ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U1	Morning hurrah, ladies and gentlemen. What a great job we've had since we broke up at 5:30 this morning, and here we are again. We will begin the 10th working week Thursday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of handing over drafts and enquiries. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U2	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity by the party of the Isamaa Party. The draft amends the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity with a view to preventing excise duty increases that will take effect in April 2022 and to mitigating the economic impact on businesses and private consumers. The Ministry of Finance's spring economic forecast points out that due to the planned increase in diesel excise duty in 2022, a reduction in the declaration of diesel fuel is expected, leading to an increase of more than 6% in retail prices and a decrease in declared quantities of 2.6% compared to this year. The biggest negative impact comes from the increase in cross-border refueling. Refuelling, which was temporarily returned to Estonia, will be taken back to the neighbouring countries. It is also apparent from the forecast that trade in diesel fuel at the level of 1.2%, or 10 million litres, over the previous year, is expected to decrease to 7.9%, or 65 million litres. The transport sector has also spoken about the positive impact of reducing excise duty on diesel fuel, and the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce has also supported the extension of excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U3	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning, everyone! In connection with the corona crisis, the Estonian Conservative People's Party wishes to present a draft decision of the Riigikogu, the content of which is the formation of a scientific council that advises members of the Riigikogu. This is due to the fact that, unfortunately, the information feather created by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has not worked well for members of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu cannot be a passive spectator in resolving this crisis. Since Kaja Kallas does not communicate with the Riigikogu, of course there is an exception today, the recommendations made by the Scientific Advisory Board remain unknown to us. Unfortunately, the recommendations of the Scientific Advisory Panel have also been highly controversial. Once you are told to vaccinate with the AstraZeneca vaccine, you will be told not to vaccinate in certain age groups. That is why we are presenting this draft, so that two groups of scientists can compare their conclusions and find the optimal solution for getting out of this crisis. The difference from the scientific council is that each political group of the Riigikogu can submit at least two persons to the scientific council, using, where possible, epidemiologists who are absolutely not present in the current scientific council. It is also important that the sessions of the scientific council that advises the Riigikogu are recorded in the minutes and that they must be available to the public. I would ask the Riigikogu to adopt the draft submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U5	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U6	I signed up for the first question on the statement by the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U7	I'm sorry! We haven't gotten there yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U8	. . . , to be tough and crap.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U9	All right. In that case, there will be no further drafts or referrals. I have adopted two drafts on behalf of the Bureau and the Bureau will decide on their future procedure in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Let's go to the messages. Today, a meeting of the global Estonian Support Group will be held, convened by Imre Sooäär. All members of the Riigikogu who wish to join this support group please contact Imre Sooääre. Now we're going to the presence check. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U10	90 members of the Riigikogu have registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U11	Let's move on to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the political statement by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas on the plan to organise social life in the context of the spread of the Corona virus. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, please! Oh, I'm sorry, I have to introduce our procedure first. First of all, the Prime Minister will be able to make a political statement lasting up to 15 minutes. Next, each member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask the Prime Minister an oral question. Following this, there will be negotiations involving political group representatives with speeches. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U12	Honourable Riigikogu! We've been living with coronavir for over a year now. This unexpected journey has united society in the fight against an invisible enemy, but it has also brought many challenges and new challenges: how to protect the lives and health of the most vulnerable, how to ensure the resilience of the health care system and quality education for children, how to organise everyday life and how to ensure the functioning of the economy in a situation where we need to reject a new and relatively unknown virus for mankind. This challenge was suddenly faced by the whole world. Today we have come to know this insidious virus, and we know that the virus is not going anywhere. We need to learn to live with this virus. I believe that we are all tired of locking and unlocking society, of constantly discussing restrictions. We have enough science-based knowledge and practical experience to know: it is possible to control and control the spread of this virus if we agree, as a society, on specific rules that we share. This way we can keep Estonia's life and economy functioning and open. Today, I will present you with a White Paper plan on how to organise social life in the context of the spread of the Corona virus, for your consideration and reflection. This opens up a broader plan for you. I plan on how we can continue to function and become stronger as a society in the context of the corona virus, and on proposals on how the state, every person, organization and company can act to reduce the risk. This is a big picture that we're finally going to draw together. We want to get to a situation where everyone knows how to behave when the threat level rises, so that the threat level does not rise to red. By creating rules, we do not want to create a situation where the government is placing fundamental conditions on people, businesses and organisations from above. On the contrary, we want to involve the whole of society so that everyone and everyone can feel their role and responsibility in reducing the spread of the virus. We would like all residents of Estonia and the umbrella organisations and companies operating here to be able to think along and contribute for their part with constructive ideas and proposals on how to act together in a sectoral way so that the spread of the virus does not get out of hand. Because no one wants their institution, their company, their organization to be shut down, or the whole area to be shut down. Everyone's tired of restrictions. We are therefore launching a major debate process so that all sectors affected by the restrictions so far can propose their own proposals for solutions that each sector, each organisation, can do to reduce the risk of the virus. So together we take an important step to avoid the need to lock down society in the future and to keep Estonia's life, Estonian economy, Estonian people. To assess the situation, we are introducing a four-level risk system: green, yellow, orange, red. They represent a low, medium, high and very high level of risk respectively. For each level of risk, the activities that each person, organisation and country can contribute to limiting the spread of the coronavirus are described. Sectoral agreements for self-regulation are also added. Thus, in the future, our life in the conditions of the spread of the corona virus could function in such a way that the government, together with the Scientific Advisory Panel, discusses and decides on raising the level of danger when the situation has got worse, or on lowering the level of danger when the situation has improved, and everyone knows which behaviours should be guided by the corresponding level of danger. You will find in this plan a new, practical and easy-to-use concept for organising life in Estonia. And you will also find in this plan the sincere will to listen and involve society as a whole in the drafting of rules concerning our lives. However, what you do not find in this plan is specific numbers. Why can't the numbers that the government's monitoring when calculating threat levels be written right here in this plan? The answer is simple. This year's corona has taught us that there are many indicators to consider and that they are constantly changing with developments in the situation. What we considered to be a very high, or red, level of risk last spring seems to be a low, or green, level of risk today. I would remind you that we discussed the announcement of an emergency situation in the Riigikogu in a situation where we had 16 infected, and the state of emergency was announced when there were 27 infected all over Estonia. How, then, does the government assess the level of danger in a constantly changing situation? The measuring instruments used to assess the level of danger are fully available and have been made public today. At the same time, it is important to leave room for flexibility so that, as circumstances change, for example, if a new strain of virus emerges that is not subject to vaccination, we can also adapt these measures to the circumstances. We also want society to be able to return as soon as possible to a normal situation where not everyone has to follow the finger in numbers so that these numbers are not to be monitored by the media with anxiety. It is the government that is managing the crisis. Therefore, these meters are not a fixed part of the White Paper. However, the metrics must certainly be available to the public and to the public at all times. Good Riigikogu! In addition, you will find in the document both the long-term and short-term planned activities of the country to manage the effects of the coronavirus and strengthen society. There are a lot of substantive plans, I can't mention everything here, you can get acquainted with them and contribute. However, what I would like to emphasise is that, since this crisis has been primarily a health crisis, the biggest bottleneck is the persistence of hospitals, and the greatest shortage is of health workers. I would therefore like to emphasise the need to create a pool of medical staff. This would work in the same way as the military reserve, from which specially trained reservists are called upon to help at the moment of crisis. So in the event of a health crisis, people in the medical pool have the tasks of crisis time and can be called upon to assist medical staff in an operational way. Whether it's medical students, doctors and nurses who have stopped practicing, paramedics in the Defence Forces or volunteers who want to help in the crisis. We should prepare the reserve at a time when we do not have the most acute crisis. We have been living with the corona crisis for over a year, and it is time to take control of the situation from the virus back to society. We propose a practical and easy-to-use solution, which will be managed by the state and will be developed as a common reflection and responsibility for society as a whole. Today we are starting these discussions with the whole of society, especially the political groups of the Riigikogu. I know that you have not been able to read this document; no one has yet been able to read this document. But that is the starting point for the discussions. I certainly intend to come to the political groups, listen to your proposals, to your opinions and to take them into account in the final document. Discussions are only just beginning. I count on your active reflection and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U13	Thank you. There are also questions for the Prime Minister. Since Urmas Reinsalu wrote down his question before the tab was started, he's out of this list, but I'm still the first to give the floor to the quickest questioner. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U14	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! Very appropriate initiative. A very appropriate and welcome initiative to come up with such a plan. But unfortunately, your report contained nothing about this plan and plan. I will give you the opportunity to present this plan in essence, which is what it is about, because otherwise it will be very difficult to have a debate in Parliament if the report does not have any substance at the moment. My question concerns the most acute issue, the communicative risk associated with the AstraZeneca vaccine. As of today, do people under 60 years of age receive the first injection of the AstraZeneca vaccine or do they not inject it? The public communication has made a lot of people uninquiring. What is the position of the government that is leading the crisis on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U15	First of all, like I said, in 15 minutes, I'm not going to rewrite this document. And the idea of today's political statement is not to present this document in detail, but to open a discussion. We can hold these discussions once all of you are familiar with this document. As I said, there are levels of risk that have been proposed here, but they should actually come from different parts of society. What do I mean? I mean, we know all the organisations that are always under discussion with these restrictions. You've been in the government yourself, you know exactly. Catering establishments, shopping centres, museums, entertainment facilities, etc. It has now been the case that the government imposes restrictions, but people-companies are already accustomed to them or have gone through this whole scheme, and they have a vision of what they themselves could do to prevent the virus from spreading and that they should not go to the next level of danger, or red, where the government is really starting to set rules from above. But, as I said, we can talk about this in more detail when we have these discussions and you have come to know it. Your question about AstraZeneca. We are in a situation where we have a shortage of vaccines, which means we have to choose who gets the vaccine first. Our goal is to unload the hospital network. When we look at the numbers that most people suffer from this disease very seriously and get hospitalised and even die, they are older people, they are people over 70 and over 60 years old. Therefore, at the moment of our vaccination, the focus is on vaccinating people over 60 years of age to increase the level of vaccination among them. Therefore, all that concerns AstraZeneca, since these recommendations have been to use AstraZeneca in people over 60 years of age, we can use all of this vaccine. What is one lesson? The lesson is that older people need a more personal approach and have a very trusting relationship with their family doctor. Maybe they want to talk to a family doctor. Therefore, these vaccines go mainly to family doctors who give the elderly enough time to register, come and receive this vaccine injection. So right now we have vaccination on the agenda of the cabinet, we are discussing all the problems that have arisen with both AstraZeneca and the arrangements for vaccination, and then we can come with more specific messages. But it seems to me that nothing will change in this respect, 60+ we need to vaccinate and that AstraZeneca can also be used on them on the recommendation of the Estonian Committee on Immunoprophylaxis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U16	We have a procedural question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U17	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your answer to the Prime Minister. But the question was, what are the guidelines in the country's crisis, whether or not people under the age of 60 will be vaccinated today? Your answer is understandable that you are discussing it, but the question is whether any decisions have been made. The media says that vaccination has been stopped for people under 60 years of age. I don't know if that's true or not true. The question was, has anyone made such an order? But I actually have a question to the vice-chairman of the Riigikogu, referring to the procedural question. The Prime Minister referred to a plan that we have not been able to familiarise ourselves with. Has this plan been handed over to Parliament, in any way, can we ask for copies of this plan in order to work? There is a debate, and there is also a political force, I can imagine, the political groups are saying their views, and, above all, we would give feedback on the plan in this debate. Is it made available to Parliament or somewhere in the media?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U18	I have to admit, this hall has not been sent to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U19	It's been sent to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U20	I mean, we didn't create any material in this hall. I haven't looked at my mornings for us, but I haven't been able to produce this material in this hall. Let's get on with the questions. Oh, no, let's move on to procedural questions. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U21	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I don't really have a procedural question. I got kicked out of the system for a second, and since I was the next questioner, I hope you don't mind me coming back to my seat in line with a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U22	No, I won't. Go on with the question. We give our word back to Siim Pohlak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U23	...to deal with the most corona crisis. Figuratively speaking, you are driving a state ship, not in a shimmering sea, but in a storm where it is very easy to turn it sideways. The decisions taken by you and the government will depend directly on what will happen to thousands of Estonian companies and people's jobs and people's well-being over the next year. And that is why it is completely incomprehensible to me why you are doing substitution activities with traffic light and white paper, instead of actually making a decision that will help us take control of the virus and, in fact, national restrictions, i.e. corona control at the borders of Estonia, will make sense. Just as it was last spring, and as many other European and world countries do. For example, requiring negative test results from entrants and applying quarantine until the retest has been obtained. If you look around Europe and the world, the countries that have kept what is happening at their borders strictly under control, with the lowest number of infections and the lowest restrictions. Israel, for example, has already vaccinated a large part of its population, but continues to keep very strict corona control at its borders, as advised by scientists...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U24	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U25	. . . Because there are doubts about new viral strains that some of them are capable of infecting people despite vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U26	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U27	So my question is, why don't you start with the most important thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U28	Thank you. We are dealing with both restrictions and how society can best function in a situation where the virus does not disappear. Now, your question concerns the spread of the virus across borders. I may be wrong about exact numbers, but I'm not wrong about sizes. Last week there were more than 5,500 new viral cases from Estonia and 127 introduced cases, or it was 128. This means that the virus will spread to us in Estonia. What did we do? We changed the decision of the EKRE, the Centre Party and the Government of the Isamaa to make a Baltic bubble, where people can move freely without an isolation obligation, without a test requirement, across the Baltic countries from Finland and neighbouring countries. We changed it. Now there are similar requirements everywhere, no matter where you cross the border. So this situation has improved much better than your government on the borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U29	We have another procedural question from Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U30	Thank you. In the Baltic bubble, however, this principle applied to the virus as well as to the high level of the virus, that it is a test obligation to get out of quarantine. This reference is simply in the interest of the protocol, so that there is no false information. I think that the Baltic bubble was a valuable thing and it is further and that such solutions must be found. But I still have a question about this report. The Prime Minister actually said and I suppose so is that there is a presentation. Is there any way that we can have this report at our disposal, as an official document distributed in this Chamber? After all, the most central issue today is the debate on this presentation. This initiative is very useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U31	I made sure that during our conversation, all of us have received the document we're talking about today in our mailbox. We will be able to read it diligently during this work. Eduard Odinets has a procedural question, please! [System] indicates that there is a procedure, but I can also... [[In the diner.]] Well, it's me. But please, there's a question, yes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U32	Thank you. We have a very, very confusing start today. Some people can ask three questions already, some say they threw it out, and some don't want the procedure, but they say it's the procedure. But my question to the Prime Minister. Thank you for that review. And the white book got to us a few minutes ago with an e-mail, thanks for that, too! But my question is, what happens if we all start coming out of this crisis and most of us get vaccinated and life starts to be like good luck, but not to the end. Some will still not be vaccinated. There is quite a lot of talk in Estonia and in other parts of the world that additional rights and freedoms could be granted to those who have been vaccinated. For example, the owner can decide who to allow in a restaurant he doesn't. And you yourself have also indicated that the state will not intervene in the way the private sector imposes such requirements. But in such a situation, how can equal treatment be guaranteed? Is the person whose family physician was better and faster when ordering the vaccine privileged than the person whose family doctor has not been able to vaccinate his patients?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U33	Thank you. Certainly, vaccination certificates, which give more rights, should not apply if not all people have access to vaccines. We certainly cannot create such a situation. Why are you currently developing a vaccination certificate where you can prove that you have a negative test, that you have had a virus, or that you have been vaccinated? Because this is being asked, for example, at border crossings and in different places where this may be necessary later. I think it is important that we are already working on this development, despite the fact that not all people have been vaccinated yet. But what I have also commented on is that if you look at these discussions around the world, then indeed, for example, if a catering establishment does not want it to go to jail, then it can itself lay down rules, such as that all people have to prove whether they are [choronanegative] or not. I don't see how you can tell the private sector that you have to take everything. In fact, we still have freedom of contract and we can't impose on whom you enter into a customer relationship with whom you don't do it. It is still the case that the conditions imposed by the private sector are not controlled by the state. The state controls what it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U34	Thank you. Yeah, it really was that we showed one picture, and the big board showed the other one. Maybe the machine gets tired too. Next up, Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U35	[[Remote connection]] Hello! First of all, I wish the Prime Minister strength and strength in this difficult situation. And procedural questions to Reinsalu's friend: I would like to ask why he didn't draw up a normal vaccination program during his government presence, and left it all to prepare the vaccination process. But the question for the Prime Minister is that one of the most important components of the removal from the restrictions is certainly vaccination. Especially, as the Prime Minister said, the vaccination of the elderly. Currently, vaccination rates in the 80+ age group are very, very low in Estonia. Compared, we have about 45%, in Finland and Sweden 90%. What is the prime minister's estimate of how many weeks from now we will have reached a high level of vaccination, as is the case in this age group in the Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U36	Thank you. Our goal now is to vaccinate 60+ people. If our overall objective is that, at least by the end of the summer, we have vaccinated 70% of the adult population, then with the vaccination of the elderly, we would like to move forward faster. The problem is we don't have enough vaccines. We will also miss 11000 doses of vaccine next week, which in turn will lead to a difficult situation. So what are we going to do about the vaccination of the elderly? How Can I Get Older? From this weekend, we learned that older people need more time to prepare. I had a very good meeting yesterday with family doctors, where they described the situation where it is for the elderly to have the day he comes to get vaccinated, and he needs to know for a long time about it, and he needs to have the trust that he has with the family doctor or family nurse. He wants to ask questions. As a result, family doctors may have more access to them. What does that mean now? This will result in a certain reduction in the rate of vaccination. We have this situation every week where vaccines arrive in Estonia on Wednesday, Thursday, which means that they will be distributed on Friday. Which means that if the family doctors who are supposed to vaccinate these elderly people do not work on the weekend, there is a great deal of frustration in society because everyone sees the numbers of vaccines in stock. Why don't we give these vaccines to young people who are ready to come on a five-minute notice? But because we want to get the elderly out of this risk. If we look at those people who get hospitalized because of COVID, they're over 60-year-olds. And if we look at those who have been hospitalized because of the COVID, the mortality rate among people over 70 years of age is over 81%. True, this percentage has decreased compared to spring, but it is still very, very high. We must therefore compromise there so that we can get older family doctors, we can get them vaccinated. But this could mean you're gonna see those doses standing on the weekend until they're sent out to the family doctors on Monday. What is important is perhaps that, although we are losing a bit at the rate of vaccination, we will get the older ones vaccinated, and hopefully by May, we will get 70% of those older people who wish to be vaccinated have been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U37	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U38	Thank you for the floor. This launch today, indeed, sorry, has been a bit lame in terms of the administration of the Riigikogu, but I also need to criticise the Prime Minister a little bit. In itself, I am very sympathetic, as I said yesterday, to your White Paper plan. But the fact that it arrives to us when your report is already underway, a 27-page document, does not really give us a chance to talk about this document. Of course, these issues are up anyway, and I'll be right there. When we get to a phase where we can start relaxing the restrictions and increasing the number of contacts, that means that the risks of spreading the disease will inevitably increase. For the third wave not to come, or for the infection to spread as little as possible when it does, there is one very good measure that the Social Democrats have talked about for a long time. And that is urgent, because there is an additional budget debate going on. That's compensation for sick days. Because otherwise people will be billed for being corona sick or in close contact and not going to work up to 40% of their salary if there are successive cases. In our meeting, you promised to consider introducing it. Can you assure us that it is still under discussion? Are we going to find out more about this from you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U39	Thank you. We do not support compensation for the first day of sickness.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U40	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U41	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Prime Minister! The concern is how these old - age people get to a family doctor, especially in rural areas. There is also one possibility that many would probably use, for example, that a child or granddaughter would come from Tallinn to give vaccination to a family doctor. But if we don't know, since the vaccines arrive exactly, it doesn't allow us to plan everything in advance. The question now is why the country has not yet organised transport so that, for example, a lack of mobility or simply a high age would not be an obstacle to vaccination. After all, it has been said... why, for example, has the state not paid additional vaccinations to family doctors for home visits? [[The connection's breaking up.]] What solution do you see against this injustice? Comment also: this is how we will continue to vaccinate these elderly people if we do not try to reach everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U42	Thank you. First of all, I wanted to say, in answer to the previous question, that the Prime Minister will make a political statement even when the national budget is handed over. It has not been introduced to the Riigikogu before, but it is precisely with this political statement that this budget will come. It is exactly the same with this document: these discussions are starting and I am counting on your full cooperation here. Returning to Heljo Pikhof's question, indeed, how the elderly reach the family doctors. One big thing we can all do: we all have an elderly relative, a neighbour or a workmate who may not have been vaccinated yet, we will help him to vaccinate. What can local authorities do? They can organise vaccinations with family doctors near people, on the initiative of the local government. Here is a good example of Rapla, when vaccinations were carried out at the Rapla Culture House, the elderly knew about it, came to one place, and the vaccination went very well in this age group. Let us look at the solutions that, if there is an elderly person who cannot move, how does the vaccine get to him if he wants it? These solutions are different and need to be further addressed. We are discussing this whole arrangement this afternoon, how to get to them, so we will be giving more precise answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U43	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'm glad you met with the family doctors last night. But you could have listened to the family doctors earlier, and listened to the communication that the elderly have been told to stay at home, and wait for your family doctor to call. Family doctors said that they would have taken it easy with the elderly. By sending rain radio two days ago, you argued that 80+ vaccination is a priority in terms of the need for hospital care, claiming that the risk is spread more evenly from 50+. According to estimates by Academic Fischer, the risk of 50-year-olds entering hospital in Estonia is close to 5%, whereas the 80+ age group has 45%, and the difference is nine times. My question is: what is the basis for your claim that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U45	Thank you. I have always said that there is an increasing risk in the 60+ age group. Unfortunately, I didn't know today when I came to tell you about the White Paper that all the questions are about vaccination. I would have had these materials with me, just like they were with me in briefing yesterday. I'm not going to argue with that at all. 60+, 70+, 80+ are the ones to whom this virus is dangerous. What I said about the 80+ people, the table was that it's more dangerous for them to get into hospital with COVID than it is for the 50-year-olds, and just in the sense that it could be fatal for them. But I agree with you that equally problematic are 60+, 70+ and 80+, and that is why we are organising vaccination so that we can vaccinate people from the age of 60.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U46	Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U47	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Is it known to the board of the Riigikogu that the Prime Minister did not receive a letter from the Social Democratic Party Group from Monday that we would really like to discuss precisely the issues of vaccination arrangements that have failed in the brush? He has not prepared today to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U48	I honestly admit that the correspondence between the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Prime Minister is not a matter for the Board of the Riigikogu. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U49	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! So we're in one information room: there's your cover letter in the file sent to us, but then there's a file that doesn't open. And I'm reading in the media that this is about the government coming out with a traffic light plan to contain the corona outbreak. You're talking about the white book. What document are we really talking about? And here's my question: I got one of those assholes already in AstraZeneca, obviously, I get it, I don't get another one, but in which country would the members of the Riigikogu get this other one? 'Cause obviously they don't make me try Pfizer today, AstraZeneca tomorrow. I wouldn't want that kind of test. And I say in advance that if this document is called "The White Book," I am not going to apologize.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U50	Thank you. The Immunoprophylaxis Commission has said that all under 60 who have received the first injection will receive a second injection. That's what they've been saying. That all the side effects of AstraZeneca that occur are caused by the first injection. If you do not experience any dangerous side effects with your first injection, you will not get another injection. Either way, it's going to go on. If you are talking about this recommendation from the Committee on Immunoprophylaxis, they are now saying that more than 60 people would rather use this vaccine, but the second injection will definitely come. As for your reference to the White Paper and the traffic light, the White Paper contains a traffic light, i.e. the different levels of danger, which are indicated in different colours. And when the level of danger rises to the next level, we know how people have to behave in this regard. So there is no contradiction here. One is included in the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U51	We've had some procedural questions. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U52	However, as a result of the President's reply to Mr Ossinovski's last procedural question, I must make it clear that the Executive Board of the Riigikogu is aware of this correspondence. On Monday, we discussed this topic in this Chamber when the sitting was chaired by the President of the Riigikogu, who confirmed that, following a proposal from the Social Democrats, he has in turn been in contact with the Prime Minister on behalf of the governing board of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister is in possession of this information. In the media we later read that, in addition to other things, the Prime Minister said that he had nothing to say to the Riigikogu. It is today. For the members of the Riigikogu's board, the Riigikogu's board is aware of this correspondent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U53	Yeah, of course we're aware, but we don't mediate it, that's what I meant. Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U54	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I really do have a procedural question. I will now look at the added material, which has been the subject of a great deal of discussion here, and which we have now received during the Prime Minister's presentation. I have a question as to whether the correct material has been added. I read in this text that the State Chancellery will submit to the Government of the Republic for approval. Did we now receive material intended for the Government of the Republic and which has not yet been examined? Or do we still have the material available somewhere that the Government of the Republic will present to the Riigikogu? Please specify whether we have the right material and whether it has been submitted to the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U55	Thank you very much. It's very difficult for me to work on these documents and to know the details. As far as I am concerned, we received material by e-mail during today's sitting, which is also being discussed here. What's the message or what's written in it, I haven't been able to see it. But we hope that we can still get the correct materials. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U56	Thank you! I understand that the ambassadors are treated differently: some receive this letter, which is for the government, I received here a letter covering the Prime Minister, which is for members of the Riigikogu. But what I'm trying to say is there's another file with this, a very suspicious extension. I've been trusting and clicking on it twice, I hope there's no security risk. But this file won't open. Looks like it's so white it won't even open. Although the material I retrieved is actually dark blue. Is there now a plan to supplement the traffic light with, for example, blue and white? And given that black is white, we could make a blue black and white traffic light.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U57	Thank you. This plan must be complemented by the one who has drawn up the plan and presented the plan. That's all I can say. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U58	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! First of all, I note that Urmas Reinsalu's procedural questions at the beginning were perfectly understandable, this interest in the material, as it should have arrived at the Riigikogu a year ago. But thank you for bringing it to the hall. My question is the follow-up to the question of Eduard Odines. We will see what happens when each vaccinator decides who to vaccinate, or when each minister decides what restrictions he wants in his area of administration. So the fact that every restaurant or cafe or sports centre itself decides who it allows for the service is, in my opinion, very risky. With regard to accessibility, we have very clear commitments and agreements on service and non-discrimination. How can you mitigate these risks so that a person, depending on the activity of his family doctor or the level of awareness, is not deprived of essential services?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U59	Thank you. Of course, it is at national level that all people must be treated equally. Since we do not have a compulsory vaccination, but a voluntary vaccination, we must act accordingly. I was referring to the fact that, if life goes on, we cannot rule out the private sector starting to draw these lines on its own premises, where they have the freedom to decide on certain conditions. Of course, we need to ensure that the Constitution is protected and that no one is discriminated against, that accessibility is protected. It's all set by the rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U60	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U61	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good Prime Minister! In the morning, the Minister of Finance presented the situation in which economic growth would return to pre-restrictive times by the end of the year, and also spoke about the limitation index and its relation to growth. But he said it all depends on how successful the vaccination is. But vaccination actually limps both legs or as many as he has feet. And the signals are cacophonic. Even if your beloved coalition partner, the leader of the party, unexpectedly refused vaccination. In short, the signals are very, very contradictory and people's suspicions are very high. How are those connections anyway? And do you share the optimism of Mrs. Pentus-Roslim dose that everything will work out and economic growth will return if vaccination goes well?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U62	Thank you. The economic forecast has been made by forecasters, which is not directly changed by the government. But it is clear that if most people can be vaccinated, society can be kept open, we do not have those sectors that lose their income because of restrictions. It is therefore logical that the economy will do better if it is open and functioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U63	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U64	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Yesterday you said in this Chamber when we were debating responsibility that you were a lawyer, and you have emphasised this before. Now I'm addressing you as a lawyer. I have received AstraZeneca's primary vaccine based on the information provided by the country, and in full knowledge that it is safe for people my age, or at that time it was information that 65+ is the one you can't do. However, it has now become apparent that I am under 55 years of age and a woman in the highest risk group at all. My second round of vaccines is about to come, but the conflicting messages from the country are continuing. The country says that vaccination with AstraZeneca will be stopped. However, Lutsar, the head of the Scientific Advisory Board, recommends that this process be completed. I don't even know what I'm being recommended here anymore. And I'm asking. You're not a medic, so you can't give me health advice, as head of government, your messages have been as confusing as my country. But now tell me as a lawyer: if I have approached you as a client, having received health damage, for example, from a risk group, then who are we going to bring an action and apply responsibility and who will ultimately compensate me for the damage caused by unfair information?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U65	Thank you. There will be no damage to your health from unfair information. Possible health damage occurs from different medicines if they have side effects. I also stress that I am not a medical officer, but the immunoprophylaxis expert committee, who has made these recommendations, has said that if you have a first dose of vaccine, it has had side effects, or it has not had side effects, but it has been fine, then another injection will be given. In this sense, whoever is responsible comes from the Product Safety Act. After all, the functioning of the medical system is that health care providers provide you with recommendations as to whether it is suitable for you or not. And I advise everyone to listen to their family doctor who tells you what to do or not to do. It's not that what fits and doesn't fit, says some kind of political immunology. For that, we have experts who evaluate the effects of medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U66	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U67	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister Kaja! I dare say that I have never been as confused as I am now on this subject of vaccination before. And not just me, but I think the whole people of Estonia. Good Prime Minister, you are the leader of this crisis. And please, give the people of Estonia a clear message about what is going on with this vaccination. What about AstraZeneca? How do you vaccinate it? Take this step like you've done with this white book that we really just got a few minutes ago. Let the people of Estonia know about vaccination and take this responsibility! And take responsibility for those words!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U68	Thank you. The confusion with the AstraZeneca vaccine is not only in Estonia, but also throughout Europe and Great Britain. This is also the case with the European Medicines Agency, which gave its guidance on the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine yesterday. Now, what are we gonna do? We vaccinate people over 60 years of age. They have been advised to use both AstraZeneca and all other vaccines. Why are we doing this? We do this because we have a shortage of vaccines, not enough for everyone. This means that right now we need to focus on bringing the medical system out of pressure. The hardest people get sick are 60+, 70+, 80+, and that's why we have to protect them. And we're working on getting these people vaccinated. This is now the main focus of these coming weeks so that we can get the majority of the elderly vaccinated, then we can move to other age groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U69	Urmas Reinsalu is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U70	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! I think that Parliament needs clarification in terms of the accuracy and purpose of the documents that have been submitted to us. With the signature of the Prime Minister, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has assumed that, under your orders, he has forwarded to us a document bearing the Head of the Government of the Republic. As far as I know, this document has not, in fact, been discussed and endorsed by the government at its meeting. Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, what status has the document now been presented to us? Is this a government document? Is that the Prime Minister's document? I think we need to define this. If we have any kind of plan, we will get to the content in the discussions, but what status does this document have at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U71	Thank you. I don't have a good answer for that. I can simply say that this document has come to us from the State Chancellery via e-mail as it has been printed out here. Indeed, there is a vaguely addressed: good readers. Whether this good reader is a member of the Riigikogu or a member of the government or a public cannot answer. And the introduction does indeed begin with a sentence: The State Chancellery will then submit a document with that name to the Government of the Republic. I guess we've actually had some sort of compilation here in a hurry, and we'll discuss it. Urmas Reinsalu continues to be a procedural matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U72	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U73	Yeah. The Prime Minister wants to explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U74	Yes, thank you! But my question is, if I may, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U75	This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U76	. . . , that to clarify this procedural issue, I think, it is most appropriate to refer it to the Prime Minister. Because indeed, the document at our disposal is a paper sent to the government, but the government is in another house. The question now is whether the Prime Minister is presenting the document on behalf of the government or whether it is, as the Prime Minister, a vision of the leader himself in the crisis, how to resolve the issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U77	Yeah. The Prime Minister wanted to explain this. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U78	Yeah. As I said in my speech, it is our wish to open a discussion where both the political groups of the Riigikogu and various organisations outside the Riigikogu, companies, can contribute to what should be these possible codes of conduct. Maybe the government hasn't discussed it, because right now we're opening this discussion to get input into it. There is therefore absolutely no contradiction here. After all, your wish is to be with you constantly and I want to involve the Riigikogu. It is our good will to hold this discussion precisely in order for the whole of society to come along with it. Why, for example, is it in Finland that people abide by the rules? Because it's a social agreement, everyone understands that they're part of it. We want the same situation so that people feel that they are part of the creation of these rules. Just as in the case of the transfer of the state budget or any such political statements, it is not the content that we are discussing here today. We can open it with you once you've read it and we can listen to your input. So, yes, it is a document from the State Chancellery to be submitted to the government for approval, once we have received this input from all of you and we will go on with it. So for confirmation, it's still going to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U79	In the meantime, I would like to point out that our item on the agenda is a political statement by the Prime Minister and its extension is 'the social life plan under the conditions of the spread of the Corona virus'. I guess that's the plan we're discussing. Mart Helme has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U80	Yes, thank you! I have a procedural question. Shouldn't this plan first be submitted to the Riigikogu and the political groups of the Riigikogu should have gone through it and only then come to this large hall to discuss it? There is now a situation in which there really cannot be any discussion, because we have not been able to familiarise ourselves with this basic school workbook, nor can we take any views. And everything we've been told in advance here is literally a mist.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U81	This document has, as a matter of procedure, already reached the political groups. That's all I can say. Urmas Reinsalu is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U82	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I'm not as critical as a questioner. I think this initiative in the current crisis deserves recognition. But the question, of course, is that this document does not contain a substantive agenda. A substantive agenda, which is the government's approach to how we emerge from the crisis. This is the thing that the Estonian people are actually expecting an answer to today. My question is to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Since the Prime Minister spoke in our form, we will present this document, what does this form mean? Is this a document discussed by the Government of the Republic? Is this the government's approach to how to emerge from the crisis with the know-how available to the government, or has it not been decided by the government? However, I would like to understand, Mr Vice-President of the Riigikogu, the legal status of this document. Is this a document presented by the government to Parliament, just as things are handed over to Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U83	It's not from the government. This is from the Prime Minister to members of the Riigikogu. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U84	Thank you. I, too, like my good colleague Urmas, think that a very, very necessary document, a very necessary debate. But as the Prime Minister has said a few times that he has really sent us this document at the beginning of this item. And obviously we're not familiar with this debate here today, we haven't worked through it, we don't know what to ask about it, we don't know how to make any suggestions. And he has mentioned that it is like a state budget that will be handed over, and then a speech will be made, a political statement will be made. I have a question of where, by what date, in what form and where we send these amendments to the Commission. I hope that the Prime Minister does not mean that he will introduce it to us as a political statement, and without opening it, he will say that it has become such a wide document, I will not open it up very much, and now he is thinking that we have already been involved. What is the ongoing scenario of this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U85	Thank you. As far as I know about our Rules of Procedure, we do not have any amendments to send out on a political statement, and I cannot set any deadlines. Priit Onion has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a procedural question. I have a question, as the Prime Minister has pointed out on several occasions, that today it is the beginning of what is Parliament's format, where and because we can discuss this document in substance. When, on Monday, we discussed that the Social Democrats asked the Prime Minister to talk about vaccination, the Prime Minister did not want to come and tell us about it. Yesterday was Question Time where it was discussed. Today, we are discussing a completely different subject on which MEPs are not able to speak at the moment, because we can only begin to look at this document. When and in what format? Is it a Monday open microphone or is it some other format because we will continue to discuss this document?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U87	Thank you. I think this is a question for the Board of the Riigikogu. Today there is a meeting of the Riigikogu Board, we will definitely discuss it there, I am not ready to answer that question. Mart Helme also has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U88	Yeah, I do have a procedural mess, a complete schizophrenia. We are dealing with a political statement by the Prime Minister, but the document that has been put on the table tells us that it is a draft. With a bill! I do not understand whether we have a political statement, we have a draft, who is the author of the draft, which rules of procedure have been taken into account and followed by the submission of the draft. The draft is yesterday's date, today's the second date. There's "Government of the Republic" up the corner. The Government of the Republic, I don't know if they've discussed it, hasn't discussed it. This procedural confusion is now so great that it still refers to the total confusion in the government and in the Prime Minister's head as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U89	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, this is indeed a draft of the government, not a draft transferred to the Riigikogu. This means that the government will probably have to discuss it at some point before it becomes a formalised document. The Rock Hard is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U90	Thank you. One last observation. Does this mean that each political group can invite the Prime Minister to discuss this document before the Riigikogu when the political groups are ready for it? I want to point out this because the Social Democrats really proposed on Monday that the Prime Minister should come and talk about vaccination, and the Prime Minister said that this could be done during Question Time. But let it be said, the Prime Minister will also hear that we will then invite him, when the group is ready, to discuss this document here in the grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. I don't see any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U91	Thank you. Yes, it is always possible for all political groups to turn to ministers or to the government. And I guess it's like we have a political tradition here that it's either faster or slower or not at all. Urmas Reinsalu also has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U92	I think it is very important now to get this clarity in order to get all the input from Parliament as efficiently as possible, so that there is also a broad and broad legitimacy platform in the implementation of this plan. I fully share the words of the Prime Minister, who pointed out that this was a matter of cooperation between society as a whole, of social effort. This is in no way just a regulated or procedural question. But I have a question about the fact that there is no plan in this document. Plan when to open, in circumstances such as classes in schools, etc. And the question is that the political forces in Parliament are undoubtedly able to make their own proposals to this, but the question is what to propose, because there is no starting point. Will this starting point be put together and coordinated by the Parliament's Bureau if it has not come from the government? Where does this original document actually come from? Because this plan is now talking about the construction of Rail Baltic, the fight against violence, all socially important negative and positive phenomena in the light of this corona virus, but not the most important question: how the country will emerge from the restrictions so that the virus will not spread again. What is the vision of the President of the sitting, how can we organise this work in Parliament in the most effective way, so that we also have the government's vision of how to do it? Or the vision of the government comes after all the political forces have presented their vision? What could be before and why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U93	It is undoubtedly possible to go in a number of different ways. In the Riigikogu, we can also propose a decision to the government on a task. The government can always adopt its own documents, regulations, for example, which do not reach Parliament. It is also possible to find some form of cooperation in which both the political groups and the government make some kind of joint document. This document is not really a document at the moment. I would say that, like the development plan, this is for listening and our input on how we can give it, I do not see it here, but it is certainly possible to agree on it if there is good will. I have a request to the Members of the Riigikogu that we ask the Prime Minister substantive questions in the round of questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Your government has thrown various drafts into this puzzle procedure, one giving the police the right to enter the premises and carry out a search, the other, taking control of the crisis, and giving the rescuers the same rights as the police, shut your mouth with hate speech, etc. But for me, the most terrible thing is that on 31 March at 3 p.m., a public procurement has been announced for the purchase of mass riot control equipment (orientally up to 60 sets), protective helmets (orientally up to 60 pieces), protective shields (orientally up to 90 pieces) and ballistic protective helmets (orientally 70 pieces). My question is: why, in the context of the corona crisis, do we need equipment to control riots?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U95	Thank you. It's not like it's in a coronal crisis. You have to ask the Minister responsible for this; these procurements are probably for other reasons. But it would be interesting to see inside your head.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U96	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U97	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, manager. Good, Prime Minister! I am pleased that you have tried to deal with the organisation of society and the establishment of a major plan in the health crisis. Unfortunately, I have not been able to familiarise myself with this White Paper, but when you presented the White Paper today in "Hellovision," you said that the idea of the White Paper is that the whole society, or decision-making, should not only be subject to government orders and prohibitions. You also said, among other things, that it is like raising children. You can say I'm your mother and that you have to do this, but the kid throws himself on the floor. How am I supposed to understand what I'm saying now? (b) the position of the government and its leading prime minister is that society, or the Parliament to which the White Paper is intended, is a child who is stubborn and wallows on the floor;
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U98	Thank you. I also wanted to say, in response to previous procedural questions, that it was my good will to come here today with a political statement and it is my good will to involve various political groups in the Riigikogu. Today's idea was to open a discussion. It seems to me that for several weeks I've always heard how you always want to debate, and now it turns out that it should be the government that does it. The government does. But what we wanted with this is that we're asking for input before we make that final decision. This is not a limitation plan. It's a social plan by the time we still have the virus. It's longer than we're dealing with mitigation. Now, coming to this question, what I want to say is that it is easier for people to follow the rules if they are themselves in the process of creating these rules, that they understand their content and actually offer them themselves. The virus spreads from person to person. It spreads when people are in contact with each other. And they come into contact with different establishments, businesses, I don't know, entertainment centers, theatres, etc. And that is why it is important that all these organisations are on board in order to establish these rules. In my opinion, it would be ideal if people were not to be alarmed about the numbers that the press has to monitor every day to see if this now means whether it means that. There's a lot of these numbers, the numbers that we're making our decisions about, we've made public. But the point is, man only knows that the level of danger is green right now. That means I don't have to worry. Or the level of danger has gone yellow, which means I have to take additional measures. Or that the level of danger is orange, which means that we must do everything we can to ensure that the level of danger does not turn red, where the government again forbids something. It's cooperation between society. And I'm really sorry if this goodwill statement still doesn't find your support to discuss it with each other. My proposal has been that I myself come to all the political groups to discuss this issue. If the members of the Riigikogu wish to invite the Prime Minister before the Riigikogu, this is the format of enquiries, and this can also be taken into account in the PM's work programme, so these enquiries will be answered on Monday. I come to answer your specific questions on Mondays, as prescribed by the court and order. Currently, members of the Riigikogu have submitted one inquiry. One question! So, what do you want me to answer? And looking at the fact that Urmas Reinsalu is already on this list for the seventh time, I ask how the Riigikogu works when we agreed with the Riigikogu's management that I will come with a political statement and I will also allow questions. That's not normal. For example, when presenting the state budget, the Prime Minister comes with a political statement and no one can ask questions. This document has not been introduced; no one can ask questions. A political statement, all of you! I thought you wanted to ask questions, and I promised you those questions. But that means, since time is pressing, vaccination needs to be dealt with, that everyone has one question. Now one member of the Riigikogu has seven questions! It is not exactly what we agreed with the Riigikogu Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U99	But this seventh question is for the head of the Riigikogu today. Urmas Reinsalu is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U100	Thank you. I do give credit to the Prime Minister. And I think that the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu actually points out that there is nothing to be criticised about the fact that the Prime Minister came before Parliament and has a dialogue with Parliament. It's more of a dead end than a dead end. The question is that I have a procedural question, because the Prime Minister rightly referred to the fact that a question concerning vaccination is pending. I had the honour of handing over this question on Monday, but we have a very long time to answer questions on 21 working days. Could the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu propose that this question be answered by the Prime Minister on Monday of the next working week? The Prime Minister himself has also pointed out that this is, in fact, a very inflexible time to answer the questions that have been asked. Social problems and crisis are actually rolling in real time. Would the vice-chairman propose this to the government on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U101	I would point out that not 21 working days, but 21 sitting days, which is actually a much longer time. The Minister and the Riigikogu Chamber Department are always negotiating and always trying to find the earliest possible deadline. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U102	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It is not only that people follow the rules better when they have been involved in their development, but it is actually important that these decisions that are made are evidence-based and rational and easily and clearly communicatable. You answered Helmen Hunt's question, who pointed out that repeatedly the risk of hospital entry is different from that of 50 and 60-year-old 80+ age groups, in such a way that you find 60, 70 and 80-year-olds equally problematic. This is not confirmed by the data. Could you try again to answer this question on the basis of which data you are questioning the calculations of Academician Fischer? But my question concerns what you have said that 3/4 of the vaccine doses should go to the 70+ population and people with concomitant diseases. In the last nine weeks since the beginning of February, more than 50% of this target group has gone for only two weeks, with less than 50% going for the rest of the weeks. How do you explain that it's a priority, but the vaccines go elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U103	Thank you. First of all, I am not questioning Krista Fischer's calculations, I have not done so. And I absolutely agree with what Helmen Hunter said. Again, unfortunately, I don't have these numbers here today, but you know these numbers. Now on the subject of vaccination of high-risk groups and older people. There are not only elderly people at risk, but also people with comorbidities, and they may also be younger people who have received this vaccine. But really, now that we have a vaccine deficiency, we're moving on in the focus that we're vaccinateing older people. And again, I don't want to answer like that by shooting off my hip, I'm going to go over these numbers and I can tell you, but by my memory on the weekend, we still got over 80% of the target population 60+ vaccinated. But these numbers I can give you. And I can assure you that the focus is that it is these risk groups that are still vaccinated faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U104	It's still procedural. Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U105	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I think that the procedure for the debate on this serious document is important. And it is also important to know whether this document is comprehensive. I have been referred to the possibility that this document may have annexes which have not been made available to Parliament. Would the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu answer whether there are any annexes to this document or whether it is an exhaustive treatment of the subject that the Head of Government has presented? And if the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu does not have any information on this, would he be able to explain this procedural question to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U106	Thank you. We received exactly as many documents as the members of the Riigikogu have been sent, no annexes have been added. If there are any annexes, we will certainly ask them, and if the Prime Minister wishes to clarify something, he will have this opportunity now. No, I don't. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister, of course, we humbly thank your Highness that you wanted to come before us and blame it on us for the fact that you did not want to come here. We humbly thank you for this! And I would ask you not to take it so that we have some sort of sacred Echo bullying going on here. Remember how you screamed when you were in this opposition, and you bullied St. George, St. Martin. It's politics. Harden your nerves, it's politics. It's okay, you're gonna make it. However, my question specifically concerns the issue of the pandemic. You mentioned that there is a plan to create a pool of medical personnel. Good idea! But where is this reserve going to be? In Finland? Or how are the bases for this assembly going to be? What are you going to do, create some kind of register? Who will create this register, which is the deadline for the creation of this register, how much will it cost? And you already have all these details on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U108	You could have asked the same questions about the vaccination plan last summer, for example, to get exactly like this. But in answer to your question, this is a longer-term plan, to create such a reserve. We have now learned from the resolution of the health crisis that medical students, paramedics, have come to our aid. These people are all known to us, and we can generate databases. We should also create an opportunity for people to train themselves, etc. But this is the longer plan that needs to be discussed in detail. Right now, it's only in the form of an idea, and I'm not ready to answer such detailed questions right now. I'd love to, if we come here with a copy of this particular paragraph, we can discuss it, and your opinion is certainly welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U109	It's a procedure. Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U110	Thank you, Mr President. I have a problem that has already been referred to here by Urmas Reinsalu. Does our home and operating procedures lay down the conditions that are currently taking place in this Chamber? The Prime Minister has now set out a plan, a plan for the organisation of social life in the context of the spread of the corona virus, and then information was received that there were some annexes to this. I would like to remind you that in the Riigikogu, after the Prime Minister's presentation, the representatives of the political groups will also speak and talk about what is thought of this plan. Maybe we'll just make our assessment, say, about this plan, but the essence of the annexes is not known. If we give some kind of position on the plan, we will actually indirectly evaluate the annexes that we have not seen. Does the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provide that if any such plan is dealt with and the members of the Riigikogu are judged to be a complete document? Or maybe without the extras? Let the Prime Minister give a more precise explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U111	We will certainly ask about any additional documents or annexes, but we really do not have them at the moment. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U112	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Lord! I am very grateful that this is the format you have chosen, that it is possible for the ambassadors to ask. But unfortunately, I have to admit that since this document only arrived for me an hour ago, it has not come to my knowledge and do not know whether you have, because you did not introduce it. But hopefully we'll have time to discuss it. My question is about your introductory speech, where you said that you had a pleasant meeting yesterday with the representative of the Association of Family Doctors. I have seen that their chairman, Mrs Le Vallikiv, has been very critical of the vaccinations. He has said that he does not understand why private medicine centres were involved at all and how vaccines were honed and then chaos was organised there, etc. I think it would be appropriate for us to thank those private medical staff who came from their families on the weekends, during the holidays, and took care of the vaccination. And the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the state were unable to organise it is truly regrettable. Maybe you'll comment on it somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U113	Thank you. I very much agree with you that the private sector, which has come to help, must be thanked. Similarly, family doctors who regularly carry out vaccinations for the elderly must be thanked. It is also important to thank those entrepreneurs who gave the state a helping hand and made a database that allows vaccines to be distributed to family doctors according to the size of the risk groups and which allows the family doctor to follow logistically how far his vaccines are, so that he would know to call people on time. I am very, very grateful to all these people and companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U114	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U115	[[Remote connection]] I understand I'm audible and visible. I think I lost contact here. To be honest, Madam Prime Minister, society does not expect you to plan for social life. Society is still waiting for clear lines of command and the resolution of this crisis. But I have a very specific question. You're talking about vaccination as a magic wand. This new scourge is in our gate, or Brazilian strain called B1. Everyone gets sick: those who have received the vaccine, those who have had it, children, young people, middle-aged and elderly people, all of them. This virus strain is twice as contagious as the good old English strain. It is common in Sweden, since February in Sweden. It is only a matter of time before it reaches Estonia. We've got doors and windows open at the crossroads, we don't control anyone. How bad does the situation in Estonia have to go, that you finally decide to control the borders?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U116	Thank you. We changed the decision made by the governments of the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, which allowed the Baltic States and Finland to move without restrictions, as has been the case for all passengers coming from elsewhere. When we look at the strains of the virus that have come to us, such as the dangerous strain last week, the South African strain, which was detected in nine cases, four of which were introduced from Finland and five were on the spot. So fortunately, this Baltic bubble we have finished and these people are similarly subject to isolation or to a negative test.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U117	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U118	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! My question concerns when we have finished the debate on such an inclusion document, the social inclusion document, what the implementation plan could be, what it will be. We have actually talked a lot about the regional meaning, the county, the self-governing meaning, in the context of managing this crisis. Should it also provide input into the development plans of the municipalities for this transitional period, for those losses that have also occurred in the organisation of society when we talk about the educational network, we talk about everything else? How will it be implemented? Because it cannot remain a debate right here in Parliament or with social groups; it should become a real plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U119	Thank you. This real plan is linked to the spread of the virus and to their levels of risk. Here's the idea that every person finally knows what to do with one level of danger or another. All of this is a plan we have to use when we still have the virus. As I said at the beginning, what we've learned is that this virus isn't going anywhere, and we need to think about how to deal with it. Now, yes, there are short-term activities and long-term activities that we are doing to deal with these consequences. There are no specific dates here. If you read it in more detail, you will understand that many are such follow-up activities anyway. So actually, this side of the inclusion, this side of the action plan, is linked to these risk levels, the risk levels are linked to the spread of the virus, and hopefully we can arrange social life in such a way that everyone is on board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U120	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I would also like a little more clarity in this system of risk levels. On the one hand, the levels of risk are divided into four and, on the other hand, until the penultimate, or high level of risk, the aim is to avoid the need for extensive restrictions, which means that there is no possibility of introducing preventive measures until there is a very high risk. But the question is more precisely: how does this relate to the announcement of an emergency and an emergency? As we know, the government has not yet considered it necessary to declare the special situation. At the same time, from yesterday's debate here, it turned out that the emergency as such has not been specifically defined, who is declaring it and under what conditions. Let me ask you more precisely: at what point will an emergency arise from an average level of risk, a high level of risk or a very high level of risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U122	Thank you. The idea of these levels is precisely that the government does not have to impose any rules on people from above, but rather to prevent them from going to the next level, these preventive measures have already been introduced in the "social life organisation." What do I mean? Well, for example, shopping malls came up with this self-regulation that when the level of danger rises, it means that they start checking the doors for masks, not letting them in, checking how many people are in the store, taking away the Wi-Fi so they don't get any chance to hang around, etc., etc. These are self-regulation tools, which may not even be used at higher risk levels, or could at least be an option. This does not mean that there is no need for the government to discuss restrictions, but these strict restrictions, such as the lockdown of society, should still be when we have this level of danger in red. As regards the emergency situation, last spring, under the leadership of your government, we adopted a [amendment] of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, according to which this declaration of emergency is not necessary to impose these restrictions. It was your initiative, and clearly so that these things could be done more easily and easily. So, at present, the emergency situation has not been announced precisely because we can do all these restrictions without imposing an emergency situation, thanks to the fact that you yourself have taken such an initiative last spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U123	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U124	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Surely this White Paper is a very important initiative. But as we've seen and heard, there's a lot of confusion about it. You could also talk about how and by when organisations and businesses can make their own proposals in this book. But it is clear that these discussions will take quite some time before this book can be finally approved. But today the Estonian people already have one very important question, to which an answer is expected. This is whether and to what extent the restrictions will continue after 25 April. When will the government decide on this, and what are the precise criteria-meters on which this decision will be based?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U125	Thank you. As I have repeatedly said, this is the document to start the discussion just to get input. This is the input we expect by April 16. We have mapped out the organisations that are affected by these restrictions. The minister in this field communicates with them and involves these organisations, their proposals. I myself will communicate with the political groups of the Riigikogu if that is what you want to do in order to listen to your proposals. The question was about restrictions. We review the restrictions every two weeks, and on Tuesday we will again have this debate. Yeah, it's true that the infected numbers have gotten much better and the infection rate has gone down. You asked me what indicators we're looking at. These indicators, the metrics, are different. One is the number of people in hospital, the other is the number of people in intensive tertiary care, the number of people in controlled breathing and the mortality rate, whether it is in a declining trend or an upward trend, as well as knowing where people have been infected. It should be noted that although the infection rate has gone down, our level is still very high, which means that if we have 700 infected, even if these 700 infected people infect [each] less than one person, it is still very high. We will discuss these restrictions again on Tuesday. On Monday, a meeting of the Scientific Advisory Board will be held and these decisions will be prepared in cooperation with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U126	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U127	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am also no exception to the MPs, nor am I familiar with the content of this White Paper. Today I know better what Muammar Gaddafi's Green Paper contains. But my question is whether this White Paper includes this or if it doesn't, you might be able to tell me when the vaccination of the Defence Forces conscripts will begin. At the moment, it seems that there is no plan for this. Especially [it should be noted that] behind our eastern border large-scale exercises are beginning. I think our conscripts also form the front line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U128	Thank you. Once again, I stress that we are in a situation where we have a shortage of vaccines. This means that there is not enough for everyone right now. That means we have to make the decisions we're going to have to vaccinate first. At present, we are purely pursuing the purpose of the burden on the hospital network and looking at who is most likely to be seriously ill, so that they get hospitalized or even die. And these are older people. Therefore, our focus is on [directed] there to vaccinate people over 60 years of age to get them out of the risk group. And then, if we have more vaccines on the question of when we get to everyone, provided that all of these supplies of vaccines are subject to [agreements], we should be able to vaccinate from May onwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U129	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U130	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, the status of this white book here as a document in the Riigikogu and the subsequent procedure of the Riigikogu and its fate are as confusing as the messages about vaccination. But my question is simple: when can the Estonian people see the Prime Minister vaccinating himself with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the light of television cameras, even though you have suffered from [the disease]? The Estonian people want the Minister to be able to fight, and you have also criticised the President of the Riigikogu for not giving vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U131	Thank you. This is about my medical records, but I can answer that. Indeed, I suffered from this illness. There'll be antibodies when the disease passes, but I don't know how many of these antibodies I have. Today I have this antibody test where I can find out how many antibodies I have. Based on this, the family doctor will decide if I need an injection or if I don't need an injection, so we can get an answer. But I am prepared to vaccinate myself with the vaccine that the family doctor says. On 12 March, the government said that the Riigikogu and the members of the government have the AstraZeneca vaccine. I might be able to vaccinate myself with this AstraZeneca after getting acquainted with all the materials and talking to my family doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U132	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U133	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good Prime Minister, thank you very much for taking up this plan! In any case, this white book is needed. Quickly browsing, there hasn't been much time, so I can see that there are a lot of good points. One point, which is very welcome, is that we keep Estonia as open as possible, because tourism is re-starting the economy, we are already losing a billion and a half profits there. But, look at the countries of southern Europe, and especially the Spanish islands, where there are daily charter trips from Estonia, which are all full, they all demand that all those who come in have had a negative corona test, then a vaccination passport in the future. Why aren't we asking for it anyway? All kinds of new strains are coming across the border. If we had a requirement for all of us to have been made when the coronas arrived in the country, it could in any case be limited. Because the boundaries themselves should not be physically closed. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U134	Thank you. We have a requirement to take a negative test, or if you give it up, you have an obligation to be isolated when you come off the border. The problem is that we can't force, that is, we can't force anyone to take this test if a person doesn't agree to the border. Why? Because people's physical integrity is one of their fundamental rights. If we have a negative test, we can limit the entry of non-citizens into Estonia, but Estonian citizens... I'm sorry! There is no way we can prohibit the return of Estonian residents to their homes; this is against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U135	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U136	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! You have accused the previous government of keeping the Baltic bubble. We can see that Latvia has long closed its borders, as well as Finland and Lithuania. So there is no Baltic bubble anymore. I believe that you, too, should no longer criticise the previous government in this regard. My good colleague and friend Uno Kaskpeit has asked you several times about the Latvian border that Latvia is holding its border with Valga, but Estonia is only letting whom go freely from there to shops, etc. How's it going with this thing anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U137	Thank you. It is true that your government has allowed this movement across the borders of neighbouring countries to be looser than our government has now allowed. We finished this Baltic bubble, so the same rules apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U138	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! The creation of a four-stage preparedness system for all public authorities is a positive step, as well as the creation of reserves for the medical system; others need it. However, when my penguin Governor Reuben asked how this four-stage system relates to our special law regimes, where then we would need an emergency situation, it is clear here that, without an emergency situation, we will not be able to take all the measures that we would expect under very high risk, for example, to close borders. I myself see as the most dangerous scenario for the future that, just as we were unable to prevent the British strain from coming, we will not be able to prevent the arrival of the Brazilian strain and its national distribution after that. I checked Worldometer to see that 4,000 people died in Brazil the day before yesterday. This is also a very large number for this large country. We're suppressing the spread of this disease right now, but the new strain is coming in and giving us a new, third wave. Don't you see the danger here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U140	Thank you. I come to the point that an emergency is needed. There's only one more thing coming from there that isn't otherwise, and that's because you changed the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. This is that the Defence Forces can be used for more than 30 days. All other restrictions can also be made by the government in the context of this emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U141	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U142	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Prime Minister! Why are you talking so crazy around here? Latvians check the border from 1 February and Estonians going by Estonia have been given all the conditions. The test must be done, this paper is valid only for three days, and the resident of Valga or Valka. No one controls us, all the stores are full of Latvians. This is all the work you've done! That's what I've been asking you twice, isn't it? I didn't get the right answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U143	Thank you. You say the Latvians have been controlling the borders since 1 February. Just a reminder: our government took office on 26 January. If you have these reproaches on this, then these reproaches should be, above all, to the ministers of your own party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U144	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U145	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! I'm just saying that there's always been a rumor that the cases that come in are very few and they're not dangerous. It is difficult to understand whether they are placed in a jar and on a lid so that they do not, under any circumstances, spread this disease in Estonia. But I'd like to come back to communication. It has been a year, and regardless of [what] government, there has been an opportunity to analyse and adjust action. It's a normal process. I was asked to ask about migrant workers, where this place is and who this knowledgeer is, so that clear and unambiguous information is available to migrant workers, so that everyone involved in this topic can understand equally from the crossing of the border, health problems, payment of fees, etc. All of this must be clear and understandable in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U146	Thank you. I agree that everything must be clear and unambiguous. It has to be dealt with to be that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U147	We've run out of questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. Let's move on to the negotiations. It is now possible for all the representatives of the political groups to take the floor. The first to register is Erki Savisaar from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the watchers of the transfer! I am pleased to note that the increasing number of vaccinated people has had a negative impact on COVID-19 infection rates, which have started to fall rapidly, but, of course, this trend needs to be continued for several more weeks. As of this morning, nearly 237000 people have been vaccinated against COVID-19 in Estonia, more than 72000 of whom have received both doses. Thus, our good health professionals have given nearly 309000 injections of protection. The 14-day infection rate has fallen to 901 per 100000 inhabitants. By comparison, on March 19, the infection rate was a record of 1553. Perhaps in three weeks, the figure has fallen by more than 650. The number of patients in hospital care has also decreased and decreased by about 100 in recent days. We are also third to the speed of vaccination in the European Union, which is a great recognition for health authorities, protection injections for thousands of healthcare workers and for everyone who has made health-conscious choices. The rate of vaccination will increase as a significant amount of doses will be added in the near future. As we continue to do just as well, by the end of April, we are forecasting a clear improvement in the situation of the COVID-19, of course, if we take all the precautions now. I stress that we must not become careless. The situation is still very serious. As the trend continues, we will be able to gradually ease the restrictions in a few weeks' time. In order to allow for a controlled opening, it is already necessary to agree under which conditions the restrictions will be relaxed. The Centre Party is ready to ease the restrictions from the end of April if the number of COVID-19 infected and the number of corona patients in the hospital falls below the critical limit and shows a steady downward trend. As the situation in COVID-19 moves steadily in the direction of improvement, we propose that schools, shopping centres, restaurants, entertainment facilities, churches, gyms, spas and swimming pools be opened, provided that the filling capacity of the rooms is up to 50% and that all precautions are taken. Field training for groups up to 10 should also be allowed. It is already necessary to talk about the mitigation of restrictions in order to establish a sensible summer plan with target and stakeholders. It is essential to take into account the views of the Scientific Advisory Board, which advises the government, and to listen to the recommendations of sector umbrella organisations. The Centre Party considers it right that restrictions must be logical, understandable and unambiguous. According to the spring economic forecast published at the beginning of the week, Estonia's economic downturn was smaller than it feared last year, 2.9%. The decrease was twice as modest as the average in the European Union. This was the result of the flexible decisions of the government led by Jüri Ratas and now gives us a good starting position when we relaunch the economy. A similar approach to openness would make sense this spring. Estonia has the potential to take back the fall of last year already this year and reach an annual growth of 5% in the following year. The Centre Party is open to full cooperation in order to find sensible solutions together. The aim is to celebrate the Midsummer Day together without restrictions and enjoy the summer of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U149	Jevgeni Ossinovski, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U151	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U152	Good Riigikogu! Undoubtedly, the document that the Prime Minister wanted to come and tell us about himself is an important piece of paper. That we need to create a systematic plan to manage the epidemic according to the traffic lights system, we've been talking for a year. And indeed it is not the sole responsibility of today's Prime Minister that it has not been done so far. But the fact is that today we could not really talk about ourselves about this plan, because it is more the bottom of an online presentation with a logo on it and a few background phrases, but the content is not yet in it. So it is undoubtedly worth working on. However, government decisions must not only be relevant but also timely. I remember that when, under the current government, the epidemic went completely out of hand, at the beginning of February, the Prime Minister loved to talk about vaccination: vaccination is awfully important, let's not talk about restrictions, let's talk about vaccination, as long as the vaccination process is in progress. At the time, the necessary restrictions should have been decided quickly. We have now reached a situation where, with great delays and severe economic, social and health damage, we have imposed these restrictions and we have indeed, as expected and on an evidence-based basis, reduced the rates of infection. Fortunately, the situation is improving, but with vaccination, the total laptop is an excuse for expressing! This is the most critical moment in which the mistakes that have been made so far need to be resolved quickly. Why do they need to be fixed? Because the correct vaccination coverage and the organisation of vaccination are, in fact, the most important block in this very strategy of opening up society, so that we do not happen in such a way that, after we have alleviated the restrictions, the need for hospital treatment begins to grow again exponentially, and we have to shut everything down again. In order not to happen, we must use this scientific miracle called the vaccine and put this system in order in such a way that it does not happen. Okay. As a result, throughout Europe and the WHO Recommendation, the coverage of people aged 80+ is an absolute priority. Why is that? Because both the risk of hospitalisation and the risk of mortality are exponentially increasing in this age group. It is not the case, Madam Prime Minister, that the age of 60, 70 and 80 is equally problematic. It's not like that, it's a factually wrong argument. We take the risk of 60-year-old hospital needs and 80+ hospital needs: 10% in 60- to 69-year-olds, 80+ over 40%, and 1% in 60- to 69-year-olds, and almost 15% in 80+. Do you understand these orders of magnitude? That is why all countries have made an effort to achieve 80+ coverage, and the best have more than 90%, and our neighbours in the Nordic countries have more than 90%. We have 45%, one of the lowest. But what do we do well with vaccination? We've reached the silver medal this week for 50-59-year-old vaccinees, the silver medal, we've passed Malta. In this age group, the risk of mortality is close to zero and the risk of hospital entry is nine times lower than in the 80+ age group. Why is the Prime Minister talking about taking the wider picture? We have an agreed 70+ age group vaccination with 3/4 doses of vaccine. Well, those numbers don't match. First of all, of course, 70+ is really in the vaccination plan that was prepared in December under the direction of Tanel Kiige. But the guide for family doctors is well identified as the top priority of 80+. But all right, let's take that 70 plus. Three-quarters of vaccine doses should go to high-risk groups, has been repeatedly confirmed by the government. I pulled out the statistics. In the nine weeks since February, it has been two weeks that over half of the 70+ age group has gone, 57% and 51%. We're not talking about 75%, 3/4. For the remaining weeks, the number of doses that have gone under 70 has been more than half. The median number of weeks has been 38%, which has gone to the 70+ age group. We declare that older people are our absolute priority in vaccination, but the vaccine doses are all going elsewhere. It's a total mess! And this is not an academic debate. People die as a result of these decisions. If you look at mortality statistics in the last few months: 10 to 15 deaths per day and of these, let's say, an average of four is 80+ age groups. If we had vaccinated these people with 30,000 injections, we would have basically been able to prevent these deaths. That's one. Second of all, some people are asking, "What are you talking about in those 80+ old people's vaccinations, they're old anyway, you see, young people want to live life?" It's very cynical to me. The country needs to care the most about people who are the most vulnerable, those who actually sit at home in fear of death for a year, waiting for this vaccine shot, and watch the 50-year-olds get vaccinated in a storm run somewhere in a sports hall, but their family doctor hasn't. That's one. But second, once again, it is actually very important for the rest of society, so that it is this group that will receive priority vaccinations, because their coverage depends on the extent to which we can open up society, how quickly we can give the health system a break. It can be said that the social benefits of 80+ vaccination are many times greater than, for example, those who are 40 or 50 years old. Individually, there is a difference, of course, but I am talking in the context of society as a whole. We need to get this thing under control. It can't be that we have more vaccinees in the 60-69-year-old group than we have in the 80-plus group. We will be able to resolve this in a couple of weeks, these are 30,000 people who need to be covered. Let's aim for this thing, fix it, protect our most vulnerable people, give healthcare workers easy access, prevent needless deaths and human suffering. Next and last thought. This concerns the second preventive measure. Of course, when we open up society, we must ensure that we have an adequate system of preventive measures in place so that there is no third wave. It was very regrettable to hear today that the government is not fully supporting the reimbursement of sick days to patients with corona from day one. What we are talking about is that people must have their own responsibility in a situation where there is an overwhelming public interest in having coronal patients at home! How can it be assumed that a person who, in certain cases, as we have heard about real life, loses EUR 400 of his EUR 1000 income if, for example, he has been in close contact twice a month, a person who has to go to work, who is a blue-collar jobholder and who is unable to work at home, how do we expect him to stay at home and lose EUR 400 in his income? It's immoral, it shouldn't be done. Point one. And point two: it actually works against our anti-epidemic measures and those objectives that we have set. And, frankly, the ideological frames or shackles that have emerged around it are obviously not relevant here. To be honest, very weak performance from the Prime Minister. I hope he pulls himself together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U153	Thank you. I now ask Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the Isamaa Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U154	Thank you. Well done, Madam Prime Minister! Sincere recognition that you came to Parliament and gave your vision, and there is certainly nothing to fight about. When we talk about a specific matter, I expected today that we would have a plan to get rid of the restrictions, how it would happen. But let me be honest with you, this is what we didn't get. The Prime Minister said that the plan was so big it couldn't be introduced in the speech. When I read this plan, I found all the important things that are happening in society, for example, that the construction of Rail Baltic needs to be encouraged in order to develop the economy, that we have to fight violence, etc. But it was actually a propaganda document put together between the clamps, the State Chancellery adores these documents, as we know. Now, the question is what really needs to be done. What really needs to be done? Because, dear people of Estonia, this page, how we come out of these restrictions, this page is actually "Fill the Holiday!'. It's one A4 with boxes where everyone can write things. Of course, we in Parliament have a responsibility to make our proposals. But I would have assumed that [if] these gaps existed, that the government had discussed them. But the government hasn't discussed this paper. We just have one combined propaganda document. What must be done in practice? First, vaccination, of course. This loss of control in vaccination should be controlled. Today's vaccination plan says there's a steering group with a room full of people, they're responsible for it. Well, you can't handle this situation in a crowded struggle. There must be a clear authority in charge of the vaccination. And this chaos, I think, is best illustrated by this communicative mash that has arrived with the AstraZeneca vaccine. I asked the Prime Minister whether or not the first injection of this vaccine was suspended for people under 60 years of age today, as the media claims. I didn't get an answer. I suppose it's stopped, but there have been very conflicting views and, of course, people are being told not to vaccinate. I think that this chaos of mismanagement does not serve our overall goal of getting out of restrictions and saving people's lives. Second, 80+ people's vaccination. The European Union has set out a very clear task. Countries agreed: 80% of people aged over 80 must have been vaccinated within three months. During April, we must fulfil this task; we do not have an alternative. And the government must make that promise. I expect the Prime Minister to respond, and I would be pleased if the government says: yes, we will be able to do this in April. Now the restrictions. The most important thing is, in fact, first preference. I think, since it is clear that any relaxation of restrictions will lead to an increase in the rate of infection, in fact, schools must be preferred from smaller classes, that is clear. Secondly, I think that the regional approach must also be taken into account for all restrictions; it should not be feared, on the basis of [should be taken into account] indicator numbers. And since the Prime Minister did not answer my question, I submitted it to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu to see if there were any annexes to this document. Allegedly, it is, but I'm sure those extras would be important to us. In my opinion, it is important that we start implementing the indicative exit indicator model of the European Union, which has been developed in March, and on this basis we move forward. It is certainly also important to what academician Krista Fischer has called for the implementation of mass testing. Where we have a problem with testing limitations in epicenter areas, we cannot afford to relocate these tents with PCR tests. And there must certainly be an extensive introduction of rapid tests. The Isamaa Group and I proposed with an additional budget, in addition to schools, that it be applied more widely in society, but unfortunately it was not supported. However, I urge you to think about it. Testing at the borders of the course. At the moment, we do not have a universal testing obligation and I think it should be introduced. Just as it has been established by all European countries, and just as it was in the Baltic bubble, where a person had to take a test if he wanted to get out of quarantine, and so in the case of Finland. I think it needs to be implemented. During April, it is important to keep this plateau, because even though the numbers have fallen rapidly as a result of human effort and joint action, this does not mean that the virus is somehow permanently on the retreat line. It is clear that we must maintain the plateau where this virus has retreated, and then it will be possible to implement an exit plan, hopefully from the end of April. Similarly, the question is that we spoke here about the emergency situation, and the Prime Minister said that the legal status of the emergency situation only confers the right to use the army for more than 30 days. It's not like that. This is false information, dear Parliament! The legal status of an emergency also entitles the Head of Emergency Works to use staff outside the normal management scheme. And, you see, the question we had was that we spoke in the Special Committee on State Budget Control already in March, early March, when it became clear how much the burden on our hospital system is that health workers must be brought together. This method of emergency was precisely one method which was also brought to the attention of the Commission. This reserve is very reasonable in the logic that we must concentrate and implement the potential of the health professionals we also have in private health care, for people with health and care education, if there really is an overload situation. But in this situation, I would like to remind you once again, even without a legislative change, these methods are available for pooling the resources of health professionals. Let me give you an example. The problem of the need for labour law or the lack of legal opportunities has actually been highlighted by hospital drivers. Dr. Ralf Allikvee and other hospital managers made it clear that they also need to move staff from one section of the hospital to another, but the current law limits these possibilities. This is a problem and the status of emergency would certainly have solved it. In conclusion, the good Parliament, the document that has come before us, has undoubtedly its strong propaganda objective and its informative objective. Practical information about how we come out of these restrictions, what the government's vision of it is, is not at our disposal. However, I think that this call from the Prime Minister for a dialogue with the political forces of Parliament is very welcome. My suggestion would be to really convene the Riigikogu's body of elders next week, to put this model in place. How to actually draw up this exit plan, these steps will be put in place by Parliament in cooperation with the government. And in Parliament, I think it would be wise to strive for a comprehensive approach to how to do this, as a joint part, among all the political forces. Uncertainty is currently not a value. We need to fill it with active action. It is our duty to care now in this crisis that in the steps that the political forces consider reasonable, we will find a common part and formulate them. And this plan will be considered as an introductory document and we will draw up a short, clear, implemented plan. On behalf of the Fatherland Group, I assure you that we would be prepared to do this together in every way possible. We are in this crisis with the whole nation, we can do it, we must not fear decision-making. This crisis, which we have come into with the highest [infection] indicator in Europe, the highest figure in the world, shows that it is a crisis of indecision and it must not happen again. Now we have to act, now we have to act! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U155	Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by Mart Helme, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U156	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Honourable ambassadors! We have received today a blue book called white, but it is actually blue. I read here: "The social life plan under the conditions of the spread of the corona virus." And then there's the subtitle, "Let's be on the lookout." I'm always on guard, and if I'm not on guard, I'm sleeping, then my dog is on guard. We don't have a problem guarding. We have other problems. My colleague from the Social Democratic Party criticised the government for having no vaccinations for older age groups. And indeed, we now have enough vaccine in Estonia to vaccinate everyone over 80 years of age. There's no question that we don't have enough doses. The question is that we have disorder and indecision. And the fact that we have disorder and indecisiveness and that we cannot stop this disorder and indecisiveness also shows the blue book. Already what is on here, about which we had many procedural questions, shows that it is, as the previous speaker said, propaganda material. And we are now also seeing what a double standard, which rubber ruler is used to evaluate the activities of the previous government and those of the current government. If the previous government did anything wrong, the current government will do everything well. I left my phone on the table, but I was in a hurry to see what the response to what's happening here in the main media is. The response is excellent. The Prime Minister has presented us with a very nice plan with a four-color traffic light that will solve all our problems. All our problems will be solved! This is the positive, soft, silk-glove reaction of our mainstream media. But there's really no reason. I don't want to start reading this blue paper here, but the previous speaker already showed it here. Come on, it's a basic school workbook where we have to start filling gaps and demonstrating that we understand the functioning of society and human physiology and everything. Well, this isn't serious! By the way, I think the Chairman of the Riigikogu can confirm that during the previous government, I think the same people of the State Chancellery also brought us a thick piece of paper because we gave the task of developing a plan to deal with the crisis. We met briefly enough, but briefly, during the government's study session, with this paper and returned it to the desk official because it was useless, useless, propaganda-free as well. At least now it's a propaganda paper, maybe useful. It made no sense at all and, frankly, this paper does not make any sense either. I quote only one place from here: 'This is why we carry out longer-term activities: Estonia's leadership and participation in the introduction of the World Health Organization's international digital immunity certificate;... " Chancellorship! A hugely well-assembled pulpit! And that's how this whole piece of paper is crawling with this pulpit! Let's do it! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Let's do it, improve it, develop it. I lived forty years in the fertile conditions of the Soviet Union and saw this development and improvement, which ended with the collapse of the country. I have a question for the Prime Minister. I have a question for the members of the government. I have a question for the parties to the coalition. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U157	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U158	If you are unable to cope with this crisis, with the logistics of vaccination, for three months you have been in the government and you cannot cope with even 80-year-old vaccination, how will you cope if the international situation that is now getting hot becomes a war situation? How are you going to deal with this? You're not gonna make it! Leo Kunnas has written an excellent book "War 2023" with two scenarios: blue and red. Take it, we can give Madame Prime Minister this book. I'm sure Leo has enough of these copies, and I've got a bunch of them, so we can give it to all the members of the government. Read this red script! We're on our way to that red scenario right now, the country is collapsing. The country is collapsing because the unprepared is total. Logistical inability is total, indecision is total. The board of directors gave you a great opportunity, and now the kids are playing the country. There is no other way to call it. The kids are playing the country! It's sad, but it is. Instead of solving real problems, quickly, decisively shut the borders, you say that you cannot let the people of Estonia in. Are you kidding me? New Zealand, where there's zero infection... [[Makes a 0-shaped mark with his fingers.]] Oh, that's a forbidden sign, right, sorry! Zero infection! All citizens of New Zealand will be quarantined when they come from abroad, no one will tell them to come home, but they will be quarantined. It was exactly what we did in the spring. The people, the people of Estonia who came, were self-insulated. And there's nothing illegal or mysterious here. It's a matter of decision. Instead of adopting such simple solutions, quick solutions, you are restricting society and trying to bring it into the police state. All these Nets, the laws of media services and hate speech plans, it's a social muzzle. You want to rebuild the police wall so you can play the country. But we won't let him. I suggest that the Prime Minister go to this court and communicate with the people. Very instructive and very useful! Get in touch with these people! Those aren't flat countryers. These aren't Nochnoidozos. These aren't Kremlin agents. These are ordinary Estonian people, largely intelligent, in the best lifespan. This morning, I had a brief discussion with one of those who said that they had initiated an analysis of how the current government violates the Estonian Constitution, violates constitutional order, and how our respective institutions, who are required to ensure the durability of constitutional order, watch and help to violate this constitutional order. Go talk to these people, it'll be good for you. You open your eyes and maybe you'll stop playing the country and start running the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U159	Thank you. Now, I see no further wish for the political groups to speak. The Prime Minister has wished to appear in the round of negotiations. I request Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U160	Thank you for listening! I hope that we will have a fruitful discussion in the various groups. But there are some things I'd like to take care of. Firstly, Urmas Reinsalu: this is not a plan to alleviate restrictions. We didn't say it was. The restriction mitigation plan shall be separate. It's a social plan in case life goes on. Yes, there are gaps, precisely because, as I have said, we want to involve people in order to fill these gaps, precisely so that these proposals come from the areas most affected by these restrictions. That's the purpose of this thing. You can show these blank tables, but that's the idea that, unlike this top-down attitude, it's the idea to communicate from the bottom up. Mart Helmele: listening to this complaining here, I would like to say that a politician complaining about the press is like a sailor complaining about the stormy sea. Maybe you shouldn't. But now for the vaccination. Since it's been a theme here today, I'm still gonna sort some stuff out. During your reign, Mart Helme, 23,000 people were vaccinated, while during our reign, and it's been a little over two months, we've vaccinated 219400 people. Well, there's no way to say that we would have failed here. I think we've got it going really well, and we're pulling it up more and more. Secondly, what you're saying is that the infection ends when the borders go down. An example from last week: more than 5540 cases were Estonia's infection and 127 cases were introduced from outside. The self-insulation obligation, as you are referring to, is still valid. You can buy yourself free with a negative test. There's a chance to run a test. Now, if we use force, so that we take these people at the border and stab them in the nose of this cotton ball, you would definitely say that this is a violation of constitutional rights and a violation of human physical integrity. The self-insulation obligation is valid and we finished this Baltic bubble, which freed Latvians and Finns from these requirements at the border. So it all works. Now I come back to this plan. It is my wish to communicate with the political groups and to listen to your proposals on how to comply with this plan. If some groups, as I understand it, do not want to discuss it, I understand it too, and I do not, of course, impose my will, but I would like to listen to the proposals of the representatives of the people in so far as you represent different people. Just as we have proved elected, you have also proved elected, and you have a variety of ideas that you would like to include in order for society to be on board. All this so that we can avoid turning society off in the future. But the problem is vaccination, that is what we are constantly dealing with to improve it and to get vaccinated older people who are in the highest risk group. But thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U161	Thank you. As the names of the members of the Riigikogu or their positions in particular have been mentioned during the negotiations, the members of the Riigikogu, if they so wish, have the right to rejoin. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U162	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, I do not think this is an appropriate reference, and I do not think that this is a dignified comparison when you say that less vaccination was given during the previous government. No one was vaccinated during the previous administration, Madam Prime Minister. [[Laughter.]] But the fact is, if you so begin to prank the numbers, that if 40,000 people fell into coronavir during the previous year during the previous government, then within your few months, 70,000 people have fallen ill in Estonia. We have risen from the number of people affected in the European Union to the fourth place per capita. It's a reality when you're talking about numbers. And now you said that the plan is not an exit plan, but rather a plan in case life goes on. Madam Prime Minister, life goes on anyway! The question is, you said to lead from the bottom up. Downstairs! You've been experimenting on it, we've seen in the last few days how bottom-up control is used to vaccinate. You also did not answer when I asked you personally to answer the question whether the first injection of AstraZeneca for people under the age of 60 is allowed or not. You said you'd be discussing it this afternoon. They're being led up, these decisions are being made somewhere, they're being communicated, and they've come together, unfortunately, I have to be honest, a terrible threat. I agree with you that we need to work together on this, there is no doubt about it. But there's no way to replace a decision. It is the responsibility of the Government and the Head of Government to decide which decisions must be taken; this cannot be done through distance management. That's what I think, Madam Prime Minister. Now, the Baltic bubble. In the case of the Baltic bubble, I come back to the fact that the Baltic bubble was subject to testing obligations for those who preferred not to be isolated. So the Baltic bubble was very useful, and I don't think the decisions you made were thought out either. Is it possible to apply the testing obligation at borders? Democratic cultural nations, the rule of law in Europe, have done so, and no one has said that people are being chained and pierced. This is what the countries have been able to do in a normal, correct way. There's no mention that there's been a violation of the principles of the rule of law anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U163	Dear Urmas Reinsalu, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U164	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U165	It's okay. Thank you. Now, before [the speaker] Mart Helme, who or whose position was also mentioned in the negotiations, has come up with a procedural question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U166	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have the procedural information to pass on to you. I have had most sessions physically on site and very rarely take the opportunity to work in teleworking format. And I have to admit, this connection today has been just terrible. I have not wanted to interfere with the sitting and its conduct, but communication has been interrupted repeatedly and repeatedly. I may have heard 10% of the negotiations, and I was also forced to refrain from participating in the negotiations on behalf of the group. For me, this speech was made by another member of the group, because the interruptions in communication are just terrible. And I'm not somewhere behind the woods, I'm in downtown Viljandi, where there should be a connection. It was my information to the board that we had to do something. Working in this format simply is not normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U167	I thank you for this information. This is important information. I fully understand this resentment when associations do not work in remote sessions. We have tried, and certainly you, when you presided over the sitting of the Riigikogu, we have all tried so that people can re-establish their connection and express their views and thoughts. So I take this information very seriously. Thank you. Now for the reception on the spot. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U168	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I sometimes get the impression here that the current Prime Minister has graduated from the Leningrad Party School because, as the Soviet Union's achievements were always compared to those of 1913 Tsar-Russia, he always wants to compare what was before his time. Before your time, dear Prime Minister, there were no vaccines, no effective vaccines. They came at the very end of this last government, and, of course, we didn't have time to vaccinate any more than you mentioned, I don't know, 27,000 or how much there is. [Can't] compare it to the current situation where vaccines are on the market, are also in Estonia and are in stock and are unused. Family doctors say we could vaccinate significantly more if we were given the vaccine. We have private clinics that say we could vaccinate significantly more and also different age groups if we were given the vaccine. This is all about one thing: your inability to organise vaccination so that it is smooth and covers as large a population as possible and, in the shortest possible period, you can immunise as much of the population as possible. You won't be able to arrange it. And frankly, here I think there is a very serious reason to express mistrust either to you or to the Minister for Health and Labour. Because this thing is abnormal. And the way you try to put the blame on your ministers all the time, though to the previous government, yes, I don't know, the bad weather, well, it's just not acceptable. And that's about locking up the borders. The South African strain is several times the cause of mortality. As a person at risk, I am seriously concerned that this strain is being introduced across the border. It is enough for some people to make sure that this rapidly contagious strain becomes devastating.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U169	Thank you. And now the procedural question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U170	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. To avoid the impression that the city of Viljandi is a bombhole where there is no signal, I can say, working from Viljandi now, that the coverage has been excellent throughout the session.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U171	I thank the Riigikogu as the chair of the sitting. Thank you very much for this direct report from Viljandi City! This is really important to us now, and I am glad that in one place the work has worked well. But at the same time, it really sets greater goals for us to reach this last mile to anyone who wants it, either on one side or on the other side of Lake Viljandi. Let's push for it. Now's an interesting moment. Evgeny Ossinovski, please, what do you have right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U172	I have an address because my name and views were mentioned by Mr Helme in his speech. [[A voice from the hall.]] You mentioned the position, said the Social Democrats were talking here. I'd like to talk for two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U173	Please, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U174	Thank you. To Mart Helme, I would advise you to calm down. Of course, these concerns are serious and these disputes must be passionate, but going to personal insults, I think, is not appropriate and will certainly not take us forward. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has also had to respond to these relevant points of criticism at the end of this debate, because indeed, the concerns we have expressed in this crisis management process and in the organisation of vaccination are our common problems. If the state goes to the bush, we must get it back on the way, because the welfare of the whole country and of the whole nation depends on it. I am pleased, Madam Prime Minister, that you take seriously this criticism, the legitimate criticism, the evidence-based criticism that the Social Democrats have put forward. I really hope that with the 80+ vaccination we can now actually get the focus in place and make an important leap in the next few weeks, so that we can get the hospitals under pressure, get the mortality rate, and we can get back to opening society faster. And, as we have said many times, with our rather remarkable expertise in the field of health, we are certainly prepared by our group to always be there for advice and force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U175	Thank you. Now there's a procedural question on Signe Kivi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U176	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I actually have a question for the manager. However, are we not currently away from the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act and what are the procedural questions and answers and what are not? Question for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U177	We've had about three procedural questions, as far as I know. One was a good signal from Viljandi's location, the other was a bad signal, and the information was important. You also had a procedural question. Have they been [procedural]? Well, they've been giving out information. I think we should keep going. And what's going on right now is really inside the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. If a person and his or her position are mentioned, he or she will receive an answer once. Now, Mart Helme, you have been mentioned, you have your word, and I understand that you now want to contradict Mr Ossinovski. Mr. Helme, please! Let's give a microphone for once, because it's actually very interesting what Mart Helme thinks right now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U178	I didn't mention that name. I mentioned a performer from the Social Democratic Party. This is not a name mention, so I think he should not have had the right to speak or to reply. And as far as personal insults are concerned, I have not personally offended anyone. It is not a personal insult to make criticism and questioning the competence of the current Minister, the Prime Minister, anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U179	Thank you. And now is the moment when I see that there are no more speeches. So I'm closing the negotiations. And just as we have had the custom of a political statement, we will not finally take a decision here. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. I thank the members of the Riigikogu for your questions and opinions. That is how we have been able to deal with the first item on the agenda. Now we are going to the second item on the agenda, but one more surprise has come before us. A letter from the member of the Riigikogu from Jaanus Kariladi, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, and he has a proposal. He proposes to extend the working time of the Riigikogu on 8 April until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. And as our turn envisages, we will prepare the vote on this proposal. However, as has become a good practice, the practice is important in the Riigikogu in addition to the house and operating procedures, procedural issues. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U180	Thank you. I would, however, like to say that Signe Kivi was certainly right to ask this procedural question, and I think that Mr Ossinovski was also right to speak. In fact, the Home and Working Procedures Act does not talk about the name of a person, but I think it is important for us to fix it for the sake of protocol, and I would like to know that the President of the sitting joins my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Act, says that whether the identity of a member of the Riigikogu is not even a name, but that person is actually identifiable even if he is marked in a different way than simply with a first and last name or the views expressed in his speech are dealt with in the speech. So it seems to me that it was evident here that these views were Mr Ossinovski's. That is to say, in some of the speeches [which have been said], and this also includes an adoption, so that Mr Helme in itself would indeed have had the opportunity to adopt Mr Ossinovski's adoption. Is my interpretation correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U181	I agree with your interpretation in principle until the last sentence. It was all 100 percent right. And that last thought was that once we've received a reception and then somebody's going to mention us again that then we're going to have a reception again. In my opinion, this has not been the point of home and working arrangements. That's how we're gonna keep playing that ping-pong. However, since we have also discussed this issue in the body of elders in the sense of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act to the next composition, perhaps I really agree with you, Mr Reinsalu, that this next or, say, the second reception should be fixed. But I have to tell Mr. Odines and Urve Tiidus that there is no such form now, that you simply put your names here, that they are there, and if you have the mark of your hand, it is procedural, if there is no hand, then it is not procedural. It's just up on the board. We will now begin the preparation of the vote proposed by Jaanus Karilaid. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Jaanus Kariladi's proposal to extend this sitting and the working time of the Riigikogu plenary until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U182	With the result of 60, against 1 was the proposal's support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U183	We are now starting to deal with the second item, which is a presentation of the implementation of the decision "Estonian Fundamentals of Sport Policy until 2030." The rapporteur is Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture. Before we begin this process, I will briefly introduce the procedure. First, the presentation by the Minister of Culture is up to 30 minutes. Then there are questions, each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there will be negotiations where representatives of the political groups and members of the Government of the Republic can speak, and the Chancellor of Justice will be entitled to speak. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. This was briefly the framework for this procedure. I ask Anneli Oti, Minister of Culture, to wait for the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am very pleased to give you an overview of the implementation of the 2020 sport policy. Estonian sport has a long and rich history and our national identity is strongly written in. It has been part of our national culture and we have always lived with our heroes from the heart. Even if it doesn't go well, we're proud of those who represent us at the big international championships. The work these people have done and the work they have seen is not obvious, and they deserve recognition in any case. The year 2020 behind was undoubtedly a very exceptional year and was full of unexpected challenges. The sport year did not even begin when sports life almost completely stopped because of the global pandemic. The Olympic Games in Tokyo were postponed for a year, the first time in the history of this major event in 124 years. However, when looking for a balance between openness and restrictions, it was possible to continue the sport year. Most of the time, however, without traditional traditions and audience involvement. But there's always something good about every bad thing. Take the example of Rally Estonia, which took place for the first time in South Estonia as an MM stage. We showed the whole world that Estonia is a race country and Estonian is a race nation, and the high-level organisation led Rally Estonia to the world championship calendar of the Rally Estonia car races this year and next year. Who would have thought that after winning Ott Tänaku and Martin Järveoja World Championship, we would be able to take a step even higher so quickly and bring the top drivers and teams to South Estonia? The difficult situation in the world was a key factor that created an opportunity for Estonia and we were able to make excellent use of it. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The strategy paper "The Fundamentals of Estonian Sport Policy until 2030" was adopted by the Riigikogu in 2015. This set out the goals and priorities of Estonian sport policy. Speaking of longer objectives, I would like to start with the main priority of this document on sport policy and, at the same time, with one major concern. The saying "A healthy spirit in a healthy body" is more meaningful today than ever. How to increase people's physical activity is an issue that is not relevant in Estonia alone, but in the whole world. A study carried out by the Institute for Health Development in 2018 shows that 40% of Estonian adults practice exercise for at least 30 minutes twice a week. According to movement recommendations provided by the World Health Organization, adults should be moderately active but have a minimum of 150 to 300 minutes per week. By 2030, Estonia's sport will target at least 65% of the population in Estonia, like the Nordic countries. In order to achieve this, cooperation needs to be cross-cutting, but the role of local authorities, which, thanks to well-designed public space, can best promote active lifestyles, is also important. It is difficult for the country alone to reach its goal. In cooperation with cities and municipalities, the achievement of the main objective is realistic. This will not only benefit health, but also our economy, because a healthier living environment will create and produce more common wealth for all of us. However, 2020 can be considered as a year of visit to health trails because, in the light of the restrictions imposed by the virus, RMK's visit to recreational areas and forest trails increased to 2.8 million, and the state supported the development of health trails with a total of EUR 600000 for the second consecutive year. Other health trails were also in active use. If the bog tour on the day of rest has become one of the pleasures of many Estonians, how can we make sure that the active movement also fits into the everyday life? It's hard to change habits, because if you have to choose whether to ride a bike or a car in the morning, we usually prefer the latter. In so doing, we sit in the office eight hours a day, and when we return home at night, our homework requires our time. While working in a home office, some people also fail to take these few steps from door to car and from car to job. The aim of the "Estonia 2035" strategy is that at least 55% of people move to work daily on public transport, bicycle or foot. It's gonna take me to reverse the trend of driving. The cities and municipalities of Estonia can contribute here, paying more attention to public space planning, so that solutions to facilitate everyday mobility for children and adults, starting with playgrounds and running paths, and ending with the establishment of outdoor gyms, are also considered important. I think I'm hurting some people here because the number of sports enthusiasts has increased by 4% compared to last year. However, it is clear that the sport sector alone cannot save the Estonian population. Healthy people are important to the country and there is a need to respond to worrying numbers. The Government of the Republic has made human health one of the priorities of next year, and the Coalition Agreement in the Health Programme states that the aim is to increase the number of people's healthy lives and promote healthy lifestyles. The 100-day plan of the government also included the objective of developing a concept of exercise that would help to make the system more comprehensive, coordinated and effective. The change does not happen overnight, but, step by step, we will be able to reverse the current trend. Yet, it all starts with us because no one else can move for us. Unfortunately, we also need to talk in the dark about harassment in sport. They are extremely regrettable and painful. Such incidents have no place in sport. Any action against the will, including sexual violence against minors, is completely unacceptable. Every person, especially a child and young, must become only a positive memory and a useful experience for life. We need to take even stronger steps to ensure that this is true. In 2020, Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics Foundation started its activities as a result of the transformation of the Estonian Antidoping Foundation. In addition to the topics of doping and manipulation of sports competitions, it also deals with child protection and prevention cases of abuse and other topics related to sports ethics. The Ministry of Justice and other partner institutions dealing with abuse are also involved. Last year, the Ministry of Culture supported the activities of the Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics Foundation with EUR 250000, and it is undoubtedly vital to continue supporting the activities of the organisation, because thanks to their good work, sport follows the rules that it has established. Protecting children in sport means protecting them from physical and emotional harm, abuse, violence, exploitation and neglect. I call on everyone to notice what is happening around us and to inform the authorities set up for this purpose. The field of sport is regulated in Estonia by the Sport Act. In recent years, developments have been observed in both sport and society in general, which gave the Ministry of Culture the impetus in spring 2018, together with areas, to prepare a number of fundamental changes to the Sport Act. For example, they concerned the principles of awarding scholarships and grants to athletes and, as a result, a special regulation for grants to athletes entered into force on 1 March last year, in order to avoid disputes and abuse of scholarships and to create a more stable regime for the remuneration of athletes. Sport must be fair and the amendments to the Sport Act, which entered into force last March, also made the mediation of doping agents and biasing the use of doping punishable by criminal penalties. Every case of doping erodes faith in pure sport and puts pressure on all athletes who achieve or wish to achieve good results in the future in a fair manner. Good listeners! When I joined the ministry, I said in an interview that top sport is a national matter and it's a business card. The Team Estonia project, launched in 2011, provides an important support system for top athletes to focus on maximum performance and sports careers. Team Estonia's support increased last year from EUR 1 million to EUR 3 million, and I see the need to increase the funding for this project further. First of all, it helps to raise new Olympic winners. The success of the major competitions is held by Estonia on the world map of sport, brings the state of Estonia a reputation and has a positive impact on the sports performance of our population. In addition to the Estonian Medal Collection, the Team Estonia project encourages young athletes and their parents to move more ambitiously towards big targets. In the past, for many athletes, the pursuit of a real peak may have been merely a dream, but the Team Estonia project ensures that athletes have first economic success when they move from young age classes to adult classes. Experiences from countries comparable to Estonia, Denmark and Slovenia show that success will result in the pooling of support for top athletes in a unified system that guarantees all the necessary conditions for the members of the team. However, the pursuit of the peak is very closely linked to our training opportunities in our home country. Last year's major infrastructure investments are worth highlighting the Käärku sports centre, whose development was supported by the state with EUR 4.6 million. It is worth noting that the state has contributed EUR 12 million to the construction of the complex between 2018 and 2020. Last year, athletics and football stadiums with new lighting were completed, and the outdoor swimming pool was renovated. Five teams have completed the extension of accommodation services, where 60 athletes can be accommodated. Estonia lacks modern and innovative solutions and undoubtedly shows to what extent the state values both children's and young people's sport and our top athletes' opportunities to train in conditions worthy of the Olympic Games. It is good to note that there is a great deal of interest in using the centre and that reservations have been made several years in advance. Sportingist in Estonian counties has been strongly promoted by Estonian Health trails, which have built more than 100 health trails and nearly 70 internal health trails across Estonia. The Estonian Health trails aim to ensure that the majority of the Estonian population has access to a network of health trails throughout the year for free movement. The Estonian Health trails have also been a good partner for the Ministry of Culture in implementing the regional health centres measure. From this measure in recent years, the state has supported 23 regional health centres with a total of EUR 600000 per year and has helped to organise and modernise many regional health centres. The greater objective is to develop a multifaceted network of regional fitness centres for exercise in Estonia. By the end of next year, when the support period is over, there will be at least one health sports centre in every county of Estonia, in many cases, where the trails of motion are illuminated and the ability to produce artificial snow is guaranteed. Health sports centres are popular among people, as demonstrated by the abundance of sports friends on organized and enlightened ski trails. Based on the data of the counters placed on health trails, about 1 million visits were made during the last ski season on routes supported by the state. This undoubtedly signals that the support measure has justified itself and it is certainly worth considering the continuation of the support measure in the interests of public health. The project to build the football indoor halls started in 2020 will get a real kick-start this year. New grays will rise to Viljandi, Haapsalu, Rapla and Tartu. All these multifunctional greys offer, in addition to local football players, better training conditions for other sports enthusiasts, as well as for students in local educational establishments [from grey to] 500 metres away. Decisions that develop and promote sport outside the capital are particularly positive. Every euro invested in sport brings money back many times in the form of stronger health. More specifically, the Ministry of Culture's 2020 budget allocated a total of EUR 48.2 million to the sport sector, divided into grants in such a way that 32.1 million went to sport organisations, 12.7 million to public investment in sports objects and 3.4 million to crisis aid. In total, the State allocated approximately EUR 13 million to sport organisations to compensate for the economic losses caused by the exceptional circumstances. In addition to the 3.4 million mentioned earlier from the Ministry of Culture, 4.5 million were added from the Ministry of Education and Research, 4.5 million from the Unemployment Insurance Fund and 400000 from EAS. In the second quarter of last year, tax revenues in the sport sector decreased by 38.8% compared to the same quarter of 2019. The grant granted by the State helped the sport sector survive the first major blow, while the tax receipts returned to earlier levels in the fourth quarter. For this, I would also like to thank the previous government. In addition to the state's contribution, the support of local authorities for the field is crucial. In 2019, Estonia's cities and municipalities made a record allocation of 82.2 million euros to sport. The amount of subsidies for 2020 will not be known until the summer of this year, but I hope that the year that was torn by the pandemic did not leave much trace here. In 2020, which was heavily influenced by the restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of the corona virus, local authorities allocated a total of 3.2 million grants with a direct track record of sport. Leaving aside the amounts of Tallinn and Tartu, the remaining 77 local governments supported the achievement sport with a total of 1.4 million euros. Achievement sport support accounts for about 5% of the support given to sport by local authorities. This shows that the main objective of local authorities is to support sport at local level, to create and maintain sports objects and, where possible, to support an achievement sport. In 2020, the Ministry of Finance opened the portal of my own government.ee, which aims to provide feedback on the services provided by local governments. Most municipalities are currently at an average level in terms of the provision of sport services. Local authorities with a high population met the criteria better, i.e. they are able to provide a better quality service. There is also a link to the dispersion of the population: in central governments, sports services are also better ensured. 66 municipalities have reached an elementary base level, but it is worrying that even 13 municipalities have not been able to achieve this. To be honest, achieving a basic level should not be a very large resource for a local government that respects one of its population. We continue to hope for better and good will here. Good ambassadors! I suggest you all get acquainted with the quality of the services in your area through the portal my own government.ee and think about how to help yourself. In 2020, the state supported the pay of coaches at EUR 7.25 million. There was a sharp increase in the number of coach invitations, from the usual range of 3300 to 3450 in recent years to almost 3700 coach calls. The process has been influenced by coaching support, both nationally and at local level, by the more careful local activities of sports federations and by school support for coaching. A higher number of coach invitations will also mean greater pressure in the coming years on the coach labour cost support system, where a record number of training hours has already been requested for 2021. In order to ensure the sustainability of the system and to reach the average wage in Estonia, there is a need to find additional resources in the near future to increase the wage levels of coaches and to increase training hours supported by the state. I believe that in the speech that sums up the sport year, it is vital to also touch the parasport. People with disabilities are increasingly giving priority to moving and athletic lifestyles, and the state must undoubtedly guarantee them good conditions for doing so. Year after year, there is increasing cooperation with sports associations and local authorities. The state supported umbrella organisations for people with disabilities with EUR 1 million in 2020. It was still EUR 400000 in 2018. It is no less important that, throughout the year, the restriction on training activities does not apply to the activities of persons with disabilities, including the provision of social and occupational rehabilitation services. Thus, all our disabled athletes have been able to train under normal conditions. Finally. Estonians have strong sports genes. Sport has historically created heroes and will create them in our future. As a small country, we can be proud of Estonian athletes who keep our blue black and white flag high in international major competitions, but they are also inspirers and shape important values in society, such as healthy nutrition and the active movement of people. It is extremely important to keep this in mind, because an equal sign can be drawn between movement and good health and, after all, it is an important prerequisite for the preservation of the Estonian people and for ensuring the sustainability of the state. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U185	Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation. Let's get to the questions. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U186	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, Madam Minister, for this review. My question is on an issue which may or may not be common in the context of sport policy. If you look at the gender composition of the presidents and leaders of the subgroups, there are still men there. Sport management is a man's activity, they also represent us in international federations, being deputy leaders and board members there. The Ministry's Sports Department also consists only of men. My question is whether and at what level attention will be paid to gender equality in sport, including the balance between men and women in managing sport, in addition to the fact that we have a woman as the Minister of Sport.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U187	Thank you very much for this question. The subject raised by the honourable questioner is certainly wider than the issue of sport. We are talking here about a question that is actually much wider in Estonian society. I believe that if this balance increases in society as a whole, it will also increase in the field of sport. Personally, I would be extremely pleased if this were to happen in a 'natural way' so that we would not have to artificially create this equality or gender balance in any way, but that, in fact, we have a great many good people, they are men or women, in the field of sport. In the short time that I have been in office, I have also come across the situation of local governments and have met a great many women in the field of sport. And I believe that in the future their numbers will only increase. It grows not only in the field of sport, but also in other areas. So I rather believe that this is perhaps another problem that stands out now, but in a few years' time we will be able to see a much greater balance here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U188	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U189	Thank you very much, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Promoting the mobility of children and young people is a key element of sport policy for the future. This has a far-reaching impact on physical and mental health and on quality of life and life expectancy, as you have noted in your presentation today. I use a fresh survey in Finland. In Finland, only half of children aged 7 to 12 are sufficiently mobile and one fifth of children aged 13 to 17 are athleticly active. The last year, of course, is not the best example for evaluating exercise, but the impact of modern technology on reduced physical activity among children and young people is a fact. I'm sure we're not much different from our neighbours. Yesterday, the Finnish Ministry of Education and Culture announced recommendations for children aged 7 to 17: to perform at least an hour of athletic activity every day, speeding up the pulse and breathing, these are areas of duration, mainly cycling, running, and at least three times a week a little sweating is also useful. How do you like this Finn plan and these suggestions? Do we have anything comparable to set aside for this age group now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U190	Thank you very much, dear questioner. And thank you so much for sharing our neighbours' goal. I think it's very right. I respect Finnish society's awareness of how to lead people towards a healthier lifestyle. I have experienced myself, I think, about ten years ago, how thoroughly this issue is actually being considered at the municipal level. Unfortunately, I have to admit, we still have a lesson to learn from this. We are currently developing a concept of exercise. This review of sport policy also focused more on local authorities this time, after all, it is the local authorities who, to a very large extent, shape the environment in which our people, our young people, can move. The broader theme of mobility is horizontal in a wide range of areas. It is certainly very important to work with the Ministry of Education and Research to reach schools. One focus of the current concept of exercise is that children and young people move for at least one hour each day during school days. We have a good example in the form of Elva's school, it shows that it is not only physical education that really offers mobility. There are many other opportunities for mobility, solutions. Motivators should be people who are known in sport today or who have already been involved in sport for longer and can bring their knowledge and role model to schools. This concept is currently under development. The Ministry of Culture wants to come to the government in the near future, in April. How to take a more precise approach to getting people moving, including 17-year-olds, 7-year-olds and 70-year-olds, is not the exact difference we are not making at the moment, we are talking about the wider movement of the population. About 25% of our young people and children are moving enough. Caring and the fast digital era have created a situation where we can get the services very quickly without having to move very much to do so. We don't have to move too much, not go anywhere, we get the service we need more or less in our home. This creates a situation where [an improvement in mobility] does not happen by itself, but we have to deal with it consciously. However, how to get children and young people off the computer and how to make daily exercise a natural activity for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U191	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U192	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, "The fundamentals of Estonian sport policy until 2030" was confirmed in 2015, six years have passed since. Today we have a summary of the activities of 2020. What are the areas in sport that we should pay more attention to in view of the goals set in 2015, which we should involve more in society, and why not also target advertising and investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U193	Thank you very much for this question. There are quite a few of these areas, there cannot be just one. But if you will allow me, I would also like to bring my previous answer to this answer, which is definitely one of the issues that needs to be dealt with more. In addition, attention must also be paid to regional investments so that all of Estonia is covered by mobility opportunities at local level. Cooperation with local authorities, cooperation with local sports federations, cooperation with local sports federations, who are engaged in our general exercise activities in very many of these sports federations, after all, there are one, to a maximum of two people at work, who must get people to move at the level of the whole county. This is certainly too few and this contribution must be increased, this cooperation must be increased. Certainly, the subject that I mentioned in my speech on the professional qualifications of coaches and the remuneration of coaches is also [important]. Coach must be qualified, invited. We're talking about the lowest level, kindergarten, all the way to top sports. It must be a trained person. In addition to ethics, it is that sport is safe. This has not been very acutely raised in society since last year, but I will mention it. This is an issue that has been raised this year and I think that this debate must not go away in society. We need to move forward with this, we need to look seriously at this issue, because it is certainly not a matter for children and young people, it is a question for adults: how the coach behaves, how the coach defends himself in this situation, what are the rules under which the coach can act in such a way that young people and children, as well as he himself, are protected and sports are safe for everyone. This is certainly an extremely important issue, both in this and in the coming years, so that we can take our children to work out peacefully, everyone would have a lot of joy and, ultimately, healthy people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U194	Natalia Malleus, please! [[No connection.]] Dear Natalia Malleus, you are not to be heard. Let's try...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U195	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Top athletes... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U196	Dear Natalia Malleus! Honourable member of the Riigikogu! I'm sorry, the connection's really bad. I'm asking you to abort the connection now. I hope, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Natalia Malleus, that I am now hearing from you. Your connection was very bad. We have sometimes managed to improve the connection by going out of Chrome for a moment and then opening this powerful Chrome again. Please do it! Sign yourself up again, and I will give you the floor right now, just not at the moment to understand you, because the Internet connection was very bad. So please go through this procedure and then I will give you the floor again in the round of questions. Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U197	[[Remote connection]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! My question also concerns the exercise of school-age children, namely a new, mature curriculum for physical education, with which I am aware that very many teachers of physical education across Estonia do not really agree. We are always talking about the need to increase mobility, and we are also amplifying this message through public figures, be it the President of the ECT, the Minister or someone else. But in action, we're going in the opposite direction. Whether the number of courses in [gymnasium physical education] is reduced from six to five, the trend is decreasing. We need very specific actions. It's been talked about for a very long time. Please tell us how we can increase children's mobility very clearly over the next two or three or four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U198	Thank you for that question. The Coalition is committed to developing the concept of exercise. The Ministry of Culture wishes to submit the draft concept to the Government of the Republic in April. The implementation of the concept is certainly broad-based, involving a wide range of partners in a horizontal way, and certainly also ministries, including the Ministry of Education and Research. Unfortunately, I have to admit that I can't tell you the full recipe today how it's going to happen, but I fully agree with you that action is needed. This is what the Ministry of Culture is currently working on, and the coalition agreement also provides for the point that we will develop and act on the concept of mobility. We already have good examples in Estonia, as I said earlier in answering one question. Elva School has been able to make their children move for at least one hour of school day. You don't have to have a PE class to do this, you can use completely alternative activities. But I certainly don't think it's right, for example, that if there was a quarter of ski this year, it was a great opportunity, but unfortunately we had schools at home when we were studying, then we're going skiing one day a week, skiing for three hours and getting [all week hours] at a time. There are many solutions, but the goal is that one is a PE class and the other is a wider movement. This includes both recess and course classes in the curriculum, where you can definitely combine your studies with your mobility. To this end, we should have possible options jointly worked out and thought through with the involvement of specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U199	Natalia Malleus! Natalia Malleus, if you hear and are in session, I will now give you the floor again. Let's try to reconnect with you. Question, Natalia Malleus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U200	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Many top athletes need to combine training with work to get the means to organise everyday life. In doing so, they must constantly seek sponsors to support their activities. As a result, I have a question: do you consider that the top sport in Estonia is sufficiently funded compared to other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U201	Thank you for that question. The state of Estonia has contributed 3 million euros to the top sport last year, through Team Estonia. This is 2 million more than in 2019: in 2019 it was 1 million, last year it was 3 million and this year Estonia will contribute 3 million euros to the development of top sport. With this mechanism, 80 athletes and 60 coaches will receive support, as well as the same number of young athletes and their coaches, as well as teams of young and adult teams in teams. The development of top sport is very important for Estonia in shaping sport policy, and here, as I said in my speech, we must definitely move forward in order for Team Estonia's resources to support top sport to grow in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U202	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I thank you very much for your excellent and thorough review. I think it was very right and good that, although we are dealing with sport here, you also talked about things that have emerged and are not in the sport room at all. These are the same problems with violence, harassment, doping and all that. These issues have all been on the table for a very long time, but I have this feeling that the social institutions that are supposed to deal with these problems are still primarily dealing with the consequences, they are simply weak. That is why I feel that the country should pay more attention to this too. What is the view of the Ministry of Culture of getting these unhealthy phenomena out of sport anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U204	Thank you very much. I very much agree with the honourable questioner. These issues do not belong to sport; they must not belong to sport; we must all make an effort to do so. The Ministry of Culture deals with this topic through the Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics Foundation. Prevention and training activities were launched last year and raising the problem in society this year will certainly increase this focus. At the moment, codes of conduct, which have already been sent to our partner organisations for coordination, are being developed to examine whether they are sufficient for us to take one step forward. There is certainly a need to hold a broader social debate. These practices we actually have to take from Europe, there are very good guidelines. But no paper in itself will help. Society itself must be active in the sense that we want to eradicate this activity from sport and from any other aspect of life. There must be the ability [to see the problem], the ability to recognise it, both for the bystander and for the person who is being misbehaved. It doesn't always have to be a minor, it can also be an adult in terms of age, either 18 or 19. [False behavior] may not always be able to recognize. I think that the Ministry also has a major role to play in keeping this topic 'active' in society so that we can look at it from a completely different angle. Not if you're missing it! it only makes you feel better that something's wrong. We need to be able to spot and act accordingly and know where to turn. I very much agree with you that this issue must not subside, and we must move on with it actively.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U205	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U206	Minister, thank you for your presentation. Yes, the sad truth is that indeed our children move very little, but so do adults. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, your advisers spoke about the likely next week to introduce a government-level concept on how to help solve this problem. Politicians usually can describe the problem very accurately, but we have difficulties with solutions. As your minister, could you introduce even a little bit of this concept or, to some extent, those tricks that we can use to get the people of Estonia moving?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U207	Thank you very much. A more detailed overview will certainly be provided when we discuss this issue in the government. Now and next week, the Ministry is working on putting this concept together. I have already touched on this subject in my answer to the questions and in my speech. One is certainly a horizontal approach: we are working very closely with local authorities as well as with local sports organisations and sub-nationalities. This is not just a job run by the Ministry of Culture. EOK certainly has a major role to play here too, because one area is the theme of exercise. The Sport School project will also be funded with €2 million this year in order to get more students to move through it. In addition, it is, of course, important to develop the infrastructure supporting mobility in local governments. Just a few days ago, I signed a [document] on the financing of projects amounting to EUR 600000 this year. [For this money] municipalities across Estonia can reconstruct various health objects in their area of administration and enable a wider range of exercise activities. This topic is very wide. One moment, which is certainly important and which I mentioned, is that [an improvement in mobility] does not happen by itself. This means that, in all of this, we must be involved in this request, we have planned to ask the state budget for a'research-based' approach. We ask experts for an opinion on how exactly to do this, how it is possible to give a person a sense of movement for the rest of his life. [We ask them] what is it, what is it, what are these activities, which are the emotions that are these budgets on the side of local governments, it [must] take place in cooperation with the state, so that the state contributes and contributes to the local government, and how much the private sector should contribute. This whole subject matter [is important]. Since we have reached the point that [the situation is not improving] simply, we will be in an even more difficult situation in a few years' time without knowingly and science-based action.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U208	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, on this item, everyone can ask a question, I will just inform you for a moment. But let's move on. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Anneli! On page 26 of this review, there is a very worrying graph that reflects how young people can perform physical tests at the beginning and end of military service. Until 2018, around half of the tests were able to be carried out at the beginning and after, at the end about 90%, while by 2019 and 2020 these figures have fallen sharply: only 32% and 28% at the beginning and end of the service, 62% and 59%. These are very worrying figures. Can you explain that? Have you looked at this graph, and can you explain why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U210	Thank you very much for your question. I've been looking at the graph, and I've been familiar with the problem since I was your colleague in the National Defence Committee. What have we been talking about here today? In fact, a lot of the same schedule. Caring and attacking the digital world are what affects young people's physical abilities, and we can see the result on this schedule. That is what we are saying today that nothing is going to change by accident anymore, but we need to use the financial resources to develop a concept of how to move forward, based on research, through broad cooperation with all parties involved, so that this graph 'turns up'.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U211	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U212	Thank you. Minister, thank you for your review. It is a pleasure to see that the Ministry of Culture has provided us with such fine material in recent years. Actually, I'd like to ask a lot, one question is damn little. [[Laughing.]] I would really like to discuss the fact that in this new situation, where we are now and where we are rethinking a great many things, what has been done in this situation or what ideas the Ministry of Culture has in order to take advantage of this health crisis in a good way and to move forward with these issues in a new society. But I must also certainly ask about investments, and not even about investments, but about the important things you intend to ask about the country's budgetary strategy. We're about to have some discussions. What are the important things in the area of sport that you want to ask for next year's budget? And one little nuance that I warned the minister about before: what about the Hiiumaa Sports Centre? The President of the sitting would certainly like a more precise answer on this too. Will the EUR 300000 that is claimed to be promised be included in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U213	Thank you very much. The sports centre in Hiiumaa is set at 1.8 million euros this year and 0.3 million euros next year. At the moment, the Hiiumaa Sports Centre has these contracts. For me personally, it is extremely important that investments in sport be regionally balanced and that we have very good conditions in different parts of Estonia. They do not have to be designed to engage in the same sport, but they may also be used to engage in different sports and to conduct sports events, even at the top of the world, should Estonia have the opportunity to do so. Now for the country's budget strategy. The negotiations on the state budget are really just starting. By the end of April, more precise circumstances should be identified, which will be planned in the coming years. That's why I don't want to bring out any objects right now. But as I said, I consider it important that there is regional balance. And, as I have pointed out in my speech and in answering questions, in order for us to be able to increase mobility in society at large, it is important both for the investment side and for a research-based approach to the whole concept, as well as for cooperation between local authorities. In this area, the country alone will certainly not get the result that we expect. This, of course, also requires a budgetary contribution from the municipalities. I hope that, in the process of developing this concept, we will come to a common understanding of how it is most effective to do so. Of course, our great motivation is also the increase in the number of coach applicants and trainers at professional level. There's been a glass ceiling here for years that doesn't go over, 3400, and now all of a sudden it's gone to 3700. This shows that the country has taken the right steps and that there has been a positive result with a small reference. Surely the message is to move on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U214	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like to say because I have seen a number of reactions here to this [limitation] question that, in this connection, we have initiated a review of the House and Rules of Procedure Act in the House of Elders. Paragraph 155 (4) states that there is one oral question in such cases. But this law also provides an opportunity: "... unless otherwise agreed between the Board and the official of the Riigikogu. " Perhaps in the future, it could indeed be as we normally have, that everyone has two questions. I think that this could be one of the points of discussion when we start discussing the rules of procedure and home for the next membership. Now let's move on. Do you want to open negotiations? The negotiations are to be opened. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech, please! How much time do you want? It gets from one second to 180 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U215	Let's take the maximum.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U216	Okay, then eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the watchers of the transfer! Unfortunately, we have to admit that Estonian schoolchildren move less than the prisoners in Estonian prisons. The prisoners are able to travel in the fresh air every day for an hour, but Estonian students move in the fresh air, and it should be emphasised that not every day, but only one week, on average only four hours. There's only a tenth of the children in the fresh air, just as much as there are prisoners. This harsh comparison is set out on the Health Fund website passen.ee. The activity of students is alarmingly low. Only 24% of children move enough from a healthy development point of view, even though nearly half of Estonian children participate in training in some sports. We also know that one in four first-class children is overweight. These indicators should set the alarm bells for the whole society, because in 10 or 20 years these same children will be the ones who should take our life forward. According to the guidelines of the World Health Organisation, children should be moderately active for at least 60 minutes each day, while children should be engaged in high-intensity physical activity for at least three days a week. We know that children's physical activity benefits not only their health, but many studies have shown that the growth in physical activity also improves their educational success, concentration and behaviour. However, engaging in exercise not only helps to maintain spiritual and physical health but can have a much broader meaning. In the case of young people, engaging in recreational activities and engaging in exercise activities can help to prevent important forms of risk behaviour, such as alcohol and drug consumption, smoking and participation in crime. Positive occupancy reduces time when young people are inactive, as it is often when time is furnished with health - harmful habits. Here we could take the example once again from Iceland, which, in ten years, was able to bring young people's levels of alcohol consumption, smoking and cannabis down dramatically. This was done under the leadership of the state and local authorities by increasing funding for recreational activities. Each youth had a certain amount of money for which they could choose their own organized activities of interest. In addition, family policies contributed to increasing the time spent together between parents and children. Iceland has thus proven that well-thought-out cross-cutting activities can deliver very good results in a short period of time. From a public health point of view, one of the major concerns is the lack of physical activity, which is considered to be the fourth risk factor among those responsible for mortality. Looking at the causes of the deaths of Estonian people in the last decade, diseases of the bloodstream organs are at the forefront of competition, resulting in more than twice as many deaths in the last decade than in the tumours, which is the second most important among the causes of death. Unfortunately, we know that diseases in the bloodstream are considered to be lifestyle diseases, which can be prevented with a healthy lifestyle to a very significant extent, avoiding binge eating and being moderately physically active. Unfortunately, bad health also has an impact on the Estonian economy. It is known that poor public health can reduce Estonia's gross domestic product by as much as 6 to 15%. It is clear that the links between health and the economy are very broad. Poor health reduces the number of people who can work and the number and productivity of working people. There is an interesting tendency: if we manage to reduce mortality by 1.5% now, GDP per capita could increase by 14% after 25 years. The combined impact of reducing mortality and morbidity on the development of society and on the growth of population wealth would be even greater as expected. We are faced with a situation where the rise in living standards, the widespread spread of a sedentary lifestyle and technological development put public health under severe pressure. Although positive developments in health sport have been seen in the last 18 years, this development has been slow compared to the growth rate of factors that have a negative impact on health. At this point, it is very important that the state continues to stand for the fact that by 2030 we would have reached the point where two thirds of Estonia's people would engage in health sport at least twice a week. While improving opportunities for sport is essential for preventing unhealthy lifestyles, it is not possible to change the lack of mobility of people by simply building trails and sports buildings. Cross-cutting cooperation is essential to improve awareness of the severity of the problem and to change social attitudes. We must encourage the physical burden of people's daily activities by creating a living environment that favours walking and cycling and calls for more mobility for both young and elderly people. It is important to ensure more mobility opportunities, so that, regardless of age and economic situation, everyone is able to engage in activities that are suitable and suitable for his physical activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U218	Thank you very much. Ms Šmigun-Vähi, representative of the Reform Party Group, will now take the floor in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U219	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I am asking for the maximum amount of time I can take right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U220	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U221	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Culture, Happy Members of the Riigikogu and all other listeners! Man's health is his most precious earthly asset. I'm sure you'll all agree to that. I very much like the fundamentals of sport policy in 2020/2030. The country-wide objective of 2005 is worded as follows: "Movement and sport play an important and growing role in promoting the vitality of Estonians, creating wealth in the living environment and shaping the good reputation of the Estonian state. " Wonderful words! Only if we as a country contribute more and more to recreation and sport can we achieve the same mental and physical balance and prosperity as in the Nordic countries. That's what we're dreaming about. That's where we want to be. By sport, I do not mean directly the top sport, which will undoubtedly also play a very important role in our lives. It is a popular and positive contribution, so it is difficult to underestimate the share of top sport. We need role models and top sports will undoubtedly offer them. But it doesn't make us healthier and stronger as a nation. Our habits start from childhood. Parents are certainly a great example. Everything we acquire in our childhood is like a solid foundation for which it is good to build up the rest of our lives. It's part of this foundation. Every euro invested in sport brings the country back again because a healthy person achieves more in work and in personal life, and most importantly, he lives a longer and happier life. Not to mention that the state spends much less money on treating people with good health. It is the choice of a 21st - century welfare society, whether to move, exercise and stay healthy, or to be guided by comfort and, often, laziness. If there is anything good about the last year's pandemic, it is that we have learned to think more about our health and our health. The increase in the number of sports enthusiasts among both young and organised enthusiasts and the emergence of new sports organisations is very good news. The number of coach invitations is also increasing, but it is also saddening that young people who are becoming coaches will be given up. One reason for this is certainly [insufficient] pay. We must aim to bring it to the same level as school teachers [with remuneration]. Both teachers and coaches are equally important and play a major role in laying the same foundation that we reap throughout our lives. Of course, skills and habits acquired in kindergarten and school play a major role. I believe that through the education system, we can do a great deal for the health of Estonian children. For example, the University of Tartu has now joined 148 schools. Schools are of great interest. And you know, most importantly, the teachers are ready to organise new active hours to make our children's day healthier. But it's not all enough. We have to ask ourselves: how to attract Estonian people even more to sport and through it to a healthy lifestyle? This is a matter of strategic importance, because at the moment we are primarily dealing with the consequences. When a person is ill, we offer him quality and expensive treatment. But what savings would be like if we were all healthier and more athletic! Of course, this is not just a national problem and, above all, every person can do a lot for his or her own health. But we need to create even more opportunities for this, more walking and cycling routes, repaired parks and outdoor gymnastics areas. We can also make discounts when going to swimming pools or gyms. This would all be very well invested money and the state would be a seriously wise investor here. This is not just the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. A change of thinking is needed, to which the whole public sector would contribute jointly. The Commander of the Defence Forces, Martin Herem, has recently spoken in this Chamber, saying that the physical capacity of young people in military service is improving. This clearly shows that this potential exists in all of us. If the example of the Defence Forces is to be further developed, we must not lower standards, but we must find the same potential in every person and make it active. Let's not lower the bar and let's not run under that bar! I really enjoyed the words of the Minister of Culture, and I will conclude with them: "A healthy spirit in a healthy body. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U222	Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Indrek Saare. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U223	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Minister once again for this presentation and for the opportunity for us to once again discuss these fundamentals of sport policy with all our colleagues who are friends of sport. I also thank the Head of the Riigikogu, who promised that our sports friends who do not have so much, that allowing them to have a second question bad for the work of the Riigikogu may well be able to ask a second question in the next few times, because I would really like to ask and consider it through discussion. I am still pleased to note that this document adopted in 2015 in the Riigikogu works, travels. The then laid down sleepers have, in fact, given a line to the ministry as a curator in this field and to an area which, of course, was a very important party to the drafting of this document and which has led to a more orderly and systematic work. Something has been done again over the year, despite the fact that last year was special in some respects and the sport sector was also able to feel it on its own. I would like to mention some of the initiatives that I am very pleased about the continuation of, some of which have already been mentioned by the Minister. They're in the report. For the first time this year, the support of regional health sports centres was noticeable because winter was somewhat more generous in terms of minus degrees. One of the things that I hope this will remain so when it was created was that children in every county could learn to ski, because watching our winters, if there is no possibility of making artificial snow, a few generations of basic skills could be lost at all. This winter was especially good to see how the more diligent were able to prepare the tracks early, and skiing continued for a very long time. We hope that it will also provide a new basis for the future star flight of Estonian ski sports, not to mention the exercise that has been repeatedly spoken about today. I'm very glad this brave madness, Rally Estonia, actually succeeded. This is now where we see how the crisis can be used in a good way. In fact, the WRC phase reached Estonia several years earlier, when someone thought it was real. I hope that, even though today's head of government has been critical of the rally, the Minister will also be able to defend this position in this government. Such proud events, given that we have the top performer of the rally ourselves, could continue to be brought to Estonia. I am pleased that the agreement on the umbrella organisation for people with disabilities continued in last year's budget, i.e. the last monetary so-called rise doll that had been agreed, EUR 200000, went to it. And I very much hope that what is written about accessibility, the critical note that was in this [document], will provide the basis for us to critically review why we now often have the fact that the arrival of people with disabilities in the sport infrastructure is a special event, and why it cannot be part of their everyday life, just as it is for ordinary people to go to sports. That should be the case, for [disabled people] are exactly the same people who live in our society, even though they have a special side. They should be able to access these services in such a way that they do not incur any additional stress or that [they] do not have to organise anything further for that purpose. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U224	Yes, please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U225	I very much hope that the RES discussions, for which I welcome the promise that we received from the Minister, will also, when looking at the investments, realise that many sport investments are very good investments to relaunch the economy. [I hope] it is also viewed from this angle. More jobs can be created, long-term jobs can be created. I dream that one day we will also come to the point that sports clubs will no longer have to make sports schools in order to benefit from the tax exemption, which they are essentially justified in every way, so that this bureaucratic obstacle, which has been for a long time, can be resolved. And I hope that this breakthrough that has ever been achieved, that employers can compensate for workers' health care costs of EUR 400 per year, will now have the continuation of what employers have asked for and what the Social Democrats will certainly support: this amount should double, that could be EUR 800. In view of today's health situation and the ensuing consequences, the rehabilitation that people need, and in this context also mobility activities, this proposal is certainly justified. Trainers' salaries are one of the places I have to be critical about, but I'm glad the Minister made a promise that he was going to defend it at the RES. Trainers' salaries have remained completely stable for two years to a level that was not enough. Yes, in a few years we were able to raise this figure by about 70 to 80%, from 600 euros to 1000 euros. But 1,000 euros as a minimum wage for a young coach is obviously low. So much has been said about the role of trainers in society that it could be elementary. The Minister also said that these people will receive a motivating salary. I think there will also be fewer of the very unpleasant problems that we have recently been forced to talk about with the coaches. The exercise. Interestingly, I didn't notice in this document what happened to the Moving Invitation School. An example of Iceland's idea and Elva's example is here. But has the idea of the Moving Invitation School run out? I didn't find it. I hope that this idea will still live, because indeed, it is one [opportunity to improve the situation]. I saw what it really meant. This health crisis gave me the opportunity to deal with my child a little more and more systematically, and I realized how little time there would be for a school student to move within some other framework as part of a normal day if he could not move to school. Mobility opportunities must be integrated into school days. Finally, I would like to recall what the Minister mentioned: the Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics SA deserves all the support. Sport honesty must be guaranteed unambiguously. The raison d'être of funding from the state budget for sport, the existence of any justification, is that sport is fair and there are no nuances. The activities of Sport Ethics and Antidoping SA require full support, both financially and morally. Power to the sport! I hope that this crisis will give us new ideas on how to move forward in this area as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U226	Thank you. I beg you now, Raivo Tamm, representative of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U227	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for Culture for this presentation. Looking at the watch, I can't order any more time. I will try to speak up as quickly as possible, and I support the idea of fully supporting coaches in the field of sport. Recently, I participated in the first round table of coaches, convened by the coaches themselves, in order to enhance the status of coaches in Estonian society. The Coach Board could obviously be more valued than it is now, and as has been heard here today, [this] primarily concerns their remuneration, their salary. It is obvious that this profession is as valuable as being a schoolteacher's profession, and its value [is as high as that of a schoolteacher] in our society for our children, not only for children but also for adults. I was invited to talk to this round table about my experience with the coaches. I'm really saying, as a health athlete says, the hardest thing is a journey from the couch to the front door, but if you go out the front door and you're alone, it won't be easy for you if you don't have a coach. I think that it is very important to exercise wisely, not to act on your own or at the instigation of a friend. It is very important to join a group or training group to do all this under the hands of a coach. Smart sport is the most important thing. In order for smart sports to be viable in Estonia, I think that it is very important in all kinds of budgets, both in the supplementary budget and in the future budget, to pay very great attention to the Estonian coaching, their livelihood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U228	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The processing of this item is complete. Thank you to the Minister and to all those who ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U229	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending § 62 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Kruusimäe, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U230	Good coworkers! The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee met three times to discuss [this draft]: 15 February, 18 March and 5 April. In the last session, a major amendment was made, relating to paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 62. Their content is that the victim now has the right to access the misdemeanor file without having to go to court for it. All the decisions were consensual and the Commission decided to support the amendments. The third reading of the draft act, i.e. the final vote, could take place on 13 April 2021. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-08_U231	Thank you, good waitress, for a thorough presentation. Looks like there's no questions. There are no questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us now begin the examination of the amendments. One amendment has been received from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. And we have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 215. The second reading is closed and the third item is also closed. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have some more important information for you about what Martin Helme said this morning. There's one more thing now. Namely, a meeting will be held today to set up a global Estonian support group, and the convener will be Imre Sooäär. All members of the Riigikogu who wish to join this support group will now have the opportunity to do so immediately after the sitting in the Teams environment. According to my information, Imre Sooäär has sent this link to all members of the Riigikogu in an e-mail box. So if you wish, please open your e-mail address, go to this environment via this link and you can attend the meeting to set up a global Estonian support group. Well, the hearing's over. Thank you for your great support and help. Thank you.
