ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good Tuesday morning! We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U2	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science. This pushes the decision of the senate of Tallinn University not to open the Bachelor of Information Science curriculum next year, referring to the lack of money, where librarians are prepared. This decision has caused frustration among the leaders of libraries and other cultural people. Namely, Tallinn University is the only educational institution in Estonia that offers comprehensive education to librarians. And now several experts in this field have confirmed that this affects libraries and, in fact, the entire information sector and prevents the development of the information society as well as the viable development of Estonian folk culture and cultural heritage. We want an assessment by the Minister of Education and Research of whether and how the non-opening of the curriculum of information science will affect the availability of librarians and other information specialists in Estonia in 2022 and how the government intends to ensure the sustainability of the study of libraries and information professionals. In this inquiry, which has now been forwarded electronically to the sitting department, this situation has, of course, been described in more detail and questions asked in greater detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U3	Thank you. I would point out in a small detail that to hand over inquiries and drafts in the form of a remote hearing, press the call button, then it will go to the right box. But it's okay, we got the information. I don't see any more wishes. Therefore, on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and the Bureau normally decides on this procedure in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U4	88 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U5	Our agenda today is five points. The first point is an overview of the Government of the Republic's activities in the implementation of European Union policy and I will give you a quick overview of how we deal with this point. First, the presentation of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will be up to 30 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu will then have the opportunity to ask an oral question. Then Siim Kallas, Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes and once again the members of the Riigikogu will be able to ask an oral question. Only the representatives of the political groups will be present in the negotiations, and we will not take a decision when the debate is closed. Prime Minister, the Chair of the Riigikogu is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U6	Honourable Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! In some ways, this is an unprecedented situation where I stand before you with an annual review of the government's European Union policy for the second time this year. Last time it was March. Of course, issues relating to European development are not discussed only once a year, but every day. These issues are also national issues and have an important weight, which is why Europe's development needs to be treated with good-mannered care. This ratio also works in the opposite direction. When we look at these crucial national issues that have been discussed in this Chamber, such as the corona apandemia, fossil energy prices, climate crisis, forest strategy, inequality and security, they are also important European issues. Estonia's development and the development of the European Union are directly linked. The umbrella strategy "Estonia 2035" approved by the Riigikogu as well as other national development documents are an integral part of the European Union's policies in this area. A document on the priorities of the government's European Union policy for the next two years has been submitted to you, and this document is actually an extract from the most important developments, activities, interests and positions that are at the service of Estonia's development. If Europe is strong, then Estonia is strong, and vice versa. I hope that you will be as demanding about European Union affairs as you are about national drafts. As this is, among other things, an overview of policy implementation, I would like to highlight the following from the 2020/2021 period. Firstly, we reached an agreement on the European Union budget and the plan for relaunching Estonia. I would also like to thank the Riigikogu for the swift ratification of the own resources agreement. To date, most countries have negotiated and approved the investment and reforms of the re-launch plan, and agreements will soon be made to use fair transfers and Structural Fund funds. I continue to welcome the creation of a fair transition facility for Ida-Virumaa and the fact that it is estimated that almost EUR 3.3 billion of the grants allocated to us will go to the green turn. Another important keyword has been to overcome the health crisis and strengthen the overall resilience of the European Union. We have always learned from the crises. The borders have remained open, and the European Union's corona certificate has become a global standard of trust. There is also information flow, countries have shared crisis assistance, a comprehensive economic package has been created, and both vaccines and medicines have arrived as planned. A broad-based approach to security and crisis resistance has come to stay. Honourable Riigikogu! Speaking before you in March, I said that it has been in Estonia's best interests and should always be an aspiration to the core of the decision-makers of European politics and joint decisions, because it is the strongest guarantee of a small country to determine its destiny and future. You don't notice the silencer, but you don't listen to the screamer. It is therefore necessary to inspire, be credible and inventive in the face of common interests. It is the case that solidarity is also right to think of as enlightened self-interest. The government doesn't want to turn its back on friends and allies. Says a proverb that you know a friend in trouble. Demand and criticism are also in place when they are constructive. And if, for some reason, Estonia should say no, then only to offer an even better solution. Estonia consistently stands for European values and works to ensure that the voice of the European Union is effective and united in the world. It is important for the people and businesses of Estonia that Estonia stands for the four fundamental freedoms and internal markets of the European Union, and will also continue to stand for the fifth fundamental freedom, the free movement of data, because the data form a twin-turn strain. Estonia supports an ambitious digital and green pipeline, as well as paying attention to the social aspects of the transition, so that we do not forget people in the middle of it, leave anyone behind or run over anyone in the course of the changes. The turn of the green must be the turn of the people. Good Riigikogu! The European Union is and will remain, above all, the guarantee of peace and security. For me, trust and trust are the most important keywords in the coming period. "A friend knows a friend from his eyes, an enemy from an old war movie," says Hando Runnel to poetry. On the other hand, the heroes of the old war movies have buried the hatchet in the European Union, but they have been replaced by more and more conflicts operated by the autocracy that fears its people. Regrettably, the health crisis has led to closure and forms of exercising power have exacerbated this authoritarian tendency. Europe has always been a project of freedoms, which is why these tendencies are particularly painful. Despite our willingness to keep the world open, it seems to be moving again on the path of polarisation. Despite our belief that associations create cooperation and prosperity, they are also a source of conflict and dissatisfaction policies. So far, we worked on the belief that the global economy and the exchange of ideas would raise all boats as a tide, and with it, development would inevitably move towards democracy and the free market economy. We were naive when we believed that both prosperity and good governance, both technology and democracy, were wanted to be rid of authoritarian leaders and corruption. However, the well-being created is also used to cultivate muscle against freedom, to bully neighbours and minorities. By being in constant contact with others, we constantly compare ourselves to the best of ourselves. Moderate jealousy is a driving force. But constant comparison with those better than yourself can also lead to endless dissatisfaction. We live in a time of conflict more than ever. In a polarised world, we must inevitably choose who we work with, with whom we are connected, and how much interdependence is advisable, so that we lead dependence and not dependence on us. Dear Riigikogu! Mark Leonard, a well - known foreign policy expert, says in his recent book: "The price of war in the Dark Ages is incomprehensible. Therefore, connectivity wars have become a new way of making policy with other instruments. They are at lower prices, they are more effective, and as a result they become increasingly widespread. The more they spread around the world, the more deadly they become than conventional warfare." Of course, reliable connectivity is a huge opportunity. Globalisation and networking have helped create new opportunities not only for small countries and start-ups, but also for a large part of humanity. As the world's largest trader, the European Union has played a very important role in creating these new opportunities both inside and outside Europe. At the same time, connections and connectivity as a new and inexpensive opportunity in conflicts are a new level in which trust also plays a central role. The world is not made up of black and white choices, because they are above all values of trust. Interest or geography may be the basis for cooperation, but trust is based on common values, principles and agreements based on them. If values and rules differ, the border agreement and the border fence may also reduce distrust. Perhaps, as the poet Robert Frost has said, a certain border makes the neighbors bearable. We are seeing this very clearly and very close to us at the European Union-Belarus border. Poland, Lithuania and Latvia protect the European border. The European Union cannot submit to blackmail by a dictator, and the hybrid attack must be decisively brought to an end. Europe must be united here and Belarus must let the people used as weapons return to its countries of origin. Belarus is responsible for systematic violations of human rights against both its own and foreign citizens. The result of our action must not be a new channel of human trafficking to the European Union. Good Riigikogu! The main guiding motive for the government's European policy priorities is to increase cooperation, trust, as well as interdependencies and solidarity between allies and partners within Europe. We must offer these opportunities for cooperation to countries and organisations that stand up for rules-based arrangements and want to create a trust-based future. Of course, this part is also valued by a person's digital shift and the pursuit of climate and biodiversity objectives in their activities and supply chains. Trust cannot be based on making connections a trap, people a means or a common living environment unviable. The focus of Tallinn's digital summit on the idea of a reliable community came to a very good time to be a timely input to the forthcoming Global Gateway initiative, as well as to the democratic summit convened by the President of the United States, Joe Biden. I hope that we will come to a common understanding with the countries of the same kind, which could be included in the value-offering of reliable connectivity also in the construction of infrastructure. On the other hand, we should also accept that, in the context of increasing authoritarianism, the world has not for some time moved towards democracy and the free market economy. We are therefore forced to become competitive in a world that wishes to be very different from today and presents us with systemic challenges. Both our crisis experiences and our green and digital revolutions offer an excellent opportunity to withdraw from untrusted relationships and to overcome unhealthy dependence on critical issues, such as public health, communication, but also energy, in terms of the country's continuity of activity. The use of migration as a weapon, both in the south and in the east, has finally moved the European Union to reassess the need for common border standards and investment at the external borders. The European Single Sky is no place for those involved in human trafficking. The increasingly accurate identification of the origin of cyber attacks and their assignment clearly shows us where there are increasing vulnerabilities, both today and with digitalisation. There must be zero tolerance for corruption and money laundering. Our technological capacity and resilience to health crises, food security and security of energy supply are covered by a wide-ranging approach. We must have tools that are effective in fighting against associations and confidence in hurting. Our connections must be reliable and crisis-proof. All these areas are also reflected in government policy. In 30 years, we are catching up with the European Union average. Our superpower has been the ability not to use the word 'impossible', whether it is joining the European Union, the euro area or NATO or something else. This superpower has brought us to this day, and it will carry on. Is climate neutrality impossible in three decades? What would Estonia be like in three decades' time if we answered the question 'yes'? And what would Estonia be like if we answered the question 'no'? I recall that we began our journey to regain independence precisely because of pressure on our environment. About as much time as it has been since the restoration of independence, we now have time to reach climate neutrality. A little over half of this road will have to be completed in the coming decade, and it will be about as long as it took us to regain our independence until we become a member of the European Union and NATO. This week, the government will send to the Riigikogu views on the main choices of the European climate framework. I paraphrase what Mart Nut said three decades ago that there is no alternative to a green turn and that the free market economy must play a central role in finding solutions. Sustainability is our opportunity for development. You're asking how. Estonia's success story has been its curiosity about technology. We have understood the exponential growth allowed by digital technologies. It is witnessed by the number of unicorns and start-ups, the ability to build businesses and technologies, to raise capital and the best people in the world. Sten Tamkivi, one of the initiators of the Tigger Jump, believes that these experiences should also be put in the service of the next green turn. Our ability to understand exponential growth must now meet the ability to think systematically, including the understanding that there are natural boundaries on the planet that, without being controlled, can permanently damage ecosystems and trigger irreversible changes. The necessary changes are not just technical, as Tarmo Soomere, President of the Academy of Sciences says: "The last word in technology is not always the best solution. Smart implementation of traditional skills, matching local conditions and understanding and support for simple people are gaining weight. " We have no reason to prohibit the use of uninsulated houses, beef burgers, log-fired sauna ovens or cars driven by an internal combustion engine. However, in our plans for the future, we must bear in mind that greening means that environmental impacts are increasingly incorporated into all final products, services and supply chains. Business plans, ratings, loan agreements will play a role not only in the results but also in the energy spent and its footprint in the environment. We know that the cost of the green changeover is not only the volume of investment needed for this, but also the price we have to pay if we do not make the green changeover. Estonia is not an island or a planet that remains unaffected by other consequences and problems. The projected increase in the earth's temperature and its dependence on fossil fuels will reach us both directly and indirectly, today and tomorrow. After all, we do not want what is happening today on Europe's borders, which is being hijacked by autocrats, to be normal in the future when millions and billions move instead of thousands. The availability of clean, affordable energy is key to achieving both the welfare and climate goals, as well as attracting new green money-based investment here in the future. Businesses involved in German industries will feel this through the Greening of Supply Chains Act, which will enter into force immediately next year. It will certainly be amplified through the Nordic countries, and this will fill the circle of our main investors. Thus, the market itself will shift products and services towards a cleaner direction. Honourable Riigikogu! I said before you in the spring debate that climate neutrality could be thought of as a transition to clean energy. Our separation from the common energy network with Russia and Belarus and synchronisation with Central Europe is progressing according to the timetable. Although Estonia has been talking about this for a very long time, among the new proposals is that the electricity imported must be produced in a way that takes into account the climate objectives. Exporting issues looks good on paper, but it's green-washed. Competition in Europe must be based on trust and work on an equal footing and fairly. The confidence gap that allows greenwashing must disappear, and the border measure will help create this legal certainty to boost access to the clean energy market. In 2020, for the first time in the European Union, renewable energy sources advanced fossil fuels as the largest source of energy, producing 38% of electricity compared to 37% of fossil fuels. We have increasingly eliminated and removing obstacles to wind energy production both on land and in the Baltic Sea. In cooperation with Estonia and Latvia, we are developing a wind farm in Livonia and, in the long term, we want to see both the electricity grid covering the Baltic Sea countries of the European Union and the trans-European hydrogen network. It must also be possible to produce energy from bioenergy complying with the sustainability criteria and the cascade principle during the transitional period. Safe and secure nuclear energy must have a place as a transition energy. Nuclear energy already exists today in the Estonian portfolio through the Nordic electricity market and is welcome in the future. Gas fuels will also remain a transitional fuel in our portfolio. Returning to trusting and using connections in conflicts, I welcome the principled decision of the German regulator not to certify the Nord Stream 2 pipeline if the conditions for doing so are not met. The government launched a review of the Energy Economy Development Plan last Thursday, and two weeks ago we decided that, on the basis of European climate agreements, we would also review the Mobility Development Plan. It is clear that electricity has an important role to play in future transport, but the role that hydrogen will play in Estonia in the future, the answer must be the hydrogen programme of 55 million euros and the hydrogen road map that will be completed by the end of the year. We have set up a panel of experts at the government's Green Policy Committee and I am counting on expert proposals for the most effective and cost-effective measures. Good Riigikogu! The European Union is as active as we want it to be. Estonia stands for the European Union to be a strong, developing and growing organism and Estonia to be an effective member of it. Europe is still a peace project, but we have to deal with the changed situation of hybrid conflicts. We are used to thinking of the European Union as a regulatory superpower, a jointly agreed enforcement and mediator of standards, but Europe is also a project of freedoms that must not be forgotten during a pandemic. The European Union is present in people's lives on a daily basis. The best example of this is not only the Erasmus programme and the euro, but also the COVID vaccines and the vaccine certificate. In resolving the hybrid crisis, it is a pleasure to note that Europe's situational awareness has improved and its sleeves have been fermented. We are also becoming increasingly aware of real and effective support, cooperation and also solidarity on a daily basis. And citizens want more and more Europe. The Riigikogu also has the opportunity to contribute to strengthening the image of Estonia's European Union within this year's number, because a number of laws are waiting for adoption. It also depends on whether Estonia enforces its commitments on time and still belongs to the circle of friends of the pro-European internal market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U7	Prime Minister! Members of the Riigikogu would like to ask you. Mikhail Lotman will begin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U8	Thank you. Thank you for this very nice speech. I have some questions. You were talking about the free market economy being the one that's moving forward, and we're moving towards more freedom. At the same time, we see very clearly that the free market economy in the European Union is increasingly regulated and targeted all the time. It's the same one. I'm not against it at all. But this is a very good example of the fact that the free market economy is clearly targeted and regulated and does not move on its own, say, free road. The same is true of other freedoms. For example, freedom of speech. Freedom of expression is the basis for all other human rights, but we can see that it is increasingly targeted and regulated. Wouldn't you like to comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U9	Thank you. Partly, I agree that these major trends require certain political support when we are talking about a green turn. But the reason why I am talking about the free market economy and that the market economy plays an important role here is that we now see that this pressure actually comes from below, that consumers want to see more of this awareness of the green environment in chairs and services. And financial institutions have also contributed to this pressure. If we think that the financial institutions were actually involved in the last climate conference, then that means that if they start thinking about how it will affect the environment when granting loans, it will not come from regulation, but because the market will behave differently. But, of course, there are also tendencies that do not indicate that the free market economy and the market will decide everything. Now the other half of this question concerning freedom of expression. We have a unique situation. We actually have such growing information wars and conflicts on this subject. For example, the discussion in this same COVID crisis has shown how far freedom of expression goes and how much censorship must be given to what people read. That's because it can be just a pure lie and that lie will live its life. It is a question of whether social media platforms must be the ones playing this policeman, or whether it should still be decided by the states. But I can still see in the big picture that freedom of expression and other freedoms are one of the fundamental principles of Europe, for which Europe stands. And all the new challenges associated with these information wars are major and systemic challenges both for Europe and, in fact, for all democratic regimes, how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U10	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U11	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing this issue. Prime Minister! I also thank you for this report. I liked its specificity, but I have to admit, it wasn't all the same. And I have this more general, but it's a relatively fundamental question. In fact, I dare draw your attention to the fact that the European Union and Europe, which you then consider to be sometimes synonymous, are not really identical concepts. Europe has many more countries than the European Union and European civilisation is hundreds of times older than the European Union. And my question is partly because you spoke about European values in your speech. And the question is this: are European values really the values of the European Union in your sense, or are they the values of this European civilisation, which is several thousand years old?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U12	Thank you. European values are European values, on which the European Union is also based.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U13	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There are billions of mineral resources in Estonia's underground, including rare earth metals. We are one of the four countries that have them. As for the green turn, however, we basically lose the jobs of miners and lose our own ability to carry out these diggings and to use these minerals. I asked Keit Pentus-Rosimannus here during the budget procedure who would then mine. He said very awkwardly that maybe some company or company would come from somewhere. Now I ask you, as a follow-up question, that as head of the government, you must also have a plan, who will then mine them and how this process will take place, given that, according to § 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, natural resources are national wealth.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U15	Thank you. First, there are a number of people in Ida-Virumaa who have these skills and who work in mines. These are very hardworking people with very specific skills. Fortunately, there is also a fair transition fund that will help attract new investments in this region precisely in order, in fact, to create new jobs for these very hardworking people. What you are pointing out, which concerns earth metals, indeed, is one of the topics. Fortunately, in this government, we have decided to explore what we have in the first place, after all, we have not actually studied these mineral resources in this form and what opportunities are there. So we are working to ensure that the green turns that take place over the years, not abruptly, will not mean that people in the region will remain unemployed, but that there will be new jobs that are cleaner and with a smaller environmental footprint.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U16	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U17	Good manager! Prime Minister! As a nice poetry morning is here, thank you for that! But you're one of the most famous wind lobbyists to watch your resume. But do you know that proverb that until the new well is ready, you don't spit in the old one? I'm asking if the government, under your command, has spit in an old well before the new one is ready. And I recall von der Leyen when he came to power and, in the case of a green turn, predicted that 2030 would be the price of 52 [EUR] tonnes of CO2. It's 67 today. This means that the whole system does not hold water and needs to be reviewed. But if the basic structures are rotten, how can it go on with confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U18	Thank you. This price of CO2 actually shows that we actually need to make rapid changes in order to obtain energy from a cleaner energy source. And if your question was whether the government had spit in the old well before the new one was finished, then there isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U19	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U20	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good waitress! You said that the European Union is no longer moving towards democracy. That's right, unfortunately. At the same time, the European Union is a project of freedom which, unfortunately, deprives us of our freedoms. In reality, all we have done is give the European Union its freedoms, abandon its permanent values and traditions, and create a new Europe with new people and new revolutionary ideas and mass bureaucracy, already known to us in Soviet style, where there is no place for national values and what makes our grandmothers cry and our grandfathers laugh. The so-called 'European values' that you have highlighted, this is the path towards giving up, the abandonment of values that have been the bearers of Europe's strength and dignity. Good waitress, will the European Union remain only a growing problem, or will it be able to actually solve some problems, apart from spraying slogans and cultivating thought neutrality? I would ask for an example of what existing problems the European Union has solved in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U21	Thank you. First of all, I said that the world is not moving towards democracy. I wasn't talking about the European Union, I was talking about trends in the world. Secondly, a very clear answer to your question: vaccines and vaccine certificates are clearly a success story. At present, more than 40 countries around the world are already taking over this vaccine certificate, which is being used by the Member States of the European Union, and more and more are coming. This is actually a problem to take from a very close history. But I would also kill the ball that Europe somehow suppresses nations. On the contrary, if you think about cultural specificities, how many different programmes are actually present so that the cultures of all European nations can be supported, represented. Let us take the fact that we now have a film festival for the Dark Nights, where there are a lot of different films, all of which are known to other European countries, because there are rules in Europe that promote cultural diversity in every way. These examples include: the Erasmus programme, the fact that young people can study at other universities, to move freely. In my opinion, the most important principle in the European Union is the free movement of people, that we have no borders between countries and that we can move freely within Europe, our goods, our services, our people. There are very, very many success stories and, in any case, we ourselves have still benefited very much from Europe, especially as a small country. So it's definitely one thing. And if we take, for example, the same hybrid attack that is currently taking place by Belarus, then Europe has still reacted quickly by imposing sanctions: the same sanctioning of flights so that human traders cannot fly and bring these people here. There is a great deal of evidence that Europe has acted coherently, quickly and in a way that benefits all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U22	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U23	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! We talk a great deal about the green turn and very much about the green turn is about the tributary of the Riigikogu as well as the European Union. But I have a question that we had last week's oil shale conference in Ida-Virumaa where we discussed the use of oil shale. And that is why we have created the Põlevkivi Competence Centre in Ida-Virumaa, who must and will deal with oil shale exploration and problems of how to use oil shale on a daily basis. I have a question for you specifically to obtain confirmation from you that our government and you personally support oil shale development and oil shale exploration. After all, the oil shale is not alone a black energy source, but is one of our values, as a result of which we can also produce clean energy in the future and produce different products from oil shale. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U24	Thank you. Oil shale is one of the fossil fuels with a very, very large environmental footprint. We have agreed that we will reduce the use of oil shale in electricity production, end it by 2030, and then in energy production by the state by 2040. It's all for us to have a cleaner environment, and we'd be working with a smaller environmental footprint. The fact that mineral resources are being investigated is, in my opinion, very positive, but it also seeks to find more environmentally friendly ways that do not actually burden the climate and the environment in this way, is also positive and must be taken forward. If we look at the trends that are in the world, if we look at the trends that are in Europe, then it is clear that the use of oil shale as an energy source is just getting so much more expensive that we cannot afford it. This is what we will actually see in the near future, and that is why we must definitely think about alternatives to energy production.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U25	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U26	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madame Kallas! I remembered a very distant time when I was a boy when I listened to you. And I'm sorry for the natural scene I'm describing, but there was no toilet paper at the time, and I read on the front page of the newspaper that this generation will already have the happiness of living in communism. Even when I was a kid, it was clear that this was bullshit. Now, if I'm listening to you, all this talk you're talking about is describing some kind of pretty plan for a vague future. How do these plans materialise? At what cost do they realize? What do they bring to the well-being of the Estonian people? These questions are all open, there is no answer to them. Only an over-ideologized stamp is that, because it is Europe, it is good. Have you done the analyses that the implementation of these things means for the Estonian people, for their well-being, for our survival as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U27	Thank you. As I said in my speech, we not only have to calculate what green turns and these investments mean financially, but we also actually have to calculate what it means when we say we are doing nothing. And actually, the cost that comes with us if we do not take one step, we think that we are an island, we are here on our own and we are here on our own, and this cost will be greater for the Estonian state and the people than we are taking these steps. I'm not idealizing it, I'm not saying it's not gonna be complicated and difficult. But do we really have an alternative? I don't think so. This increase in energy prices is, in my view, a good example. When electricity grew, renewable energy sources are actually cheap. Let's look at the Nordic electricity market and what's the so-called cheaper energy. Our economy, we all consume a lot of energy, and we want to go on living this life. But how we do it, that's what we have to think about. So, in fact, [it is not only necessary] this calculation, which is going to cost the shelves, but also this calculation, which will cost Estonia, the people of Estonia and the state if we do not take these necessary steps. It must be taken into account in exactly the same way and put into second consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U28	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U29	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! On the current attempts to launch illegal mass migration through Belarus, you said that we cannot accept the creation of a new channel for human trafficking in the European Union. Would you call us an old human trafficking channel and its creator? So far, we have heard nothing but the terms'refugees' and'migration'. You have even said that we really need these refugees. Now we know that people who wanted to move through Belarus to Europe have paid for it, and not little, and in fact we also know that those to whom Angela Merkel said in 2015: "Welcome!" they had also arrived in Europe for money. And somebody got that money. Who? So who really was involved in human trafficking at the time? Do you have any information about who set up these old human trafficking networks by now? And is it not the case that this new human trafficking...... was triggered by these tendencies and by the people who dealt with it earlier, and this, as in principle, was encouraged by those earlier European 'Welcome'! projects? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U30	Thank you. Each crisis, or every crisis, actually relies on the lessons learned in previous crises. And certainly the activities of the current hybrid conflict also have a great deal to do with the lessons learned in 2015. Now, the question of who is involved in the mediation of these people is a criminal organisation. And it's really law enforcement that's trying to catch them and cut up those chains. In fact, the point of sanctions by the European Union and the United States is, on the one hand, to sanction Belarus, of course, so that it stops escalating this crisis, but, on the other hand, also to sanction those airlines that bring these people to Belarus, and certainly to apprehend those smugglers. After all, there have been smugglers or traffickers like this during all the crises, even during the migration crisis that was in the Mediterranean and which is still going on there. Organised crime and combating it are certainly part of how to deal with crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U31	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, At the beginning of your presentation, you immediately called out such a beautiful slogan that Estonia stands for European values. Now, if we look at what's going on in our country, we'll see, say, a vaccination of pressure, which you don't want to call a forced vaccination in any way, but which is very similar in nature. We see discrimination on the basis of vaccination. And I would like to know whether this'mandatory vaccination', discrimination is the European values we stand for. And then I would like to know whether the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is less important than these same European values.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U33	Thank you. After all, the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia also states that no freedom and right is absolute, but freedoms and rights are limited to the freedoms and rights of other people. When we are talking about preventing the spread of an infectious disease, it is possible to impose restrictions in order to actually protect society, to protect members of that society. That's right, every freedom is limited to the freedoms of other people. It is written in our constitution, but these are also European values. I think nobody likes us to deal with this pandemic. Nobody likes governments to take difficult decisions to prevent the spread of infectious disease. And we all hope that time ends. But as long as it has not actually ended, as long as there is still a threat to people's lives and health and to hospitals that cannot cope with it, certain freedoms must be limited as much as is necessary to protect the freedoms of others. So this freedom is not absolute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U34	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U35	[[Remote connection]] Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U36	It's nice to hear, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U37	Thank you. I'm having some kind of glitch here. But I have a very simple question. Prime Minister! You talked about cooperation, and you also claimed that we had to choose who we were working with. Please explain who you mean by them. Who are the people we work with, and who are the ones we don't work with? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U38	Thank you. A good example is now what Belarus and Russia are actually doing. We have to choose who we work with, who share the same values with us. For example, if we are connected, in a conflict situation, there is a chance that such a connection will be exploited. A good example here is Nord Stream, this pipeline, which Russia actually uses with different values, because it can do this and its value area is different. After all, these features have gone very, very clearly, and Europe, including us, should cooperate with those countries that we trust, who share the same value area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U39	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U40	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Prime Minister, for a very constructive presentation. My question fits well at the end. Indeed, the Eastern Partnership has been very important for Estonia, and in fact, just as it was for us to join the European Union that it was important to keep this hope alive for others. Indeed, in addition to the fact that, as you said, the European Union is a project of peace, isn't it also such a project of hope? How can [in your view] this hope be maintained for the neighbouring countries of the European Union in the context of the corona crisis and, in fact, in the current security situation, and what can Estonia do for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U41	Thank you. That's a very good question. Yes, hope is something that drives action. And when we talk about the Eastern Partnership countries, when we go there, when we talk to these people, it really is hope, I wouldn't say going out, but it's bad. So far, for example, the Baltic countries that have joined the European Union have been mentioned all the time. Look, they got it! But it's been 17 years, and new examples are actually needed. That is why what is happening in the Western Balkans, for example, in Northern Macedonia, which has, as if, fulfilled all the conditions, should be able to take some further step, because it is actually hope for everyone else. We know that there are major problems in the Eastern Partnership countries when we talk about the rule of law when we talk about corruption and issues that do not really match European values. In order for these countries to take the necessary steps, they themselves must have political will, but there must also be hope to have this political will. And if, on the other hand, you can see that, for example, I don't know, Northern Macedonia meets these criteria, it's like it's all done, but it still can't take that next step, it's definitely killing hope for others, too. So this is a very difficult and very complicated question. On the one hand, the actions and wishes and political will of these Eastern Partnership countries themselves, but on the other hand, how Europe is fulfilling its promises that have been made. That hope still needs to be held up and not killed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U42	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U43	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! You spoke of the lessons that Estonia and Europe have learned in the previous and this migration crisis or in a more modern word in the hybrid war. How do you feel about what the European Union and, more importantly, what Estonia has learned or learned from the experience of the Swedes of our good overseas neighbours? It's probably not a secret to you that there's essentially 365 days of hybrid war going on there: migrants trigger bombs, shoot guns, war between criminal gangs. For example, what could Estonia have learned or learned from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U44	Thank you. We are talking about a hybrid attack on the border between Belarus and the European Union, because the Belarusian regime uses people as a weapon. These people are being brought legally to Belarus on the basis of a visa and are being illegally pushed across the borders of the European Union. It is therefore like a hybrid conflict, as it is orchestrated by the Belarusian regime. That is why it is not a migration crisis, because it goes on a whole different basis. We will have to learn from all the Member States, from one and the other. These lessons need to be carefully mapped and not made the same mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U45	Good Prime Minister! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Siim Kallas, Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, is now invited to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Members of the Riigikogu, guests and other listeners! The year 2021 is coming to an end. It is time to take stock, but also look to the future. Thank you to the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Government, for giving an overview of the European Union's policy. On the side of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I will reflect the Riigikogu's view of what happened during the year and I will put some emphasis on the future. The European Union Affairs Commission has also had to work in a video format already familiar this year because of the pandemic. We designed Estonia's positions on 49 European Union initiatives, confirmed the positions of 107 Council meetings of the European Union, conducted four parliamentary debates, held nine joint sessions with other committees during the year, and we have just organised a debate on a matter of major importance in the large Chamber on climate objectives. That's a lot. That is how we have been involved in the European Union's decision-making processes. Good listeners! We are facing old and new challenges in Europe. COVID's crisis is anything but averted. The economy tends to be reluctant and overheated, while the European Union is under an organised hybrid attack. Energy prices are unprecedentedly high, and the green and digital revolutions are not getting any momentum. Sneaky protectionism. Dealing with challenges requires a joint effort by Member States. Would it be impossible, but very ineffective, to act in an uncoordinated manner, and everyone just looking at their own asses? The agreed approaches and common systems developed have helped the European Union to become rather strong in crises this year. Does the European Union also mean security? The initiative of the Schengen Strategy to improve our internal security came to the table of the Committee on European Union Affairs to decide. The Schengen system is a pillar of European security. On the one hand, it means a huge set of benefits, allowing the free movement of people and goods. During the pandemic, this system was badly damaged. The pandemic has highlighted the economic aspect of the Schengen area and its intrinsic link with the single market. Many Member States introduced internal border controls which put the proper functioning of the single market at risk. Following the initial lack of coordination, the European Commission opened Green Corridors for the transit of essential goods and adopted guidelines on the free movement of workers and emergency assistance in cross-border healthcare, as well as recommendations on the management of external and internal borders. On the other hand, the Schengen system, together with the Prüm Convention and the European Arrest Warrant, is the foundation of European internal security. The VIS, SIS and Eurodac information systems make it possible to radically improve cooperation between law enforcement authorities. Based on the experience of the Coronary Apandemia, the European Commission intends to present a new proposal to amend the Schengen Borders Code by the end of this year. A few years ago, terrorism was the main problem of European security. From 2015 onwards, we can consider the fight against illegal migration to be a fundamental security problem without, of course, remembering the terrorism that is still alive. Enhancing cooperation between the information collections mentioned above will also work in this area. We include more effective protection of the external borders in cooperation with Member States and the expansion of the Frontex border agency. At the moment, our region is under threat from a hybrid attack to the east. Two weeks ago, we also discussed the situation with the chairmen of the European Union Affairs Committees of the Baltic and Polish parliaments and joined the joint statement of the Foreign Affairs Committees. Cyber security is a new issue, but crucial to security. Raising the minimum threshold for cyber security requirements across the European Union is necessary, as critical services needed for the continuity of society are increasingly dependent on information technology, as well as increasing cross-border impacts. The Committee on National Defence, which gave an opinion to the EUAK, considered that, although the EU Cyber Security Directive does not extend to military activities, cybersecurity of civil structures is essential in view of the broad approach and security interests of national defence. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, we will soon discuss the European Commission's recommendation to establish a common cyber unit. The objective of the unit would be to coordinate the Union's action in preventing, detecting, deterring and responding to large-scale cyber incidents and crises. The development of cyber security measures is complex, time-consuming and resource-intensive activities that make it sensible to approach it collectively by sharing best practices and knowledge. An example is that it was Czech scientists who identified the risk associated with the ID card. Therefore, the existence of a coordination body is critical. For there to be peace on our borders, the European Union's neighbourhood policy and development cooperation formats are extremely important. I believe that we need to support even more neighbourhood countries. The pandemic has enabled the economic and hunger crisis in third countries, which is why Europe's contribution is even more important than the Union's principles and security. Good listeners! The European Commission has been remarkably active this year, embracing the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs, including in the field of Digitematics. The digital sector offers us both opportunities and huge challenges. We see the impact of social media and large digital platforms on our societies. Digitalisation creates opportunities for us, but at the same time we are increasingly vulnerable in the digital environment. We have supported Estonia's position on the creation of a valid COVID-19 digital certificate across Europe. Digital proof is an excellent example of cooperation between Member States. It is quickly created and well-functioning across the Union. The European Commission presented a legislative proposal in March and already three months later the certificate was in use. It has been a true success story, and it has helped us to regain many of our freedoms within the Union. This is a good example of how it is possible to quickly agree and implement digital solutions between Member States. Due to the technological use of the QR code, it is also highly fraud-proof. The format created is now becoming successful globally. More than 600 million certificates have already been issued. In addition to the European Union, 49 countries from four continents are participating in the system, and dozens more have requested this. It is necessary to continue to accelerate processes for the recognition of evidence with third countries. The European Union Affairs Commission has given its approval to combat the pandemic through support for a joint initiative on the donation of vaccines. Obstacles preventing the worldwide introduction of vaccines urgently need to be removed and Member States should be able to accelerate the supply of donated doses of vaccine to the countries most in need. Good Riigikogu! By October this year, inflation in the euro area has risen to 4.1%. In history, both we and many other countries have experienced much higher inflation, but it is still worryingly higher than 2%, which is prescribed for the euro by the Stability and Growth Pact. It is easy to say that the European economy has a turnover of EUR 15.2 trillion. It's a so-called money offer, marked with a letter and a number with an M3. The security of the euro is not gold bars, it is the policy of the euro countries, the European Central Bank. The main rule for the circulation of money is that the amount of money in circulation, the supply of money cannot be greater or less than the stable volume of the economy, the supply of goods and services at stable prices. Then the euro will be more or less the same in our pocket as today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. During the pandemic, a number of money has been put into circulation to alleviate the crisis. This has been necessary and natural in such a situation. Funds have been added to the circulation of money through the Renewing Finance Facility (refinancing facility) of EUR 750 billion and through a new long-term budget. The relaxed state aid rules and the European Central Bank's open lending policy have opened the door to increasing public deficits. The major injections of funds launched by the European Central Bank last spring to support the economy at the beginning of the pandemic should end in spring. In my previous speech on the policy review of the European Union, I pointed out that the decision on the European Union's own resources in all Member States still needs to be approved in order to implement the recovery package. This decision was made in the Riigikogu in Estonia on 10 May. By the end of the same month, all Member States had ratified their instruments in accordance with their constitutional requirements. All the recovery plans have also been on the European Union Affairs Commission's desk and Estonia's plan was approved by the European Commission and the Council in autumn. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said in his annual speech that, in view of the future, we must also think about how the crisis has affected our economy from the increased debt burden to the different impact on sectors. The European Commission therefore resumed its debate on the economic governance framework in October. On the subject of the introduction we have received in the Committee on European Union Affairs within the framework of the Eurogroup and the ECOFIN Council, but detailed discussions are still pending with the Government of the Republic and with us. Budgetary rules must be such as to guide countries to collect buffers and reduce excessive debt in times of economic growth, thus securing the means to implement stabilisation measures during periods of economic downturn and crisis. With the flexibility of the rules, the impact of the crisis on the economy and people was mitigated. Today, however, the weaknesses identified before the crisis have become even [more evident]. Budgetary support measures have increased deficits and debt levels in all Member States. I consider it important to respect the agreed objective of sustainable public finances and to return to the budget rules over the next few years. In view of the long-term challenges facing the European economy, particular attention and debate is certainly needed to promote green, digital and resilience-enhancing public investment. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In the summer, the European Commission further developed its current climate target by presenting a draft package entitled "Objective 55." Under the leadership of the European Union Affairs Committee, discussions on the comprehensive package took place in the autumn, involving sectoral committees, and less than a week ago, a debate on this issue was also held in the Riigikogu's plenary. The parliamentary debate at the end of October with Eesti Energia highlighted the fact that Estonia has already met the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70% by 2030 in 2020 but has not sufficiently developed renewable energy capabilities. The offshore renewable energy strategy was published in November 2020, with the European Commission aiming to increase offshore wind generation capacity from the current 12 gigawatts to at least 60 gigawatts by 2030. Given the size of European and Estonian maritime regions, offshore renewable energy has great potential. If we used up the entire potential of Estonia's sea winds, we would cover all Estonia's electricity needs and survive. Estonia considers it important to step up cooperation in the Baltic Sea region in order to accelerate the development of marine wind energy and marine network. Cross-border projects can also benefit from European Union support. The debate on the 'Objective 55' initiatives has only just begun. It is likely that the debate on the drafts to achieve climate neutrality will in the near future be a significant part of the work plan of the Riigikogu committees and the plenary assembly. Good listeners! For a few years now, we have been talking about a conference for the future of Europe. Brexit opened a substantive debate, and this year, action was taken. The events of the conference on the future of Europe are under way across the Union, including Estonia. National parliaments are involved. The Committee on European Union Affairs will have the opportunity to attend the plenary meetings of the conference with a delegation of four members. Two sessions have taken place today, and the third will take place in mid-December. The members of the assembly are divided into nine thematic working groups. I have the honour of participating in the economic debate. Riina Sikkut represents us in the Working Group on the Digital Transition, Oudekki Lone on Migration and Anti Pool Office in the debates on European democracy. The management of the Digital Work Group was entrusted to Riina Sikkut and Elina Valtonen, a member of the Finnish Eduskunna, with the consensual decision of the national parliaments. At the first working group meeting that had already taken place, Riina Sikut highlighted the consensus of the members of the working group. This means that Europe should create an ethical, human-centred, transparent and secure digital society. In last year's speech, I was moderately critical of the conference on the future of Europe, and there have also been many critical notes about the conference today. But I believe that it is in the digital field that the conference could, with the help of Estonia, direct European initiatives and boost them. I repeat here one of the fundamental principles for Estonia that changes in the functioning of the European Union must take place without amending the Treaties. Honourable listeners! The European Union is not only dealing with crisis management, it is also acting strategically. In September, the President of the European Commission, Ursula van der Leyen, stated: "In order to strengthen the European ideal of Schuman, work must be done on an ongoing basis. And we must not deny our contradictions and shortcomings. Although our alliance is not perfect, it is both wonderfully unique and uniquely wonderful. " For my part, I add that only by working together and overcoming contradictions can we go further. The Member States and their delegated institutions will do their utmost to enhance the well-being of all of us in this unique Union. We are also contributing to this by the national parliaments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U47	And colleagues have questions. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your speech, in my view, has, for good reason, shown a sense of concern with regard to the European Union's finances. Inflation is increasing, printing machines are working on full lines. At the same time, Estonia is, as if, moving in a different direction, on the course of such traditional austerity and, let's say, a well-balanced budget. Who do you think is actually wrong: is the European Union going in the wrong direction or has Estonia actually made a little wrong with its course?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U49	That's a very big question. Of course I'd be happy to answer that. In fact, the whole of the European Union has decided to turn back the course and to save more in order to reduce the debt burden. What do the numbers indicate now? As I mentioned, for example, the heart of the matter is the euro, the amount of euros in circulation, i.e. EUR 15.2 trillion. Now that we are taking the most recent data, we can see that in October inflation was 4.1% in Europe as of the year, economic growth was 3.4%. If we multiply these times each other, we're going to get an adequate growth of 7.9%, but it actually increased by 7.4%. So it kind of tightens up a little bit. And that is a big problem, because if inflation is lost, then [the consequences] are known by the whole world, Germany knows, but I think we know just as well the end experience of the Soviet Union when inflation was 1000 percent. And the Germans had it in astronomical numbers. So stopping it is a key issue for us to have the same money in our pockets today and tomorrow. And, let's say, inflation is considered normal at 2%. If it goes really below zero, it's gonna start pushing all the economic activity in the other direction. So that's what we're looking at today. And, of course, fighting the debt burden is a difficult thing. The pandemic came and, in order to counter the pandemic, all countries, including Estonia, were putting large sums of money into circulation. The recovery package is the last big, very big package. If, say, the seven-year budget in Europe is a trillion, a little over a trillion, then 750 billion is not far from it, that is a huge amount. But it all finally has to be [repayed]. It is not, in this sense, uncoverable money that is put into circulation, it is in fact in the form of loans and it is at some point in time to be repaid. So there's also a reversal option. But I think this is one of the most serious problems. Everyone has their own points of view, of course, but I am a person in this area, and I keep looking closely at what the tables of the European Central Bank show.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U50	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the end of October, Italian Prime Minister G20 said the following words: we must ensure that 70% of the world's population has been vaccinated by mid 2022. And the next words he had were that we were very close to the WHO target of vaccination by the end of 2021 for 40% of the population. At the same time, however, the WHO has made an enormous number of mistakes and has also publicly recognised them in relation to vaccination. Vaccines are known to have a significant number of side effects, including fatalities. How do you assess, let's say, vaccination against all of this, when it's just experimental drugs that are still in the experimental phase, the end result of which is not known?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U52	Vaccination has saved a great many people in the history of the world. Don't forget about tuberculosis, don't forget about the smallpox we were vaccinated against when we were [little children]. At least I was vaccinated when I was a little kid. And other diseases like that. So, actually, it's a discovery that maybe you should consider TBB discoverer Fleming turned on. However, it can also be said that, for example, the known HIV virus has so far failed to develop a vaccine [to be developed]. Well, that's one question in which any self-respecting public figure today is also a competent virologist. I'm not suggesting that. I don't know how to answer that question either. What I can say as a person who has been pretty much in some decisive position in his life is still reminding me of a sentence in military science that a commander never has enough time, information, or resources to make a decision, but a decision has to be made. And that's right, right, and now we're analyzing a lot of things ex-post. In retrospect wisdom is known to be the most advanced science in the world. I can't answer that. I'm not really competent, it's a monstrous problem that hit everyone unexpectedly. And some made similar decisions in this unexpected situation, others made different decisions. But I'm not a virologist, and I hope that together we can somehow overcome this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U53	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U54	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Thank you for your interesting presentation. But I'd like to ask you about this future conference, but it's not gonna make it. But I'm asking you this. Yesterday, Juhan Parts presented to us [Commission] how this money is being used in Europe, the billion being used. The Court carried out a devastating assessment of the use of these millions and billions in Europe. Hidden fraud, corruption, over 300 billion lying around on shelves untapped. You've seen this stuff from the inside. How do you assess this last report by the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U55	Yes, thank you! I was responsible for six years, almost six years for this other half. I was the one who argued with the Court of Auditors, and I am very familiar with the subject. What surprised me in that presentation yesterday was, of course, an unused $300 billion, which seems to be a huge amount of money. Indeed, not all contracts have been completed, but this money will not be lost; in any case, this money will be used at some point. But most of all, the percentage of errors is said. And the thing is, it's a percentage of mistakes, it's not stolen money, it's not lost money. That's the percentage of errors. In time, there was much to argue with a person like Nigel Farage and others, including the British press. I went to London to explain these details. As soon as this report came out, they said it was confirmed that 4% of the money had been stolen. And so it was yesterday, I can't remember what that percentage was, I think it was smaller, but like every year that percentage is. And after much of these errors are corrected so that these [amounts] are not lost. At least in my time, it was that in the end, when several years began to look at how far they went, a very large part of these errors were corrected. But, in general, it can be said that, in fact, the management of European Union money is quite good. Unfortunately, it has to be said that there is a huge bureaucratic apparatus for this, including in Estonia. There are a huge number of rules that those who pay the money want to put on all the time, and those who accept the money want to reduce. There's always an eternal struggle around it. With regard to these rules here, university people can talk about how ridiculous the funding documents for these projects are. But on the other hand, I have also been involved in these discussions a lot, and it is a distrust that money is being misused. Those who give money are suspicious. As a whole, the use of money in the European Union is quite normal. There's more propaganda about the percentage of mistakes, but it's not that big. It is not so nice to answer so long, but yesterday Juhan Parts also read out what is stated in the European Treaties: the Court of Auditors must give, well, there was the concept of statement of assurance, but in the old days it was DAS No one can ever guarantee this in any country. It can't be done. And that is why the Court of Auditors will never give this declaration of assurance. But in the end, it will be given by the European Parliament and the Council. The Court of Auditors shall be a large and powerful body and shall exercise control. But all this complexity and these errors are at Member State level and precisely around these projects. And all this complexity also produces mistakes, and these funds are also lost, let's say, in the areas to which it is directed. In the previous period, the total amount of these four structural investment funds was 580 billion. That is the largest amount of money from the budget and its use is an enormous amount of work. But it's a very big subject, yes. Not everything can be exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U56	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thankfully, you also addressed the issue of public finances in your presentation. I want to ask you the same thing. You mentioned that the European Central Bank's asset purchase programme will end in March next year or will be withdrawn. In this asset purchase programme there are three-quarters of purchases of government bonds. What does this mean for these large debtor countries? For example, the Italian Government has officially said that they will not be able to comply with the debt criterion and the deficit criterion in the next ten years and in the longer term. So what's gonna happen? This withdrawal of the asset purchase programme is pushing the interest on government bonds up. Somewhere these topics are being discussed, but we will have such general answers. Has this matter been discussed at the level of the chairmen of the Committee on European Union Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U58	If that was the question, then the answer is very simple: not discussed. But the theme of the course is, well, it was a very big decision. During the financial crisis in 2014, this asset purchase programme was carried out, asset purchase programs. Today there are five programmes, the biggest of which really is the purchase of public assets, which are government bonds. There's three trillion left today. I specifically looked up the central bank's website: 3 trillion. And basically, it's all money that should be paid back at one point. But basically, the residue of the assets is that I think all financial people will understand that he can also stand for a very long time. It doesn't change if it's 3 trillion in place. But when he's finished, that 3 trillion is the extra cash put into circulation. What I see is this problem. The increase in the money, why did he start? Because inflation disappeared and was zero inflation and even negative. This also caused a very serious panic in the European Commission. Zero inflation actually means that all investments stopped. And then they were looking for this road, how to still increase this inflation a little bit, and it was decided that the money should be increased in circulation. And that's where the asset purchase program, which the central bank did 60 billion a month, came from. And today, yes, I looked at this home page, the residue is 3 trillion. In short, it is money in circulation and, as I said before, the figures show that the money in circulation still slightly decreases compared to multiplying inflation and growth by [impact]. I do not see directly that this is a loan that will bankrupt the lender or the borrower. Rather, it is the kind of factor that all financial people look at with concern that there is one factor that keeps up certain debt risks at all times. But basically, I don't see any immediate panic either. Mario Draghi, the Prime Minister of Italy today, launched this programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U59	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You've had a long experience in leadership, and you've run a variety of organizations. My question also concerns governance and the European Union in its structure. We know that the fish is starting to rot in the head. We have the European Commission led by the President, the Council of Europe, with representatives of the Member States, ministers, then the European Parliament is directly elected with ambassadors, then there is the Council with its President. What is your opinion and assessment of whether such a governance model and structure can be competitive in the long term, given the global competition between countries? And we also have experience, we know that, for example, Tito inherited the model of collective governance for Yugoslavia and what has happened since Yugoslavia. So I'd like your assessment, including your perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U61	Yeah, it's an incredibly complicated model, but I'd paraphrase Churchill here, who said no one's come up with anything better. It should be taken into account that it is an independent, voluntary organisation of 27 independent Member States. It's not the Soviet Union, is it? There's no way we could talk about volunteering. We've all stepped into it, and we want our voice heard. Now we have this dilemma, right, how we decide or how the European Union should make a decision, so that it also takes into account, say, the opinion of Estonia, but also the opinion of Germany, which is the largest country. It is, right, this famous voting formula, which it was then, [by must] be 55% [of all], of the larger and smaller countries, and [more], I cannot remember the exact number at the moment. But basically, of course, it's all very complicated. However, there are many examples where the European Union has decided quickly in some crisis situations. For example, the same financial crisis in 2008 when the decision was made to rescue and help banks. Banks began to collapse like dominoes, and then there was one question: can banks be granted state aid or not? In fact, the logic that applied should not have been given and the banks should have gone peacefully bankrupt. It was decided differently. And that decision was made in a flash. And even the same thing the Prime Minister mentioned here today and I mentioned: the same digital certificate. Yes, he can! If you want to, you can decide very quickly, but it must be a common will. The dilemma that is being debated, and what you know very well, is that, at the conference on the future of Europe, there is one question as to whether or not the treaties are being attacked. And our position should be that the treaties are not being attacked. Because what does the Treaty mean, and what is the idea that they want to change? The intention is to make such changes as will reduce the decision-making power of the Member States and increase the decision-making power of the European Parliament. To this, I think a country like Estonia should be opposed in any case. The current Treaty has been in force since 2009. And it is not generally said that the Treaty should be changed, which is already a completely separate phenomenon of itself, because the Treaty was amended very often in the past. I don't know what to say for years now, but anyway, it's 1992, 1997. In this sense, it works as it is now, and somehow everyone thinks it's more or less balanced. But yes, if a mandate is given very quickly, quick decisions will also be made. However, the dilemma is how you ensure that both Germany and Estonia, but not just Estonia, even smaller countries, are available in Malta, Cyprus and Luxembourg, so that their voices sound adequate. Their voice is not equal under any circumstances, but to make it sound adequate. This adequately means that each country has one vote in the Council, right, it is the Prime Minister or in some countries it is the President. In the Commission, each country has one vote. This is a big issue, and I have always believed that it should remain so, although the Treaty of Nice actually says that this number of Commissions must be reduced. Again, I have to apologize for probably taking too long. But questions contain issues that are not simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U62	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U63	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, These answers to the questions demonstrate that ELAK has a very good chairman, who is fully familiar with the functioning of the European Union and is also prepared to take on philosophical issues. That is why I am asking, borne in mind by yesterday's debate on the Court's audit. Even if we remain within the framework of the Treaties, how can we find this balance between standardisation, harmonisation, regulation and free functioning? This has actually been very acute in the ELAK meetings. How much should a Member State have [the right] to decide freely and whether this limit goes between areas or should run within a sector, we take tax policy or traffic management? And a long answer is welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U64	Thank you. However, tax policy is a consensual decision of the Member States; it cannot be put in this pot. But it's a constant fight, and it's between sectors and countries. I will give an example since the Commissioner for Research and Development was Slovenian Janez Potočnik. He suggested that universities should receive European grants and other grants, such as the lump sum, or lump sum, and not ask for all the forms that are currently in force. Whoever resisted failed. Universities were opposed to the argument that universities were not equal. I cannot give the same amount to Oxford and the University of Warsaw.. I remember these two things. It's a constant fight. I'd say that... I'm gonna say a long answer again. For 3.5 years, I led a group of experts working on simplifying the rules of the Structural Funds. And what did we discover? In fact, I finally insisted that the law on the basis of which these funds are spent was 100 pages thin, but the Commission presented it to the Council twice as small. These rules were doubled by the Member States of the Council. Okay, so that's it, the law was passed. But there is one other thing, the so-called guidelines in English, which we would interpret in Estonian as guidelines, and there were 6,000 pages of them. And it was produced, like those who were recipients, asking the Commission to clarify a point. And the Commission gave a clarification, which was never perfect, so a new question came up. Our Commission's ultimate objective was that these guidelines should be banned. But in the end, in my opinion, it went into this new regulation that such guidance can only be given when strictly necessary, but it was not entirely forbidden. It's a description of how these things work there. In fact, everyone agrees that the rules should be simple, everyone agrees, but like it goes on paper, there's a whole other picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U65	Good chairman of the committee! My colleagues have run out of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U66	I'm sorry! I spent too much time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U67	There has never been too much time spent on important issues. There is now an opportunity for the representatives of the political groups to take the floor. The negotiations will begin with Mikhail Lotman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U68	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! I'll start with what I didn't have to start with, because that's self-evident, in my opinion. But still. I and the Isamaa Group are based on the fact that the European Union is a successful and useful project and Estonia's participation in the European Union is also justified and useful. This does not mean that everything is okay there in the European Union and that there are no problems with our involvement. Before I go to criticism, I would like to highlight a few things that maybe some of our ambassadors have forgotten. The European Union is not a disincentive to nationalities. On the contrary, thanks to the European Union, many small nations have been able to develop their culture as if they could not have done it on their own. Without the European Union, we would only watch Hollywood movies because they are so much more economically successful. But it is the films of the small peoples that have recently appeared in the languages of the very small peoples of Europe that have been successful in the field of culture. The population and size of the economy are not automatically linked to cultural goods. Well, that was a positive side. And also the history of vaccination without the European Union, we would be much worse off than we are now. But now I'd like to go to the other side. Our participation in the European Union is right; we are quite successful in transposing these directives at different speeds. But here's something we'll forget. And this is perhaps what currently connects our foreign policy with the EKRE's perception that the European Union is some kind of machine that produces directives, and we here take them over and we do them. We are also the European Union, and the European Union should be much more our face than it is now. When this government was formed, I had a concern that our new foreign minister belongs to a party with a friendship agreement with Jedinaya Rossija. And I have to say that these fears, fortunately, did not find any support, but something else came up. When I mentioned this to the Prime Minister's candidate, you said that my concern was completely redundant, that you were going to lead foreign policy yourself, and now we are going to have a better, more effective, more dynamic foreign policy. However, this is not the case for the European Union, and this is particularly evident during the last crisis. I don't want to say any bad words about the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He is a good official, conscientious, etc., but all he does is what we hear in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: he listens, introduces Estonia's position, and everything. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U69	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U70	But we always have a question there in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but that and that is whether a decision has been made in this direction. No, there has been no decision in this particular direction. We ask: did you, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, make such a proposal? Answer: No, I, as Foreign Minister, did not make this specific proposal. And that is, I would say, a drastic contrast with what was before Estonia was the first speaker on very many issues, such as the Belarusian crisis, the Ukrainian crisis, etc. But now we're good, we're obedient, we're listening to other people's decisions, and so on. I don't want to overdramaticize. What is happening now is not catastrophic at all; it is not even very bad in itself, but it is not good either. The Estonian state, the Estonian government, the Estonian Foreign Affairs Committee have a pretty good expertise on issues relating to the crises related to Belarus, Ukraine, Russia. And I asked you then that the coalition has a great candidate for Foreign Affairs, Marko Mihkelson. Couldn't there be a way to replay? I can't. But you're the one who's driving! Well, I don't want to be malicious, you've had a lot of malicious criticism lately without me, and I don't want to join my vote. But when you said you were running foreign policy, please lead it! For example, you can come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is quite possible. I would like Estonia to be much more proactive in the European Union than it is now. In order for the European Union to take more account of Estonia's positions, which we will also present. But, finally, I want to say about what Mr Seeder asked about: the governance model in the European Union. Yes, it is very complicated, but some things are very simple, such as continuous resettlement, [prefering] between Strasbourg and Brussels. A huge waste of resources, and this is nothing to do with the interests of the Member States. Thank you. And I wish for strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U71	On behalf of the Central Party Group, Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U72	I'd like three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U73	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U74	Good fellows! The European Union's predecessor, the European Coal and Steel Community, was established to ensure peace. The last three German-French wars had brought the continent to the brink of destruction. And in those years after the war, it was well known that prosperity and prosperity were a prerequisite for peace. And prosperity and well-being can only be guaranteed by people having a well-paid job, having free access to health care and education. The Treaties of Rome, which form the basis of the European Community, also speak of increasing stability and speeding up the standard of living. Today, at the end of 2021, in the second year of the corona epidemic, we see unrest beyond and within the borders of the European Union, the instability of which the neoliberal consensus has become our heritage in the last 30 years is increasing. The three biggest crises we are currently facing point to shortcomings in the original principles mentioned just now. When it was decided in the eighties of the last century that the war on infectious diseases was over, it was forgotten who won the war. All European countries introduced a work model in the automotive industry with a precise timing. The number of beds was reduced, the proportion of private medicine increased. Result: In 2020, a number of European countries basically grounded their population, as the hospital system did not withstand the burden. Even now, after a strong vaccination campaign, European countries are concerned about the overload of intensive care departments. We do not have enough doctors and nurses, in many countries there is also a shortage of epidemiologists, a lack of virologists, a lack of research funding, so that we can better understand the virus and react quickly, effectively and crediblely to citizens. Estonia is no exception. This situation needs to be changed. States must be free to invest in expanding their healthcare systems, in particular in training people, and these costs must be excluded from the debt and deficit criteria. There is no use in the balance of the budget and the small sovereign debt if every winter the economy simply has to be closed down. It is quite clear how choices should be made when putting life, health and freedom on the other side and hypothetical inflation on the other side. Now, people's well-being has also remained in the background on the border between Belarus and Poland. Immigrants are called hybrid weapons, the migration crisis has become an unnoticed security crisis in the public debate, another penalty is planned, barbed wire is rolled loose, water cannons are rolled in, firearms are raised, and some die in the cold in the forest at the same time. Just as for years people have died in the waves of the Mediterranean. Securing the migration crisis will not help us solve it. The migratory flows that are now heading for the eastern borders of the European Union are, in fact, the same migratory flows that are heading for the southern borders. And their root cause is not the decisions of the Turkish or Belarusian or Libyan authorities. Their root cause is here in Europe. As long as the signal comes from the European labour market 'we need cheap labour', as long as everyone is aware that anyone who has the opportunity to place his foot on the European surface will most likely remain here too, we will always see migratory flows and we will always see European workers who, at the same time, are concerned about the constant deterioration of their wages and working conditions. It is not the free movement of people, it is the free movement of wages, and so it must be resolved. Where there is demand, there is supply, there are intermediaries, there are smugglers, non-profit organisations in some countries. And as long as we continue with this European policy that has been so far, perhaps we will make border guards from the countries with which we share a common border, we will pay them off, while at the same time we will close our eyes to how smugglers behave, how they work with some non-profit organisations, then we will create a situation, we will create this demand ourselves. But the European Union is paying us for immigrants, and I want some for myself, so I can make some kind of deal with the European Union! It's not going anywhere. We don't need more barbed wire, more border guards, more camps. The answer to this question is in the labour market both in Europe and in the countries of origin. First of all, we have to admit ourselves that our economy here does not need immigrants. We do not have full employment, there is no full employment in any country, and in many countries, for example, youth unemployment is around 30%. The question is not that the local people do not want to do any work. They don't want certain pay, they don't want certain working conditions. We have no shortage of labour, we have a shortage of wages. And, of course, in the case of the countries of origin, all aid programmes, which must be aimed primarily at building a real economy, creating jobs in the countries of origin, necessary investment, knowledge transfer, must be reviewed. And you know, if there is one, the rights will come on their own. Iran also does not build a nuclear power without female engineers. Let us stop luring people into the Mediterranean and into the cold forests of Eastern Europe! We do a different labour market policy, we create sector agreements with the force of law that guarantee equal rights for all workers! We create a situation for our businesses to compete for the best product or service, not for the most efficient exploitation of the worker. In short, driving the economy requires countries to take the key issue of zeroing unemployment, not zeroing inflation. And last, but no less important: the grass. Above all, it is important to state what we are defending, what we want to achieve. The turn of the green is not to preserve our planet. The planet will be fine. He has managed to cope with all kinds of climates, has managed to cope with a hotter and colder climate, with people and without them. The turn of the green is not even really to preserve humanity, because I think that humanity can also cope in a smaller number, probably worse, but humanity will always adapt to the drastically changing circumstances. What we have to maintain today and what we have to work for and what these policies are about is our industrial economic system, which allows prosperity for everyone. Universal prosperity is what we stand for and why we are doing these reforms. And when we do, every single reform must also be based on the principle of well-being. We can't go and tell people to start living worse now, pay bigger electricity bills, give up your job prematurely, then maybe someday there will be redemption. We must not go [invitation] to abandon industry at all. Our energy policy, our investments, must be such that we invest in an industry that pollutes as little as possible. In short, the result of the green turn and all the stops between the green turn must not be abandoned apartment buildings, ghost castles in empty cities, unemployed miners in Ida-Virumaa, but must be Ida-Virumaa, which is prosperous, with numerous high-wage industrial jobs in Ida-Virumaa, which is the engine of the Estonian industry. Good Riigikogu! If Europe is to be a shining city on a mountain in the future, a model for everyone, then we must put the well-being of the people at the heart of our individual policies. Let Europe have one flag letter in the next decade, the same old "Peace! Bread! Earth!"! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U75	On behalf of the Socialists, Riina Sikkut, please! Riina and I have developed a little communication disturbance. Until we find Riina again on the web sites, please, on behalf of the EKRE Group of Peeter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U76	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Once upon a time, there was a man like Mao Zedong, a great leader. He wanted to make his country more competitive, and he came out with this big jump. Remember, for the sake of a noble idea, the entire nation began to destroy the sparrows so that the sparrows would not eat the blades too much. The sparrows finally fell dead, they didn't fly very long, but afterwards the caterpillars came, and the sparrows also eat the grains, and there was a greater accident. So it didn't work out much from the big jump. And if I now listen to this green turn, I would not like to compare, but perhaps I should compare with the great green jump of the leader von der Leyen of the European Commission. There are certain parallels. The noble idea of making the European Union more competitive, not now the People's Republic of China. Really, America, the other side of China. How to live better, how to get along more successfully? So that the sheaves change the technology and all that in itself the right thing. But if we do so in a hurry, with slogans, and if the foundations are not thoroughly analysed, then it could end in the same way as the big leap of the great chairman Mao Zedong in the People's Republic of China many years ago. It has been said that heroes should go in parallel so that the economy continues to evolve so that the economy is not strangled, people's lives are not made worse. Now, however, the first fruits are actually visible. Remember what von der Leyen said when he came to power in the European Commission. One of the main ideas was the carbon and greenhouse gas trading scheme, with a ton of EUR 52 in 2030. The ten-year plan was completed in six months. Today, a ton costs €67. This means that the trading system on which this whole movement was built must be reviewed. And that's what they're doing, as far as I know, but that's what started moving on. Yes, we do indeed have the Prime Minister one of our biggest wind lobbies. There's a lot of wind farms on Echo on CVs for a very long time. Yes, indeed, at sea the giant windmills are okay, interfering with someone's selfs at sunset, nor is it beautiful. And as Maris Lauri said, rest your feet on the farm fees. This means that it will take even more time before these windmills begin to rise at some point. However, I maintain that there is a spit well before a new well, the well of the so-called sea wind farm, has been built. So there's too much rush. Slogans again, too much rush! Now, if you look at the personalities, I've already talked a little bit about the chairman of the committee, von der Leyen. But he's got a character like Mr. Timmermans, soots. And I remember very well what Mr. Timmermans is running this heirloom has been talking about nation states and patriotism. He says, for example, that the great difference between a patriot and a nationalist is that a patriot loves his country passionately, is proud of his country and proud of his history, and is also interested in other countries. But a nationalist needs hatred and hatred. I mean, I don't know who I am. I like my people, my history, but I like them, and I watch other nations every day, too, and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U77	Peter, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U78	Yeah, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U79	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U80	If the kind of person who says that nation states are Satan, now we're in charge of this great greening, I'll have my doubts. However, unfortunately, in this short period of time, this issue cannot be further analysed. Yes, Siim Kallas knows exactly how this great monster operates: huge bureaucracy, voting formulas. Yeah, it's not the Soviet Union, but, Siim, you kind of slipped when you wanted to say "the republics of the Union." Well, we are the republics. But it's not the biggest... I wanted to read you a few lines about the writing of Archbishop Viilma. This is not about economic development, but about the European cultural space. He says: "The survival of our own culture, Estonian language, nation state is no longer a value in itself [in the European Union, meaning. (P.E.) which would be useful to speak of as the values of political parties. When you speak about a nation state or Estonian, you will receive a sign from a supporter of a particular party. The nation state is no longer worth itself. " And the archbishop is here talking about these new values, new normality, which also characterize the European Union. I don't have time to talk about them in detail either, even if it's for a long time. Everything is like changing, everything is relative: gender is relative, views are relative, competitiveness is fundamental and not a Christian culture in Europe. Islamic culture is equally [important]. I am absolutely not opposed to Islamic culture, everyone has a place in this world, but these are issues that have not been or have been given very little attention. Siim Kallas rightly said that these stories are beginning and should begin every day, and not only in this Parliament: what does it really mean, what does it mean to the Estonian state, to the Estonian people, to the individual wallet of everyone, to the thinking world of every person, to a particular Estonian, and to whether he dares to say it and whether he wants to live in a country where a major green jump is a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U81	Thank you very much. Let's try to get in touch now. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U82	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, listeners! There's an echo, isn't there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U83	No, we hear nicely. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U84	Very nicely, the Prime Minister, actually referring to the creation of the European Union, its long history, said how Europe has been a peace project. In today's security situation, it may speak more than it would in the spring speech. But besides 'peace', the key words that the Prime Minister pointed out are 'cooperation', 'trust', and if I got it right now, 'enhanced dependence', which may sound strange in the first swing, but in fact, this cooperation sits very well together. The question is whether we need to be the same or whether we trust, cooperate and win by using each one's strength. ELAK, the Committee on European Union Affairs, has indeed been focusing on the debate on the green turn of the autumn session. What is this currently agreed framework for "Objective 55"? How does Estonia fit in or fit in this frame? I am talking about three challenges for Estonia regarding the green turn and these challenges are not in energy or transport. First of all, it is a challenge to realise that being out for the interests of Estonia does not mean that we should somehow rule out cooperation or even less, hold selfish positions. In the debates on the green turn in Estonia, also in the Riigikogu, criticism remains that we cannot run in front of the train alone and that other countries are either not doing anything or they are not doing so much. And there's an attitude that let the trees plant those who don't have the woods, and that you force us to keep this forest. It is not understood that agreements at European level can be such that we bind carbon, we have forest, we have value, and a German tourist can both walk here and actually benefit from the fact that we bind carbon. At the same time, countries are very different in their ability to contribute to science. For example, Germany's amounts of hydrogen innovation are in no way comparable to our opportunities. So in Europe, we do not have to be the same, we do not have to have equally hogs and wooded areas and hydrogen innovation laboratories. That is the value of Europe, that we have common goals and that everyone can do what he is good at. All in all, we win. All of Europe and Germany will benefit from research from our forests as well as from Europe as a whole. This is the first challenge: to create an understanding that this is also the European situation in terms of achieving the green turning goals. Secondly, we have the challenge of caring. (Says something to the screaming child: "Hey, come here. ") In the meantime, the notion that everyone has to cope on their own, which is very strongly rooted in Estonia... (A baby bales something, says to the child: "Yes, I will open it for you. ") We tend to forget that cohesion is not just between Member States. That is what I said in the spring, rather in the context of the social pillar, but in fact this is exactly the same for the green turn. Solidarity does not mean that Swedish and Dutch taxpayers invest in Estonian light traffic routes or nursing homes or in implementing the labour capacity reform. Cohesion must also be national. The challenge of Ida-Viru County in the green turn is perhaps greater than in Järvamaa or Harjumaa. So we need this solidarity in the regions. Similarly, [it is necessary] to understand that a high-wage earner must show solidarity with a low-wager. So this solidarity, which we are demonstrating between countries, must inevitably come from solidarity within the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U85	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U86	So the social cost of these ambitious, European, objectives cannot in any way be an increase in inequality. In the case of a green turnaround, the European Commission has also made it very clear that the transition must be fair and allow people to continue to cope and not to amplify inequalities. It's something you can't possibly deviate from. And third...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U87	Riina, do you need more time? Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U88	Thank you. Thirdly, we have the challenge of believing in ourselves. A green turn is not an abstract climate neutrality, a reduction in invisible carbon emissions. This is our cleaner environment. This is the preservation of our biodiversity and, in fact, the longer term use of resources. It is in no way strange or imposed or unnecessary, on the contrary, it is also essential for Estonia. At the same time, Estonia will win a great deal, both in its security policy and in its economic policy, if we can set an example in the world, to demonstrate that change is possible. This is not a dream, and it is a challenge for us to believe that we are the ones who can lead by example, to bring others along and to demonstrate the possibility of change. When, in the spring debate on European Union policy, we were able to say that the health crisis is testing people and institutions and that we must make an effort to be stronger when we face the next crisis. Now the European Union has actually been accompanied by a hybrid attack test by Belarus. On the one hand, it is a completely different type of challenge than the health crisis. At the same time, we are also thinking about an issue as important as in the case of Estonia, there has been the Eastern Partnership and maintaining the European hope for those countries that would really be able to move towards the rule of law, to reduce corruption, but also to increase exports and movement of people. We have seen that almost half of the independence period was the hope that bore us. It has brought us where we are, and we are doing very well. We [have to feel] responsible to be able to maintain this hope after the corona crisis, even after resolving this security crisis, and to stand by the fact that the European Union is not really ready. The efforts made by the countries of Northern Macedonia, Albania and the Eastern Partnership have so far been worthy of such an approach and must continue in the same direction in the future. So, power! The Committee on European Union Affairs is undoubtedly ready to continue to contribute to discussing all the challenges facing the European Union and to shaping decisions that are important for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U89	Thank you, excellent concentration! And finally, the Prime Minister has also asked for a word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U90	Dear Riigikogu, thank you all for this debate. A few things I'd like to take care of. Firstly, Estonia's representation in the European Union, but also outside. As I said in my speech, the silencer will not be noticed, the screamer will not be heard. Therefore, the fact that we have taken the lead on many issues is important precisely because we are being listened to because we are reasonable, balanced and argumentated. If you do foreign policy or European Union policy in the media, but you remain silent during the substantive debate, it will not really do much good to Estonia. So it's important to focus on content. The second thing I wanted to say is on migratory flows. Yes, I believe that migration flows must be dealt with in their countries of origin. But in fact, it is also a broader issue of openness and protectionism. I would rather say that if the European Union behaves very protectionistly towards third countries, so that it does not allow them to develop their economies properly, to provide jobs there, there will indeed be pressure on the European Union. It is a border between openness and closure, in the sense that why we are doting tomatoes that are produced in the European Union if we could buy them from African countries, for example, where local people would get jobs and bread. This is a big point of dispute, and I have always believed that it should still help the market to take care of it, so we do not actually create such self-created barriers. Now for the green turn. I recommend that the representative of the EKRE visit here at the foot of Toompea Leimus, where there is currently an exhibition of tiger jumping. If you look at the way we behaved during the tiger jump, then these things did not happen overnight, but Estonia saw the opportunity there and grabbed it. The market economy is the key to the green turn precisely to see that things are moving that way, and it is not an obsession of the European Union, but it is happening worldwide. If you look at the developments that are around the world, the debates that were also held at the UN climate conference, that is where the world is going. If the representative of EKRE actually followed the development of Estonian GDP and Estonian entrepreneurship as closely as he reads the books of Mao Zedong, he would realise that in fact the involvement with the digital revolution has brought us economic success, and the involvement with the green turn, the leadership in certain places where we could do so, can guarantee us the same economic success. And precisely because we are acting on the logic of the market economy. Now, another topic I would like to mention. Nobody attacks nation states. There must be separate nationalism and nationalism. In the case of nationalism, it is considered that it is better than other nations and therefore it is considered that one nation has rights or privileges that others should not have. But nationalism, the fact that you are proud of the national culture of your country and stand for it is not attacked by anyone. On the contrary, as Mr Lotman said in his speech, small countries and cultures in a small country in Europe can actually be better preserved than in a large globalised world. So, in any case, Europe would rather support the development of small countries and small nations and cultures, and that should be the case. Thank you all for the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U91	Thank you very much. That concludes the negotiations and the first item on today's agenda is exhausted. We can move on to the agenda, but before that we should extend today's session, because the proposal of the Centre Party Group to extend the session until the agenda items are exhausted has come to the Board of the Riigikogu, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Before we vote, we'll make a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Party of the Riigikogu has proposed to extend today's session until 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U92	The proposal was supported by 70 ambassadors, no one opposed, with 3 abstentions. The proposal has been accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U93	We can move on to the agenda. Next is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision by the Isamaa Group to propose to the Government of the Republic to prevent irregular migration to a temporary control line for the rapid construction of a physical barrier in South-East Estonia. It requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur is Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Isamaa Group has submitted to the proceedings a draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to prevent irregular migration to a temporary check line for the rapid construction of a physical barrier in South-East Estonia." When we talk about the border in this debate, it is 'language comfort', but we still have a temporary baseline in mind. But the need to build this permanent barrier, the permanent barrier, has come from life itself, has come from the current security situation in the Baltic region and, consequently, the need to make such a proposal today, because we have to admit that we have not done too well to build this permanent barrier. I would remind you that we started talking about this need already in 2014, after the border incident, where Eston Kohver was kidnapped by Russia. Today we have reached 2021, so seven years have passed. Seven years have passed, and we are coming to the point that the first part of the permanent border will soon be completed, the first procurement, or just 23 kilometers. Here we can ask whether the capacity of the Estonian state is indeed 23 kilometres in seven years to build a garden. Yeah, maybe I'm simplifying a little bit, and this isn't just a garden, it's a little bit more complicated, but it's not some kind of a specially complex facility or a building. We see that Belarus, of course, has now created a situation such that there is a real hybrid war on the borders of Poland, Lithuania and Latvia, where people are used as weapons, with support and support from Russia. This may not be limited to these countries alone. If we recall the recent history of Russia's borders, both in Northern Finland and Norway, where illegal border crossings of people were organised, but then already on the border between Norway and Russia, then state that there is no similar threat from Russia's borders to Belarus and will not be in the future, we certainly cannot today. Estonia has 136 kilometres of border with Russia on land. The first phase of this building up as a permanent barrier will take over 23 kilometers. The next procurement, which has been carried out, but which is far from being realized, is 40 kilometres away and nothing more. It should only be completed by 2026 according to current plans. It's obviously too long. The draft decision submitted by the Isamaa Group provides for its faster development. In my opinion, this is not the place where we should talk about the opposition and coalition separately, but where there would be consensus, as we tend to talk about defence issues, security issues, where we are dealing with a common thing, where the various parties do not have very great differences. And I have even more faith in this in the strong statements by the Minister of the Interior that he has made that they have thought about how to build the border faster, how to bring procurement forward. He hopes that it will be possible to do so in the current knowledge in a good case already in 2025. But that's not enough either. We are now living in 2021, and if we look at the processes that have taken place on the borders of Belarus, there, if not for hours, the situation will change in days. And we're talking about years here to build a fence! It's obviously too long. We do not have that much time to wait; the security policy situation does not allow this. There are other aspects. We need to show solidarity at the moment not only in words to resolve the crisis with other countries of the European Union and in the Baltic region, not only in political statements and not only in providing real aid. For this, the current Government of the Republic must certainly be acknowledged that we have given our teams as assistance, as well as physical assistance, to the border between Lithuania and Poland. But we must also show solidarity in defending our own borders, because it is a common border and the strength of the chain depends on a weaker link, and the Estonian border cannot remain that vulnerable weaker link. This solidarity must also be expressed in building our own borders. Again, I recall the recent speeches, where the Prime Minister announced only two months, even less than two months ago, that there is no real threat to Estonia's borders and there is no need to build temporary border barriers. But how quickly the situation has changed and how quickly the position of the government and the Prime Minister has also changed. This is necessary and it is also necessary to build a permanent border faster. The financial resources for this can be found. They are not insurmountable in today's situation, where the growth forecast is significantly better than it was here a year, a year and a half, two years ago, and where the real tax receipts and the public budget volume are also significantly higher than was previously forecast in the country's budgetary strategy for four years. In addition, the European Union is also ready to lend a hand and we have already accounted for 23 million, but there may be additional financial assistance to build our external borders. So the building of the Estonian border barrier will certainly not be behind the funds. If this remains, it will be behind the organisational questions, behind the fact that this is not really a priority, and it would be very unfortunate. So I do hope that today we can jointly support this proposal, which the government has already said in advance, that it is ready for it. It would be very strange here today to vote against this proposal with the message that yes, we are ready, able and want to build the border faster, but we do not support Parliament's will and the proposal to build the border faster. This would be an extremely strange message and a false message to Estonian society and our allies today. This message from the Chamber today would be very wrong that, no, we do not support the proposal for the government to build a permanent border barrier on the eastern border faster, even though we are ready for it and that is the government's priority. This would be extremely strange, and I would certainly not understand such a message and security in Estonian society. I therefore very much hope that coalition parties will come behind this initiative of the Fatherland, which is an important security policy initiative, and which is a helping hand on the opposition side, and will relate to government policy, just as I have understood the previous statements made by members of the government, both in the Riigikogu and in the wider media. Hanno Pevkur is sitting in this hall. Initially, the plan was to build the border for the 100th birthday of the Republic of Estonia. Unfortunately, this failed, and the construction of the border did not begin until a few years later when this initial goal was set. All the more reason today to vote in favour of such a proposal is that we will then build it by, for example, 2023. This is, in my opinion, completely realistic if we are not able to do it next year. I do not think that we are not able to do this because it is not only physically possible to construct it, but, as we know, we must carry out public procurement and this bureaucratic party will take its time, but in a few years' perspective, it is certainly possible to build up this border if it is the real priority of the government, involving all the possible forces there. So please support the initiative of the Isamaa Group and be constructive in dealing with this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U95	Thank you very much. Questions can also be asked to the rapporteur. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Indeed, the government has said that building the border is their priority, and it is immediately followed by bringing it one year ahead, from 2026 to 2025. Well, frankly, it doesn't, like, highlight that priority very much. This is an extremely small ambition. What do you think this is really gonna do? In principle, even now, RMK could have the whole border strip removed and prepared, but it is not ready for that either. What is behind this practical implementation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U97	Yes, the Minister of the Interior has repeatedly argued that the readiness to build this border is faster by 2025. It coincides, at least in its own direction, with the draft decision currently under discussion, but it is certainly not enough. This question should rather be put to the members of the government, they would be able to explain why they are not prepared to build it faster. My opinion is that this can be done quite several years faster, and the only reason I can come up with is that it is not really such an important priority. I do not suspect at all the government that it is somehow malicious, that we do not basically build the Estonian border; we do not, in principle, want greater security, but I think that this is a wrong assessment of the situation. This threat assessment and the perception of this threat and of the security policy situation are erroneous and false. In the past, I also referred to the Prime Minister's answers just two months ago when he said that there was no danger and there was no need for any kind of temporary border barriers. So this is where I read very clearly that this threat assessment is not quite adequate and that, I think, is the main reason. But the issue of security and security is very serious. After all, we cannot develop other areas in Estonia and talk about developing culture, promoting the economy or anything else if we do not guarantee the security of our country. So that's my interpretation, trying to figure out what might be in the heads of members of the government if they don't really want to build it up faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U98	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U99	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! If there is no border, then there is no country, that is clear. And if the border cannot be stable, it is not possible to do exactly what you said within the country to do, from culture to other areas. Having taken care of it myself once. Some ministers in their time claimed that the border guard was overdeveloped, and that is why they foresaw that they would not build a border or anything else. Today I am very pleased to see that this matter is being dealt with and that what has been raised by you is a serious issue, and I certainly support it. But the question is, how do you even look at the fact that one is a physical limit to the fence and its possible crossing, but in fact, it is the person who protects the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U100	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U101	He's on the border guard side. Voluntary systems still need to create a structure that actually protects this border with people. How do you look at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U102	Thank you. Of course, this boundary mathematics is wider than just building a temporary barrier or a permanent barrier. A distinction should also be made here between border surveillance, which has been discussed quite a lot and where perhaps we want to be more successful, especially if we are able to implement our plans and implement modern drones for border surveillance, but the drone itself, in the form that we have planned and planned now, is not directly involved in defending the border. In addition to border surveillance, the border needs to be protected. This, of course, requires not only a physical barrier but also a functioning organisation, a manned team, and everything else, which has been said very much. But our bill doesn't deal with these issues right now. I hope that the government will also deal with these organisational issues, in many areas. One thing is operationally acute in the context of the problem and the other in the long term, in view of how this border surveillance would be sustainable at all and better organised in this large joint office, where we no longer have independent border guards. How would these chains of command work and so on. This is another issue, and it is much wider, to which we can and maybe we must come back again in the future, but once again, in the context of this draft, we will not address these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U103	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U104	Good manager! Good waitress! We know that when Estonia joined the European Union and NATO, one of the promises was to protect the external borders of the European Union and NATO. In the current situation, there is also a migration crisis, i.e. the possibility of illegal immigrants moving to Estonia via Pihkva. What could happen if we were to hang around here and actually don't start building a state border as soon as possible? Do we know today that there is a risk that there will be the same situation at Pihkva Airport that is on the border with Belarus and Poland today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U105	Thank you for your question. Theoretically, indeed, we may have the same situation that exists today on the borders of Belarus-Poland, Belarus-Lithuania, Belarus-Latvia. In order to prevent this threat, we are talking both about building a permanent border barrier and about installing a temporary barrier now. It is very right that we are putting this temporary barrier in place and, in this respect, certainly acknowledgment to the government and the relevant authorities that are dealing with it. But, as I said, in our threat assessments, we need to be as foresighted as possible and the reasons for such naive illusions that we will not be in danger from the Russian border in the near future or even in the distant future, it is certainly not reasonable to rely on it. Therefore, it is essential to put in place a temporary border barrier and to speed up the establishment of a permanent border.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U106	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U107	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You've used the term "guarding the border" quite a few times. My question is, therefore, how many border protection facilities or constructions do you think there are? In today's manoeuvring war, the border as such is not protected in a ditch and bunker, and speaking of border facilities, I am somehow reminded of the great and powerful Magino line of the French, which was simply passed by in World War II.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U108	Thank you. Yes, if we are looking at such fatal developments that the Russian side comes with tanks or not even with tanks, but with planes, then there really is no point at the border. But practical life shows and real life shows around us and also now in the Baltic region that very different variants are used acutely. This so-called hybrid war, where people, living people, are used as weapons to promote illegal border crossings, where different people are manipulated, where border barriers, both temporary and permanent, are completely adequate and fulfil their function. Otherwise, they would not be built and applied in other countries, and we will see that they have certainly justified themselves in Poland and have been a great help in defending the border. It is precisely a great help in defending the border. It's a practical real experience. One thing is real life, the other is a theoretical war situation. So the Estonian state is likely to be able to guarantee its security in the framework of NATO, even in the case of major military operations, by working successfully with its allies. But now we are talking about this acute real situation that has arisen in the Baltic region, and in this case, I think, this border facility is quite helpful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U109	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U110	Thank you, good vice chairman. Do I have one or two questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U111	One question for both waitresses.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U112	Got it. Let's pull fast. The third question then, let's start from behind, is that which, in your opinion, is a sharper pencil and better orientation, either the Minister of the Interior, who, a week ago, when he was in the Commission, said that everything was very hard-core and nothing was [wrong], or our Minister of Defence, who already announced that we were going to build these [blocks]. And my second question, because the first question, which was, was that several questions I have, is that you do not see such a so-called conspiracy here, because we know that some bears have arrived from Russia, also from Latvia, Estonia is such a place for a bear assembly, where there are already 1,200, so that these borders are jealously kept open, so that bears can come to Estonia, who simply do not have the dignity of living somewhere in the Empire of Evil.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U113	Thank you. Comparing the activities or attitudes or capabilities of the Minister of Defence and Home Affairs just because I have not had a very thorough discussion with both ministers, I think that I am not quite the right person today to make this assessment. I have had more contact with the Minister of the Interior, and I was able to communicate with the Minister of the Interior and ask and answer in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I've had less contact with the Secretary of Defense right now. But I very much hope that there will be good cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Department of Defense. After all, today we see that it was imperative not only to include the Ministry of the Interior but also the Ministry of Defence. It has certainly been done right that both ministries have taken this seriously, and I hope that both ministers will be ready for cooperation. As far as the movement of bears is concerned now, without irony, it can be said that, in a sense, this construction of borders is, of course, also a matter of environmental science. Sure. However, as we have understood, it has been thought through both the permanent border and the temporary border, so that it does not have any such consequences, which would be so-called fatal to the movement of animals, and it is also thought about how the movement of animals could take place in these facilities. So I believe that these bears will also be able to manage and reasonably interact with each other in Latvia, Russia and Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U114	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U115	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In 2018, it turned out that the construction of the border would be considerably more expensive than two-and-a-half times. Now, in the meantime, the issue has been discussed in the government and it has come to the conclusion that basically the lights and whistles must be removed and the border made even more compact and cheaper. Has this spot price theme been going through how much this border could still cost in real life today? Has this price become more expensive again? Do you have an overview of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U116	Thank you. Well, I can operate on the numbers we all know. Indeed, according to the original plans, the border construction would have been significantly more expensive than was planned, and that price was then EUR 190 million. Here, with various changes in government and ministerial exchanges, it was realised that it was not very reasonable to place this money there at that time and at that point, and it was cut. Now I am not the expert who tells us exactly what the impact of building a cheaper border would actually have on this so-called security and whether it was the best and most correct decision at that moment. But today I dare to confirm that, in the current knowledge and situation, in real economic conditions, I would remind you that, at the time of this decision, we were seriously talking about the cut-off budget and the need for cut-backs, as well as the revenue receipts from the state budget, we entered this corona crisis, we have a completely different knowledge and a different situation on the real, economic and revenue side, to which I have also referred. We have opportunities and we also have the knowledge that the European Union will allow financial assistance to be channelled there. So today I dare say that this high-quality border building should not remain behind financial capacity and financial resources. This is, then, a real question of political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U117	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There are two approaches to the border and to the construction of this border at all. One is known from the Stalinic song: "We have a ditch as the border and a bench as a watch post. We have a home to protect, we have a land to protect. Hey, who's there? Hey, who's there? Can't get through here, can't get through here! " I dare say it's like a little government approach. Instead, I am in favour of the position of the ancient Roman war theorist Flavius Vegetius Renatus si vis pacem, para bellum. If you want peace, prepare for war. What is your group's position on resolving this problem, the first or the second?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U119	Well, we must protect peace first and foremost. Peace must be protected and war must be avoided. In this sense, it is still the end of your question that makes sense. There is a need to prevent potential threats and also to address deterrence in order to give a signal to those politicians, countries, Heads of State who are planning such actions, as is currently being carried out in Belarus, that such action will be as complex as possible, as difficult as possible and may lead to negative consequences that they may not foresee. Well, we can all dream of a society without borders and a world without borders where people move freely, it's a beautiful theoretical dream. This must be pursued through diplomatic channels and through politics, but real life is different and we must be based on real life. So, yes, right now, in a peaceful situation, I think it is reasonable to deal with the construction of the border, in order to ensure that this peace is sustainable and that Estonia's security is guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U120	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. We can move on to the next waitress, who is Anti Poolamets, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U121	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Legal Affairs, I will review the handling of the draft decision of the Fatherland 435 on 15 November. Nine members of the Commission attended the Commission's discussion. No amendments were received. The Minister of the Interior was present at the debate and had a number of questions from various members of the Commission. Mr Jaani commented that he considered the construction of the border of high quality to be very important and explained that the construction of the border was being carried out and that 88 million, plus VAT, had been allocated to it. Kristian Jaani said that he does not currently see a threat at the Estonian external border, but there is a willingness to react quickly if necessary. Helir-Valdor Seeder stated that the proposal under discussion was about speeding up the planned completion of the border, as he said it would be particularly important in the current situation. The anti-Semimets asked Helir-Valdor Seeder what he thought today's threat assessment was, and the same question went to the Minister of the Interior. Helir-Valdor Seeder thought that thousands of people were illegally coming closer to Estonia, and behind it was Belarus and probably Russia. He was interested in [and asked] the Minister for the Interior when the security authorities and the government found out about the issue at Pihkva Airport. Kristian Jaani explained that there are currently 23.5 kilometers to the barrier fence where illegal border crossings are most likely. Vilja Toomas asked whether support could be expected from the European Union for the development of the external border and whether it had been discussed in the government. Kristian Jaani replied that Estonia, for a long time, had moved the idea of developing a minimum standard for the European Union's external borders. The anti-Semimets asked the Minister about the existence of a border facility. He pointed out that stain scissors helped against the barrier wire. If we are in a hurry, do we also have the capacity to set up more permanent gardens, which cannot be attacked by such simple means, as we have seen in Belarus? Kristian Jaani confirmed that the barriers that are currently being erected with the military are multilayered and quite high. The Commission unanimously decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today, 23 November, to appoint Mr Anti Poolam, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the representative of the leading commission, and to propose the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U122	Thank you very much. You could ask questions yourself. And there it is. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U123	[[Remote connection]] In Europe, in addition to Poland, which is currently doing an excellent job at its border, Hungary, for example, has established excellent barriers, fences, fences and fences on its borders in the context of the migration crisis, as a positive example. Did the Commission also address the experience of other countries in the fast-track construction of border fences?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U124	[[Remote connection]] There was no separate story. The Hungarian example was not used, but Lithuanian and Polish examples were used. It was stressed that this crisis could come to us very unexpectedly and quickly. That's what they agreed to. Hungary's practice, of course, should be examined separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U125	I don't see any more questions. We can go to the negotiations. The members of the political groups and committees may speak from the panel for five plus three minutes. I'm opening negotiations. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This issue is undoubtedly extremely important in today's security situation. Indeed, we must be aware that the pace that we have now chosen is still inadequate. Of course, the government, which, after some doubts as to whether the risk assessment is sufficiently high, has started to establish temporary barriers to the border, but bringing forward such permanent facilities for one year is clearly a low ambition. Maybe we could think a little bit about what we need these border barriers for. Here too, the waitress pointed out that we had a border incident where Eston Kohver, known to be at the border, would say that they were kidnapped or taken to Russia, were taken hostage. It was the first alarm clock that made us watch what's at our border. Indeed, there were narrow paths and some mud and lots of bush and forest. We have moved a little ahead of this today, but obviously with insufficient speed. The border is not just a garden. The border must also create manoeuvrability to protect the border, and roads are certainly important for that. In the Committee on National Defence, we had this topic under discussion, and it was also confirmed at the beginning that perhaps this situation is not so critical that it should be resolved quickly, but fortunately the Minister of Defence has today taken our reserveists to the border and, together with the active troops, these temporary barriers are being erected. I asked what has prevented the boundary strip from being cleaned within 30 meters of the circa, so that there could be an elementary manoeuvrability. What has prevented RMK from being assigned by the government to simply do this job? It does not take five years to do so; it takes one year, on the right hand, to carry out procurements and to organise this work, and to ensure that, after that, the brush is eroded, of course, so that this limit is really visible and can quickly be manoeuvring, if necessary, either with technology, light technology, heavier technology, manoeuvrable power. We didn't get an answer to that. In fact, we did not get an answer to that, and it also shows a little bit of this, not that our government does not want to defend the border, I am also sure in this respect that defending the border is important to our government, but they take it, I think, a little cold though. I'll bring in another component. We really know what is happening now, organised by Belarus, say Russia and Putin's ears are shining nicely out of there. But there's a guy like... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U127	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U128	... Vladislav Surkov, who brought Russia a concept of sovereign democracy. He has now also recently said that one of the cornerstones of Russian foreign policy is the export of chaos, namely the export of chaos to neighbouring countries or somewhere else, in order to reduce tensions, to suppress national dissatisfaction. All such chaos against any hybrid attacks is certainly also the construction of a border, the establishment of border facilities by sending a message that it does not go so easily, friends. It is a deterrent, a preventive instrument, and that is why I am quite sure that there should be a full consensus here. On behalf of the Fatherland Party, I call on the government to make the target by 2023, as Helir-Valdor Seeder already said in his speech, so that the border can be permanently fixed and built by then. Let's work together for this! If there is no border, then there is actually no country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U129	Thank you very much. Please, Hanno Pevkur! Three minutes extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U130	Ladies and gentlemen, especially colleagues from the Fatherland. If you come to this remote control, you'd better get up to speed first. The deforestation was agreed with RMK in 2015 and the whole border strip was cleared in 2015-2016. Now for your proposal for a decision. There are no political parties in this Chamber today, and there are no parties outside this Chamber, who would say that borders should not be built quickly. Of course he will, and this work will be done. But let's look back a little bit. I must make it clear that the construction of the Estonian border and the concerns about the state of the Estonian border were known to the Government of the Republic earlier when the illegal kidnapping of Eston Kohver took place in Russia from the territory of the Republic of Estonia. I went over my history notes, too. On 12 June 2014, I went to the border to examine the situation, and then, as far as the Ministry of the Interior was possible, we also allocated money to carry out the first work at the border. True, the kidnapping of Eston brought the border to a much wider consciousness and made decisions. On 26 September 2014, the Government of the Republic decided to establish border goals, celebrate the boundaries of the cadastral units and clear the border strip. And at the beginning of next year, as Minister of the Interior at the time, I also received a mandate from the Government of the Republic for the relevant border-building action plan. Indeed, at that time, it was foreseen that the funds planned for four years would be around EUR 20 million per year, namely EUR 79,5 million, which included the additional needs of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because the limit also meant the acquisition of certain floating equipment. What happened next was what needs to be done in building every normal border, namely buying land, clearing a border strip, designing a triple point. I have heard stories here later about how only when Mart Helme arrived as Minister of the Interior began to build the border. It is true that the agreement was signed then, but the construction of the border in all its complexity began much earlier in 2014-2015. We haven't been as fast as we could have been. True! One reason for this is, among other things, that governments changed, including the Minister of Finance of the Fatherland. Toomas Tõniste was the one during which no additional funds were allocated. So, good patriots, I don't mind you doing politics, saying that the border needs to be built faster, we need to build faster, we need to do a five-year job in four years. But you see, everything in this sense has its own history and its own reason. Breaking into an open door isn't like what you're supposed to be doing in this hall. As I said, all parties have the knowledge that the border must be built as quickly as possible. And if it is possible, the border must indeed be built up faster than is currently planned. Some important keywords. It was the governments of the Fatherland, the EKRE and the Centre Party that reduced the funding of the border. It also significantly reduced the project. The project was significantly reduced. This high-tech solution, provided with sensors and cameras, was pulled down. Basically, it's just the border fence. The trail was taken off, the animal barrier was taken off, a lot was cut off from what a normal border should contain. For the benefit of the wider public, there are also 190 million access roads, electricity grids, land purchase prices and so much more. So in this sense, when you come to this remote control, talking about the construction of the border, you might want to know what to say, why to talk, and what this time frame is. In purely construction, even if I really wanted to build a border in two years, then purely construction, I dare say, it's unrealistic. If we can do this in four years, even better in three years, super! But it takes a lot of effort, a lot of effort. But I think the Riigikogu does not have to be the one pointing the finger: now that it is known long ago that the border needs to be built, now we make a separate decision, we will build the border faster. The Riigikogu does not have to make such decisions, it is known for a long time, even during the political campaign, simply that we now have a problem with one of our closest neighbours with an aggressive Eastern partner or not with a partner, but with an Eastern border country, then we will move faster here too. We moved long before the Latvians did. The Latvians started building the border after us. We moved long before that in the Tampere Group, which is a group of countries with a land border of the European Union. We made a joint statement to the Council of Ministers of Europe and the European Commission to ensure that the land borders also receive common European Union instruments. I am pleased to hear that, to date, both the European Council and the Council of Ministers have realised that land borders also need resources, and that external resources will also come there to acquire monitoring techniques. But let us not create such a political illusion here that something changes quickly with the decision of the Riigikogu. It won't. Therefore, I do not think it makes much sense to break into an open door, and I am not afraid to say it and press the red one into your decision, and I believe that the Reform Party Group as a whole will also press the red one into that decision. Because it's just a political campaign and a game you're doing now, not that you actually did something to build the border faster when you were in government. No, you were part of the government that said we were gonna shut down the border building and we were gonna cut the border building plans. You have the same responsibility. Don't tell me now that we're going to make it faster. Together, we can all say that yes, we need to do it faster, but not with such an ad hoc political slogan. So, good patriots, come help us build the border! By the way, one thing that really needs to be done is to amend the Public Procurement Act and the State Border Act in order to allow public procurement to be carried out more quickly in order to build a state border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U131	Heiki Hepner, the line? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U132	Thank you. Good Hanno! Perhaps you would help explain that when we had talk about the construction of the border in the National Defence Committee and were asked why neither the Minister of the Interior nor after the Minister of Defence knew that the whole border band had been cut, and why it was necessary to give messages that RMK should deal with it. Probably this still indicates that indeed, 2015 was the idea to build the border quickly, because you yourself said that Estonia's 100th birthday was the wish to build out [the limit], but this thing has not moved so fast. That's the problem today. The problem is that it could actually be done. Now, of course, your complaint as to why the previous government reduced this funding. Well, indeed, Isamaa didn't keep the briefcase of the Minister of the Interior, but obviously you know very well what situation we were in, which was actually here with the health crisis, and despite this difficult situation, there was a way forward. In my opinion, the previous government should still be recognised here, not said why you didn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, the Isamaa Group was mentioned in the negotiations and this reply was currently made by Heiki Hepner. No other people who have signed up have been mentioned, so I can't give a line. Let's move on with the negotiations. For EKRE Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U134	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Here the previous speaker said that it had never been, how to say, so much attention was paid to these things, but [but] when the Reform Party started working on building this border, it was taken seriously. If we look at history, it is actually that already in the 1990s there was a plan to mark the border strip or the control line and to build border facilities, even offers were taken. But as I mentioned earlier, it was said that the border guard was overdeveloped. Next, the development took place in such a way that we sought all kinds of opportunities. The question is political. At the time, relations with our neighbour were a little different, and then politicians thought we didn't need any of that kind of border. As Chief of Staff at the Border Guard Board, when we worked hard to enter Schengen, I was responsible for entering Schengen. The Schengen requirements were and are very specific, what the border must look like and what the manning of the border must be. When we talk about the border, the guardian of the border is still human. As far as the facility is concerned, the facility is only a form of containment. That is why there is no point in putting different big whistles and other abilities there and spending money on it. It is a tactic of its own, and it can be learned and watched as all other countries, from Finland and finished with the United States, have built up their borders. From there it can be used in advance of this method and methodology, how to man and how to organise real protection at the border. If we're talking about building a border facility right now, it's an inevitable necessity, we're not getting out of here. In order to provide a certain response capability, we need to make this happen. As far as the question of Milling is concerned, the question is that there must be physical capacity at the border to resist various aggressions, and there is a human being for that there are defence-organized units who can and can and who also have the legal right to act against the attack. Today, we have practically police units on the border, who do not have training, who do not have leaders, who have the authority to lead an armed unit, and we do not have harvesters, who would also be legally protected in the event of a military attack. These are the most important issues that need to be resolved. If we do not resolve these issues, we will be talking here in ten years' time when we are talking about the need for a militaryised, command-lined border guard organisation, which under certain conditions will receive its task through defence forces and military leadership. There's nothing else we can do here that we have to take into account. And the border facility is the first thing we need to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U135	Thank you very much. I do not see any more wish for negotiations, I will conclude the negotiations. There were no amendments to this draft, and since it is OE, we can go straight to the final vote. The commission has proposed a final vote. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of this decision. First of all, it's a sergeant. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to prevent irregular migration in South-East Estonia to build a physical barrier quickly" draft 435. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U136	The proposal was supported by 27 delegates, 26 opposed to the proposal and no abstentions. The proposal was not accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U137	Let's move on to the agenda. The third item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. The rapporteur is Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft decision by the Social Democrats, which is good and simple. Indeed, it has had an automatic and very negative impact on our open electricity market, in a situation where the prices of fossil fuels used for energy production have increased sharply. Prices have risen rapidly for Estonian electricity consumers in a very short period of time, and in this situation the socialist vision is simple: the state must take steps to protect Estonian consumers, i.e. both domestic consumers, but certainly also Estonian companies, where the increase in electricity prices is undermining their international competitiveness. As we know, the electricity exchange price is not regulated by the state. That's the idea of a stock market price. However, there are other components in the price of electricity than the price of the stock exchange, or so far they have been in the majority, which is actually under national control in one way or the other. On the one hand, these are network charges, for which we currently have a temporary exemption adopted by the government, and on the other, they are components of a fiscal nature, mainly electricity excise duty and renewable energy charge. Now, in the case of electricity excise duty, it has been gratifyingly achieved that the return of the electricity excise duty will be postponed so that the electricity excise duty will not rise next spring if the Riigikogu approves this proposal. We'll support you. But the renewable energy charge is another component that has quite a considerable impact on consumers. Indeed, this year's renewable energy fee plus VAT amounts to EUR 13.6 per megawatt-hour. Before the last increase in electricity prices, we could say that the renewable energy charge is about a tenth of the price of electricity. Now that the electricity exchange price has risen, this share has slightly decreased, but it is still a considerable amount. The renewable energy charge is known to be the type of related revenue or the type of burden in which Elering collects from consumers the amount of renewable energy charge that it has to pay to renewable energy producers, to the owners of the production equipment that has been legally entitled to receive the renewable energy charge. This amount varies a little from year to year depending on when the entry-exit production equipment is in the support period, which is 12 years long. This year, this amount is EUR 100 million per year, which is collected from consumers from every electricity consumer and then paid to renewable energy producers in Estonia. Our proposal is that next year, the state would not charge the consumer for renewable energy and compensate Elering for the full amount of this amount from the state budget in order to pay out subsidies to renewable energy producers under the law, but that the consumer would be exempted from it. This money is certainly not small. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that, together with high electricity prices, the revenue of the State has increased. VAT revenues have increased significantly, and in addition to the increase in fossil fuel prices, as one of the components contributing to the increase in electricity prices is the increase in the price of CO2, the quota revenue of the country's emissions trading system has increased significantly, so that in the coming years the state budget will receive hundreds of millions of euros in additional due to the high price of electricity. For example, we have calculated that if the average price of electricity increases by EUR 50 per megawatt-hour, nearly EUR 85 million of additional VAT revenues will be received by the Treasury. This mechanism, that the government allocates money to Elering and reduces the burden on consumers, has already been used once last year by the government to prevent an increase in renewable energy charges this year. So there is nothing technically complex here, just political will and really a desire to meet the consumer on this issue at this moment. This is socially fair and also important in a slightly wider picture than just an electric bill. The green revolution, or changes in the economic life of our society, which we are facing and which are essential to prevent catastrophic climate change, may not be easy during the transition period. They may lead to certain components of the price of energy, transport, whatever increases in the price, and in this situation it is important that people's support for a more environmentally friendly policy is maintained, as well as the country's attitude is that, should this type of price shock arise, additional revenues, CO2 revenues, VAT revenues are used to mitigate it, not to use these additional revenues to meet other budgetary needs and to patch budgets, but indeed to use this money precisely to compensate for the price shocks arising from the green turn. That would be nicely done, nor would it really require major changes to the law. Consequently, our proposal has also been formulated as a decision of the Riigikogu: we propose to the government to foresee this money in the state budget, pay Elering and give consumers the necessary fair signal that no one will have to pay the renewable energy fee next year. I thank you and I am happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U139	Thank you very much. There are questions. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U140	[[Remote connection]] Thanks! With this draft, or with this proposal, if the government does it now, we are likely to reduce consumers' electricity bills. But we know that consumers who use district heating and heat at all are also rising heating bills. One very big reason for this is that due to the high electricity price and the fact that the government has allowed it, there is also a huge amount of high-quality wood, wood, in Narva. And if there is such a big market for wood in Narva, then the heat of the cities will become more expensive and as a result these heating bills will also increase. What can it do to ease it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U141	Thank you. Indeed, with a certain surprise, I followed the surprise of the members of the government when it was decided in this hall that the Social Democrats were heroic in opposing it, but the majority of the votes supported the fact that in Narva they could start to burn trees massively. The volumes envisaged are very large. We know that a large part of Estonia's cities are heated with chipping wood, and if demand increases significantly in the same product segment, this could probably also lead to an increase in the price of this fuel. This was also discussed in the draft procedure, but nevertheless it was adopted, and now we are in a situation where several district heating companies have actually signalled that they intend to ask the Competition Authority for permission to raise the price. So it was a bad decision, and it's still bad. The government holds the view that [though] the legislator has adopted the framework that it is indeed possible to burn trees in the oven in Narva with subsidies, but there is no need for such a less bid. So, in fact, the government continues to have the lever that this opportunity is created by the legislator, but there is no obligation. And frankly, in this situation, where there is a risk that the price of heating will rise in the larger cities of Estonia that heat with chipping wood, I think it would be only reasonable to say that such a lower offer does not come in a situation where, let's be honest, the whole scheme was aimed at improving the economic performance of oil shale power plants. Given the high price of electricity, their financial results are pretty good right now. So it might be too much to subsidise it from the consumer's pocket in such a way as to increase the price of heating as a result. We could not offer this less, and that would also be my clear appeal to the government. On the other hand, we have those cities where modern heating capacity has not developed and where, for example, natural gas is heated. Of course, the increase in the price of heating there is much higher than that of cutting wood plants, due to the fact that natural gas is a commodity on the world market and prices have increased significantly there. For example, heating peak load cannot be covered with renewable fuel in Tallinn. This means that if, for example, we have a very cold winter in the coming months, gas boilers will be put into operation, and certainly the price of this heating will be significantly higher than we are used to so far. So on this issue too, however, despite the stupid decisions that have already been made, it is still possible to make a wise decision in order to prevent worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U142	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Evgeny! I might ask about the government's wise decisions, because I don't understand the logic of the government, maybe you can explain. With regard to the same electricity price, on the one hand, we have now achieved no increase in excise duties on electricity and, on the other hand, we have temporarily reduced network charges, but at the same time we are in the process of a draft which will increase the renewable energy charge by as much as 40%. We understand that they want to support large consumers, but where the logic here is in relation to ordinary consumers and is this a sensible plan for the government at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U144	Thank you. Well, almost schizophrenic, you might say. On the one hand, an attempt is being made to show how the concerns of high electricity prices are being understood and attempted to alleviate them, on the other hand, a click is being given to the procedure to actually support a handful of large companies that really consume a great deal of electricity, all the remaining 99% of consumers, both businesses and households, would have to pay for it through a higher renewable energy fee. At first reading, we have discussed this here. I really hope that this plan will be taken off the table. It's a crazy idea. It is true that the problem exists that we have companies for which the electricity component is a very large part of their input. If they compete on the international market, in another country, even in our near future, energy prices are lower for large producers, for example, so I will not deny the competition problem. Some solutions have already been sought here, as regards the distinction between large consumers' electricity excise duties, for example, but it should certainly not and is not fair to do so in such a way that everyone else would have to pay more to offer major relief. This is certainly not acceptable in my opinion. Luckily, there's a solution. The solution is, in fact, that all subsequent fewer offers of renewable energy, where large windmill parks and so on will be built in the next decade, will be financed no longer by a consumer tariff, not by a renewable energy charge, but by quota revenues. Since, as I said, quota revenues are increasing significantly, there is a lot of money there and instead of allowing consumers to pay for it, all new projects, which also come at a much lower price as a result of the fact that technology prices have fallen, could actually finance CO2 from quota revenue. This is possible and it would be wise to do so, and it would now help both the big producers and everyone else, so that we in the nearest, I don't know, in the decade we actually get there to make sure that the renewable energy charge reaches zero, so that we don't even have such a line on the bill that it will gradually decrease. It would make sense to do so, and I have also not understood why the government has not made this proposal, but has proposed that small businesses and households pay off electricity bills for large mammoth consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U145	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U146	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It is clear that the rise in fossil fuel prices, partly due to geopolitical ambitions, is responsible for high electricity prices. The unexpected rise in prices hits many of us hard in the winter period, putting people's livelihoods at risk. It is understandable that, in the short term, the government wants to lower taxes so that energy consumption is affordable for people. However, it is a very short-sighted decision, it can really only be done with one or two winters in mind. Looking further ahead, what are these possible solutions, what steps should the government take to ensure that the price of electricity is reasonable for the Estonian consumer in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U147	Thank you! Of course, we are primarily dealing with a short-term issue in our proposal in order to really cushion this price increase, which is largely due to the rise in fossil fuel prices. Now, in the long view, only one solution is possible, and it is that we no longer produce electricity from fossil fuels. If, over the last decade, we had made substantial progress on this issue and we would have, for example, greater wind power capacities, solar power capacities, other so-called fossil fuel-free productions today, this price would be different. You can control this very easily with our stock market price compared to Finland and Estonia. There are hours like this, this hour, when the price of electricity is just as high in both us and Finland and high in it. But if you look at evenings or weekend hours, for example, Finns have a zero electricity price, we still have a pretty high one. If we had more of our own local renewable energy production, we could enjoy significantly lower electricity prices. Unfortunately, there has been no substantial development of wind energy in Estonia for ten years. [There have been] all kinds of regulatory obstacles and no substantive solutions by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For the last three years, there has been a scheme for new offers. So far, no less offers, no big less offers. Every September, it is promised that this autumn will come. This September also promised that this autumn would come, but we are now talking about projects that will be realised there in 2025, 2026. The big and real solution is, of course, what is currently behind the various regulatory processes: sea wind parks. We actually continue to have a plan to complete. There are a variety of other obstacles, the subject of farm charges, the topics of electrical connections, so-called phantom connections, where companies have bought the connection capacities, no one else can develop anything, they themselves do not develop for one reason or another. So, to a large extent, this is actually the work done by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, why we are in a position today that we do not have enough of these capacities. But there is no alternative; we must move quickly to meet our environmental objectives and, of course, to provide our consumers with electricity that is favourable to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U148	Mr Kalvi Tough, we have one question to ask each of the rapporteurs on this item. Indrek Island has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U149	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, hello! Here, every once in a while, when the government comes again with another attempt or another attempt by the government to increase subsidies for renewable energy charges in the burning of wood in Narva power plants, we talked about how this will help to significantly lower the price of heating in Narva or to reasonably maintain the price of heating. What are these stories really like, and how should we act in concrete terms regarding the heating costs of this region and this region? What would be a reasonable solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U150	Thank you. Here again, it is the same thing that since 2015 the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been actively pressing for Narva Baltic Power Plant or other oil shale boilers to receive renewable energy subsidies. In one government with a bill, in another government, in the third six years, the subject has been marinated. Finally, a majority of the Riigikogu and a coalition of government have taken this anti-environmental decision. What has not been done at the same time is a modern renewable fuel boiler house for the city of Narva. If it existed today, it would not be a question of increasing the price of CO2 where oil shale energy has become uncompetitive, the price of heat on the narvas must be increased. And in order to soften it, you have to put this oil shale in the woods and then pay for it, and then maybe the heat costs of the narvas won't rise as much as they would otherwise have. That's pretty much the argument that's going on right now. So, first of all, if, once again, the Ministry of Economic Affairs had a substantive leadership on this issue, this problem would not have been on the table today. But that's the past, the problem is on the table today. Okay, we could accept that, and I've also said that if we're talking about agreeing in the next few years that in Narva we're gonna pay a little bit to ease the rise in the price of heating, it's temporary, and so on, you could even discuss it. However, point one, the law that was passed, does not really concern Narva's heating much, but allows the trees to be driven into the oven subsidised without any heating component, with only the heating component of the Narva River, which concerns, for example, the burning of wood at Auvere Station, which is actually permitted by this scheme. Secondly, this boiler house is still not being built. A certain amount of money from the Fair Transfer Fund has been agreed for this purpose; knowledge has been there since spring, but in fact there are no decisions on the matter. Perhaps at the moment, I do not have the optimism that in three years' time, for example, modern renewable fuel will become a source of heating for the city of Narva. This leadership, unfortunately, still doesn't appear to be the case. But I really need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U151	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U152	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, I had a question about this Narva roommaker because I know Narva very badly. You are saying that there is no renewable energy boiler house, that instead wood is heated into another furnace. What, then, do you think the hypothetical Narva boiler house should be heated with? However, if wood is used, what difference does it make whether it is heated with wood from a boiler house or wood from an electric platter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U153	Thank you for this question. The difference is technological. Narva is being heated today with the 11th block of the Baltic Power Plant. The 11th block of Narva is renovated on oil shale beds, where it is possible to mix up to 50% of the wood. The alternative is a cogeneration plant, which produces both heat and electricity at the same time and has a 100% efficiency, i.e. it uses all the heat and also generates more electricity. Now, the distinctive feature of the Baltic Power Plant is that it cannot work on 100% renewable fuel, and in some ways this support scheme can also be considered as a subsidy for the production of oil shale electricity, i.e. it is not competitive to produce from oil shale alone today. In terms transferred today, because it is today, when the price of electricity is 250 euros per megawatt-hour, that of course is competitive. However, in a new situation where CO2 prices have risen, only oil shale production would lead to an increase in the price of heating, then we have to mix it into wood, pay it off, and then we will be able to reduce this price increase. That's the logic of the moment. The alternative, as stated, is a 100% renewable cogeneration plant with a primary energy efficiency of 100% and which does not have to buy the CO2 quota. I hope that explanation was understandable. Unfortunately, on the way, I do not see your noding or your disapproval, but if this was not clear, good colleague Akkermann, I will be happy to explain it to myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U154	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U155	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! How much would the Social Democrat proposal affect the average Estonian family's monthly electricity bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U156	Yeah, like I said, we're talking about this year, then 13.6 euros per megawatt-hour or 13.6 cents per kilowatt-hour. Next, the average family, the average electricity consumer in Estonia is very small because he lives in an apartment and he does not heat with electricity, but heats through district heating, so this amount is relatively small. This concerns, to a large extent, those consumers who heat electricity, and that is what we have. There are some others who are even powered by electric radiators, but certainly in the last decade, many have moved from old covers to heat pumps, for example, that work with electricity. Another important component of the purely monetary key is definitely companies. After all, we know that in Europe, for example, a number of electrical intensive companies have just stopped their production; they are not working at the moment because the price of electricity is very high. So for them, this is certainly a'significant economic issue'. In the case of households, as I said, one side is undoubtedly that several euros are being saved from the exact electricity bill there, but it can be said that there is not much money. Not on the one hand, but on the other hand, for me it is precisely such a view of value that, in a situation where prices are rising, and these are not the only prices that are rising, and at the same time the revenue of the state is rising for the same reason, the revenue from VAT is increasing, the revenue from the CO2 quota is a fair stance on the part of the state to say that this additional overreach, which is because we do not take it and spend it on the road, but we actually give it back to consumers as much as possible. This is also important in the longer term view, because greening or, say, the transition to environmental friendliness in energy and other areas is a very long process and we need people to support it. If people feel that this will only lead to higher prices, and the government will shoulder it and say thank you, we can meet any other additional needs here for this money, it will certainly reduce people's support for this whole transition process, and we should not allow that. I think the attitude that we say, yes, in the case of those components that we control, we use this additional overreach to provide relief, maybe even as a 'political message', is more important than the specific amount that it is financially for smaller households that really do not heat electricity. But, as I said, those who heat with electricity will also have a tangible effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U157	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. We can go to the co-report. I invite Jürgen Ligi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance decided to send this draft to the final vote and it did so on 15 November. Throughout this debate, one opposition partner supported the draft rapporteur by arguing that this concerns people. If you finger the protocol, I don't remember any more than I do. What's the problem? First of all, it's purely budgetary. If this source is advertised, I call this speech advertising, because it does not sound so clearly in the speech as it is in excess of CO2, it is, unfortunately, already spent money. It is therefore intended to support less-insured families, which is undoubtedly also the wish of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Next, the overcharge word that VAT comes over and so on. There is no such thing as overcharge in the budget. We have a very serious budget deficit and the budget is then locked down so that no one can change the forecasts in the course of the procedure according to the need for expenditure, so the budget is simply made. By the Committee on Finance, I think it is important to fix this. Individual tax types will not be re-evaluated after the official forecast has come, and this formal forecast will also guide the budgetary process. I believe that this is also included in the directive. What did not yet please the Committee on Monetary Affairs is that this renewable energy charge is being stigmatised as something negative. In general, however, especially with regard to the green turn, we consider this fee to be [positive]. This was very controversial in its time, for example, by our group, which did not support much, with exceptions, however, which was adopted without any analysis. This scheme has been redesigned, this share of renewable energy in electricity prices is decreasing, a declining measure. All the more so as an instrument, he's fading. However, in itself, renewable energy is, as has been said, a charge for renewable energy investments and actual energy price control can still be through investments. As the waitress implied here. Whether or not it likes Narva Power Plants, the Commission did not take a position on this. Social side. It is important that social democrats are involved. Riina Sikkut also highlighted this or agreed that the social distribution of the measure was very important. Undoubtedly, this fight against electricity prices is socially counterproductive in that it is ultimately going to be expensive for the budget, but the major winners are the larger consumers and the larger consumers in general are also on higher incomes. This correlation is very strong, including when we talk more about what [talk] the waitress said about electric heating and heat pumps. There's electric heating. This is still linked to a correlation with a higher income in the sense that if most of the support goes to higher income citizens, it is not socially productive. What else didn't like about the Commission? Still, the consumer has to pay his own bills. There must be a very strong argument that the taxpayer will pay consumer bills. This is a general principle of responsibility, which would require very clear arguments to be changed. A society where there is the other way around is not sustainable. That is how we decided that the final vote would be, and no one would know in advance how the result would be. The Commission does not make recommendations for a vote, but that was the spirit when it went into debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U159	There are questions. Ants Laaneots, please! Please! Ants, we can see you, but we can't hear you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U160	[[Remote connection]] You see now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U161	Yeah, here you go.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U162	I wanted to support the predecessor in saying that I don't think we have a positive option, but I just happened to get in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U163	There was no question then, was there? Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U164	Thank you for your support to the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U165	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U166	Hello and thank you for the floor. Good waitress! Could you enlighten us on what the Reform Party Group is planning to do in this vote? Have you two agreed on what you're doing, and can you explain why? After all, we realise that in the current energy prices, all this renewable energy is being brought into a certain light. We have seen those who are generally skeptical or even hostile about renewable energy take advantage of the situation in order to say that all renewable energy must be thrown out of the window and happily bounced away from the chimney by smokining fossil fuels. In general, the Reform Party has so far rather sought to maintain such a renewable energy-friendly line. The chairman of your party has always said he supports it. Are you still in that spirit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U167	Thank you. In committee, no member of the Reform Party Group betrayed the decision of their group. However, there were members of the Reform Party Group who held the debate, and here I have just described it on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-23_U168	Thank you very much. No further questions. Now I see we have exactly two minutes left. I don't think we can open negotiations. Or, however, let us write down the wishes of the negotiations, and then we will continue with them in tomorrow's session. I'm opening negotiations. But there's no wish. I'm closing the negotiations. Then we can go to the vote. We can still make a final vote before the end of the sitting. Ah, there have been no amendments here, so we will not examine them. Well, I can't do it, they're telling me. Then it is that we will continue to deal with this item in tomorrow's sitting and today's sitting is closed. Thank you.
