ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 4th working week Tuesday session of the VI plenary session. It is now possible to hand over drafts or enquiries. Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to do so. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Pension Insurance Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when processing this bill. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Pensions Act, the Tax Administration Act and the Income Tax Act. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance. All four drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U3	Thank you, Mrs Tõnisson. As there are no more drafts and requests for information, I can inform you that the four drafts have been adopted, they have been received electronically and the Bureau will decide on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, it's possible to carry out a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U4	67 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U5	We will begin the examination of the agenda for the Tuesday sitting. The first item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, initiated by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, a member of the Riigikogu. Please present this bill by Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U6	Honourable Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. I'm gonna start by telling you why I came up with this initiative. In 2016 the National Audit Office stated in its annual report entitled "Management and Financing of Estonian National Broadcasting" that the law should be amended to ensure the balance of the Council. The audit points out that the election of the members of the Governing Council has not always taken place in such a way as to enable the public to understand the considerations of the appointment of specific candidates to the Council. Basically, the reason why we have to deal with the law on national broadcasting at the moment is quite simply mentioned here. Above all, we will pay attention to the procedure, or how we select expert experts. It is also important to mark that the National Broadcasting Act was adopted in 2007 and has not been substantially amended since then, although the media landscape has changed significantly over the past years. Another important concept that I deal with in this bill is, of course, the 'national broadcasting council'. It plans the activities of the ERR, organises the management of the ERR and supervises the activities of the Executive Board. According to the current law, the Supervisory Board consists of members of the Riigikogu and recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting, or experts in ordinary language. According to the current Act, the members of the ERR Board are appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Cultural Committee. Members of the Riigikogu are appointed as members of the Supervisory Board from each political group until the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu. It is important to mark that I am not proposing any changes here. Perhaps in the same way in the ERR Council, there will be a representative of each political group, a representative of each political group. This will ensure that there is a political balance at the level of the ERR Council. The purpose of the amendment and the subject of the change are expert experts. The aim is to ensure greater independence from the political procedure for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of recognised experts in the field of the ERR. As was said, in order to ensure that the procedure for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board is more independent from political decisions and to enable the authorities, institutions and representative organisations involved in the field of activity of the ERR to propose recognised experts who do not have to go through the political appointment procedure, a system has been set up which is included in this draft law. This is similar to the National Opera Act, in which [members] are appointed by the bodies, institutions or representative organisations mentioned in the Act. The nominated member does not need to be a member of this institution, institution or representative organisation, but it is important that, by having an overview of the recognised experts in its field and considering the tasks of the ERR Board and the activities of national broadcasting, a qualified person is appointed who is judged to be the most appropriate member of the Board. The members of the board of recognised experts in the field of activity of the ERR Board are appointed according to the draft by the Council of Rectors, the Association of Journalists, the Confederation of Employers and the Bar Association. I'll explain why. The Council of Rectors has an overview of the best experts in the field of journalism and media, as Tartu University and Tallinn University have the strongest academic competence centres in their respective fields. The Union of Journalists has a broad view of the daily functioning media landscape. The Employers' Confederation has an overview of recognised professionals in the economic field. Legal expertise is represented as far as possible in the Bar Association. Once again, I stress that my draft is aimed at ensuring political independence, which means that every representative of the political group will be represented in the Council in the future. We are only talking about experts, and those we ask for under the label of experts are named by the organisations that I offer here. During the debate in the Committee on Culture, I said that a fundamental change to the procedure in that part, who will appoint its members, will be represented here, and I am fully open and ready for discussion. We can really decide together who would be the institutions that are competent enough to appoint experts there. Why did I offer my list? I offered it because, since I myself have been a member of the ERR Council, I know what experts we need there first and foremost. In particular, it raises questions on the basis of economic issues, legal nuances and, of course, on the issues of the media landscape. That is why these four experts could be named by the institutions that I have listed here. I have been communicating with representatives of the institutions, everyone is ready and willing and supports the proposed scheme. I also had contact with the management of the ERR, of course, and it seems to them that it is time to take account of what the National Audit Office pointed out. Another important nuance is that this law should apply from 2025. Why? Because with this bill, I did not want to create political turbulence and talk about personal issues. Perhaps the experts we mentioned last year, for example, will continue their work and this law will not concern them in this case. This concerns the new regulation, which would only be in force from 2025. In short, I introduced you to this bill. Now what I'm saying is that it was a little sad to read the opinion of the Ministry, not a little bit, but a very sad. First of all, the Ministry takes no account of the fact that the Riigikogu may become some kind of political initiative. The National Audit Office spoke about this deficit of the Act already in 2016. In fact, five years is long enough to come up either with the initiative of the Riigikogu or with the initiative of the Ministry. Unfortunately, this has not happened and that is why I propose this option. I'm going to read what the Ministry said to me. The Ministry replied literally: "The subject matter addressed in the draft is very important, but these issues require a substantive and broader debate, which also requires meetings with all stakeholders and stakeholders. " The question is what prevents the meeting of stakeholders from starting this debate and why it is necessary to reject the initiative that comes from Parliament, if it is indeed very important. I think that this bill, ultimately, is a good example of whether the word is free or whether we still want to regulate it politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U7	Good waitress, you have some questions for your colleagues. Initiating Eduard Odines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U8	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I personally support the change in the principles in the appointment of experts to the National Broadcasting Council, and I understand your concern that such political dependence should be reduced or political independence guaranteed. However, how can we ensure that these so-called independent experts, appointed by different organisations, are also politically independent? We know that certain organisations on this list have, at certain times, been politically biased towards one or another political force. Is it still fulfilling the noble purpose you've come up with?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U9	I very much hope that it will, and I very much hope that this draft, on the side of its proposal, will be a major step towards ensuring this independence. As has been said, the Auditor General points out that the current system is not transparent, needs to be corrected. From our experience as politicians, we know excellently for years that whoever is in power is trying to manipulate this competition even a little. So let us be very honest with ourselves and look at this issue and see where we can really ensure that the word is free.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U10	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U11	Thank you. Good Victoria! You said in your speech that the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act has not been amended in a long time. Indeed, I think it was 2007 or 2005 or when it was. The question is immediately about this: should we not think through a whole new text instead of a piecemeal change, because other parts, apart from the procedure for electing the members of the Supervisory Board, would need to be changed? For example, I am not at all satisfied with how accessibility has been dealt with in the National Broadcasting Act and how Estonian Public Broadcasting delivers it. Shouldn't we let the Ministry do it in any way and instead of repairing parts, make a good law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U12	Excellent question. Thank you for that question. Why is she great? Because we understand, and I understand myself, that since the law was passed in 2007 and the media landscape is stormy and that it has really changed very much in recent years, it is clear that there are nuances that could be handled differently, which could be deduced and perhaps open up a debate on other issues as well. But once again, political reality. With regard to this proposal, this bill, I communicated, I think, with a lot of politicians both during the previous coalition and during the present coalition. That answer, a very honest answer, is: take it or leave it. If you come with one proposal, you will be told that you know that there is no overall picture here, there is no complete package. If you come with the whole package, they'll tell you, you know, I'd vote in favour, but you have some unpleasant things inside of it. Ultimately, as a politician, you do not know how to do the right thing: either to put the whole package and the whole solution at the table right away, or to do the step by step. In this case, I decided that, above all, I would like to propose a solution specifically for this procedure of experts. It does not exclude that I will come up with other topics that need to be discussed at the level of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U13	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Let me remind you that exactly a year ago, I was at the very top where I defended the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act in order to change the principles that have been fossilized and have remained in it at a level that is no longer acceptable in modern society. Then it happened that despite the fact that even the former Minister of Justice, Rein Lang, said that there were quite good things there, this amendment to the law was voted down, and you also voted it down. But, well, it's your choice. The question now is that when I worked it out, I saw that the Council's role in the ERR was marginal. All the keys are in the board's hands, since... Well, there's a lot of problems, I'm running out of time. I'm asking why you didn't take this seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U15	Mr President, I would like to ask you a question. Your draft and my draft are, unfortunately or fortunately, very different things, and that is why I am talking about the substance of my draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U16	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In fact, time has also shown that very many capable professionals are not part of these representative organisations today. Examples can also be given of the current members of the Broadcasting Council, who have been appointed as experts in accordance with the same procedure. They may not be sitting there anymore, but they've been sitting on the broadcasting board as members. But I would like to ask you about the in-depth analysis of this draft, which you have referred to and also referred to in the Committee on Culture. Can you give a few words of enlightenment to those sitting in the hall, which is precisely what this in-depth analysis was about? How did you achieve this result, the need to change it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U18	The in-depth analysis was that we first based on the fact that the report of the National Audit Office was already known. This was known from 2016. Several competitions had already taken place, where all these problems had come out, exactly the same. I cannot say that every time, or every choice of expert, there is absolutely the same problem, but still this issue of transparency has arisen. As there were many questions, it led me to work through it and to communicate more with people at the level of the ERR Board, at the level of the ERR Management Board, including with the advisers of our Committee on Culture, to see what possible analogys are possible, which are possible options to offer in the draft law. I think this is a good initiative for this debate to take place in the future. It seems to me that we still have to offer something when we know the substance of this problem. That's why I came up with it, and that's why the whole package that I had analyzed now found a place in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U19	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I fully agree with you on this issue. Yes, the ERR is politically biased, and I felt it on my skin in 2014. But, of course, it would be good if there wasn't a phenomenon. Now we begin to think that simply by replacing people, there will be a situation where the organisation is no longer political. That means you're offering to somehow find people whose brains are in this sense tabula rasa, a clean page that they don't have political views. It becomes particularly funny when I see that it has been offered to find someone in the Estonian Journalists' Association. Find someone who doesn't have political views from one party or another... Time's up. How do you comment on that? Where do we find these?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U21	There are, in fact, two questions on your question. With the first one, I wouldn't create any discussion here. I didn't say it was politically biased. I am talking about the subject of this procedure and where there are procedurally weak points where we, as politicians, would rather abuse this situation. Secondly, yes, as I have said, the four instances or the four variants from which to ask for these experts have been proposed by me as I thought it would make sense. Because we really need economic, legal and media expertise there. But, as was said in my original speech, I understand that there may be a debate here. In this sense, your question could be justified by the fact that perhaps you are offering a better option. You could do better than that. Finally, on this issue, I would say that, you know, we may be looking for an ideal solution, but as long as we do not have an ideal solution, nothing can prevent us from offering the best of what we have, not waiting for when, ultimately, it will happen that absolutely apolitical people will come from somewhere. I don't know if that's how it's supposed to be. The world view is not a sin, but just that it is not politically influenced by this choice of experts, I mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U22	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U23	Thank you. Dear Viktoria! Good President! Actually, Viktoria, there are definitely two parts to my question. The first part is very simple: what problem do you want to solve with this bill? We've been with you on the National Broadcasting Council. I don't remember having a situation at some meetings where we look at each other inquisitively, I don't know what to do, I don't know what to do, or I don't know what to do, because we don't have the competence, legal or economic, or whatever. In this plan, I do not understand why you are trying to define it very much so that these and these alliances should be presented. Well, in that case, why not someone from the Public Prosecutor's Office, then get a lawyer to help. But the second question is: Do you think it is a shame for a person to have a view of the world or a political preference?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U24	The second question I answered was when I tried to answer Mikhail. But on the first question, I think you're arguing against yourself right now. About a year and a half ago, the last competition was announced by the Committee on Culture. You remember this wonderfully, what turbulence appeared in this Chamber, what the questions were. As I said at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, it is recorded, and with this sentence I do indeed agree, often behind the chosen expert is the label of a particular party, which is humiliating for both the expert and the independence of national broadcasting for important keepers. In this sense, I realise that the problem is, above all, the conduct of the procedure, not even so much about what is happening during the Council meeting in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U25	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U26	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Life often tends to be such that an event causes some changes in the law. For example, the scooter is in a major accident and the speed of the scooters is about to be limited, etc. Can you also point out any specific cases that might be behind this bill? Have there been incompetent experts in the Council who might not have done their job? Can you tell me anything about the experts you've been working on? What is this mechanism to ensure that they are apolitical according to the new system? What if the next day they step into a party? We can't stop that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U27	I understand your question. As I have said many times, indeed, my political experience, or what I have seen over the years, has given me substance to act. Perhaps what is mentioned in the reports of the National Audit Office was exactly the same as the experience has shown me. Look, if you're in power, you might feel like you might be able to influence certain councils or their composition. If you're in opposition, you obviously don't like it. But I have had the same opinion both at the moment I was in opposition, and now I am in opposition, as well as when I was a member of the coalition. Perhaps I saw that there was such a nuance that raises questions and not only politically raises questions, but, above all, in a wider society, among the media people and those who are running, who are trying to take part in this competition, and then they realise that they were unfortunately a background player.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U28	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U29	Thank you very much. Good Victoria! Political reality and political views cannot be pushed away from people. But that's it. I actually wanted to draw attention to the choice of experts from what you said. You said it was in the fields. Would you explain how these areas have been chosen, of which the Council should then be composed? For example, I have this feeling that, now that the world is opening up in many ways, accessibility is being given attention and could also be an accessibility expert on the Council. Question two, very important. We can see right here in the hall that experts also have very big disputes between themselves, they have conflicting, wall-to-wall opinions. How would such a situation contribute to the management of the ERR?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U30	I'll be perfectly clear. There is a Council with a representative of each political group, which already ensures political balance. Perhaps world-view aspects have already been taken into account. Next, there are independent experts who, according to the current system, are still elected here in the Riigikogu, yet we choose them and approve them. This automatically means that those who are coalitionists, for example, have more opportunity to influence this composition and thereby influence the ERR as a whole. That's the problem. Looking for people who are completely independent is relatively difficult. But to make sure that this path here is this politician and somewhere his goal is to be as complex as possible and as long as possible, so we can. This in this case, from this point of view, in order to ensure independence, would be a good principle. Why did I choose the ones I called, who could name experts? Once again, I stress that this is the place of debate, indeed. Together, we can think about what experts might be interested in the ERR Council and the ERR as a whole. It seemed to me, and as far as my experience tells me, that economic issues, legal issues and, of course, the broader picture of media issues really do come into being there. That's why I offered them four institutions, according to the fact that the current law requires four experts. But once again, I stress that this is only the first reading. There could be a debate between the first and second readings; we could invite possible stakeholders from the Committee on Culture, the ERR leadership, certainly, and also discuss politically what these solutions could be. Because if we admit that we have a problem since 2016, but we just don't deal with it, it's not quite normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U31	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. As I have already said, I support this approach and strongly support the discussion in this Riigikogu about the organisations that could be part of it. Unfortunately, I am one of the few people in the Commission who supported the initiation of this draft and this debate. I still do not understand why the other Members of the Commission are so reluctant to change this principle. Perhaps you can explain why the members of the Committee on Culture and, above all, the coalition partners, the Centre Party and the Reform Party are opposed to changing this principle? What are they afraid of? What harm does it do to the Estonian media landscape and national broadcasting, such a change in the principle of naming experts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U33	This is definitely good for the Estonian media landscape, and it is good for society. The fears of politicians are often linked to whether we can control something indefinitely or not. I would understand this criticism, if I suggested that politicians should not be there at all, I would understand where this criticism comes from. But so, perhaps, our representatives there, every group representative is there, our representative is there. It should be ensured that this organism is more effective, and once again I stress that we still have a public space. He primarily speaks to society, not so much to politicians. I would really expect this discussion, as was officially stated in the Minister's papers, to be very important. I guess I would very much like this debate to continue, and yet the coalition ambassadors would certainly support the completion of the first reading of this draft and the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U34	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U35	Good colleague! You as a former member and I as a current member, we know quite well that neither the members of the council should deal with this creative side and the substantive side, but rather our task is more broadly to control financial discipline and various financial agreements and competences in this area. Today you have stressed this political balance several times or that the word is free. That's where the question arises. I do not understand what the purpose of this bill is. On the one hand, we are talking, right, about such financial competence, but on the other hand, about the freedom of the word. Do you want to set new assignments just like the members? Maybe we should be dealing with this side, but the law doesn't see that right now. Perhaps there is no political balance, is there, in the press? What's the point, though, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U36	I've been talking about the goal for quite a while. The aim is to change the procedure. The balance is now and it stays. I totally agree with you on that, you know that from your experience, which is the competence of the ERR Council. We do not go into the content, for example, we must not adjust the content of any programme. I listed what are the aspects of the competence of the ERR Council from the very beginning. In this I agree with you that indeed this substantive work, which is on the Council, is somewhat different from the way it is dealt with from outside. Perhaps many really believe that it deals primarily with certain values. I would like to remind you that there is an ethical advisor for this, for example, and then there will be a social council that will all work on the ERR. So I tried to answer your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U37	Now Kalle Grünthal is asking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have heard that the purpose of your draft is to influence the ERR as a whole to make programmes and decisions that are in line with the concept of 'free word'. The question is that the National Broadcasting Act is actually drawn up under the management structure of a public limited company in the Commercial Code. The difference is only that if the board of public limited liability companies has a powerful power, they can release everyone from work and take decisions to release the board of directors, then the opposite is true in the case of the ERR law: there is practically no way of releasing the board, the only role in determining the board of directors is to approve the board of directors and then it chooses its own team. Why have you chosen the council as your target, but not the board, whose, let's say, setting up would be much more logical and reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U39	I have a feeling that your question does not match the content of my bill. I'm sorry it's relatively difficult for me to answer your question because he's from a completely different opera.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U40	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U41	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! It seems to me, listening to this debate, that there have also been substantive complaints that are not true. Like, in the direction of the coalition, what they're afraid of. Listening to the debate in this Chamber, it seems to me more and more that this draft, which is a good initiative, maybe there are some shortcomings, that it is not like this question, that everyone is somehow opposed to it, but there are many confusing places or some kind of inaccuracies that can be improved and made more concrete. Have you yourself found any improvements to this bill for today? Or how do you move on with it so it doesn't just drown in here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U42	That's right, Heidy, you just said it. I very much hope that we will go on and all together, both the coalition and the opposition, in order to really create a debate and to include these things that would be consensual. It would not be my wish to accuse the coalition or opposition, we have all been both opposition and coalition. This problem is actually familiar to one side and the other. So in this sense, I very much hope that those who are currently in the coalition will think along and allow me, as well as, in general, to continue this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U43	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U44	Thank you. Dear waitress, In answering my first question, you said (I quote) that we, as politicians, are abusing the situation. And a little later, I'll quote, maybe you'll offer a better option. Yeah, sure, there's an option. Politicians have the opportunity to abuse the situation because the financing of the ERR comes from this hall. Let us cut down on this funding and all abuses by politicians will end instantly. But the question is something else. I hear a lot of words right now, but I don't have any factory in this problem. Whether you could have a limited time to answer, you can give 10 or 20 examples of how politicians have abused the situation, even two or three. Please provide specific examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U45	Okay. On what was in the first half of your question, I say this is a fairly common understanding. I think that this dispute ultimately goes where there is a difference between public space and public television or public radio. The fact that taxpayers' money goes there certainly means that political representation should also be at the level of the Council, and this will be maintained. The other thing is that if we want it to work better and protect the things that are enshrined in the ERR law, these are the nine points for which ERR exists, then we need experts to do so. You asked me what these troubled places were. As was said in my explanatory memorandum first, second, in my performance today, that the National Audit Office has brought it out. You also remember that, in your political life, there have certainly been several competitions when the same questions arise each time the competition takes place. Were the people who were elected to this council the best of the participants in the competition, or were there other factors? In order not to have these clues, it is necessary to change this procedure. Firstly, because the current procedure raises questions, and secondly, so that we as politicians feel better too, so that no shadows fall over us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U46	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U47	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Victoria! I am sad to say, but I have to admit right now that I cannot support this law in any way. For the simple reason that it is not the law of the ERR, but the ERR is essentially like a lame horse. He's so lame that he can't be corrected in this way. The problem with the ERR is that it offers unhealthy competition for commercial channels, it makes inappropriate advertising, it is politically biased. It is not an expert problem here, but the institute itself is currently entirely wrong. If you could bring us here a law that will eliminate the ERR in this form, it's very good. The ERR, in its current form, would need nothing more than one room and two employees. That's why I'm asking you if you can sense or feel it so that the correction you want to do can make something better at the ERR.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U48	Yeah, with my correction, I think there's something we can do for the better. That's one. Secondly, I do not resolutely agree with your above-mentioned text. Thirdly, the representative of your group at the level of the ERR Council will act. In case you think there's something going on, you can pass on that information through your representative.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U50	Good manager! Good waitress! Nice talk, but let's talk about it. How can we ensure that the ERR is not politically biased and sometimes malicious? You can put in four or 40 good people, but if the chairman of the council says it's not up to him to intervene, programme managers, or what they're called, do what they want, it's only up to us to beat up the budget, what's really good about your bill, apart from putting some more?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U51	Peter, I'd love for you to read it before you ask. I didn't mean to add anything. I'm talking about how to change this naming procedure, not the addition I wasn't talking about. That's one. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, yes, I really expected questions to come, not on the substance of the draft, but on this, for example, I do not know what content the ERR is currently offering, or what ethical questions might come from, etc. But these questions are not directly related to this draft. That's why I'm not going along with this discussion you've created.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U52	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U53	Thank you. Good Victoria! Good President! In answer to my first question, you said, Viktoria, that I was speaking against myself, that I saw how this appointment took place in the Riigikogu, and I should be in the same boat with you now. But I've seen the other half of those people who were called there deliver. I don't have any complaints to any of the experts, even if they have a party sign behind their backs, as you put it. You're actually the best example of that. You have the sign of the Party Fatherland behind you, but your worldview is much more normal, even though you're mostly in opposition, but wherever you are, in coalition or opposition, and that's why I appreciate you. I don't think I have any problem with anyone on the ERR board, including an EKRE representative or some specialist who, it seems, has a little conservative outlook. That's what makes life interesting, that we're different. Isn't that right, Victoria?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U54	First of all, I have a patriotic worldview. Secondly, when I said that you were arguing against yourself, I recalled a situation that was a year and a half ago, which I was talking about in part when I answered Imre's question. Of course, even if politicians appoint experts and influence this process right from the start, it may happen that completely good expert members will come to the Council. Maybe, but maybe not. A situation could happen where the share of a particular party at the level of the Council is really beginning to increase. If you're in power, maybe you'll like it. But thinking about society's questions, society's expectations, it doesn't have to be like this. The ERR should primarily address society, not politicians.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U55	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U56	Thank you, good manager. Good Victoria! I will never oppose any change in the system if it brings about a qualitative change and really improves the system. There's probably a way to fix this system. But you haven't been able to convince me that these changes you've proposed will really take us there. You have not given any concrete examples in this Chamber of what experts there have been problems with. It's been asked many times. Perhaps, though, you can give some concrete examples of what kind of person this has been a problem for. Let's put the Fatherland aside for a second, we're talking about party X. We don't have any laws that prohibit participation in a party somewhere. What if, after his appointment, this member enters party X, which is not at all the party where he was so-called speculated, who influenced him to support their views? We can't deny it, we can't rule it out. What's wrong with a person's weather view?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U57	I'll try to explain it again. The world view as such is not a problem. The problem is the procedure that we ourselves impose here. There are certain shortcomings in this procedure and they could be corrected. Our will could be that we really, seeing that there are some problematic points, will correct them. Why I don't name names makes sense. I did not want to rely on the fact that there is a particular person or concrete people or specific political parties, which means that we have to fix it. I see, just as the National Audit Office has published, that this system, the appointment procedure, is not transparent and that is why it needs correction. Well, I'm just pointing out a way to make it better. It seems to me that we could actually think further, think with me, and make this system better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U58	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U59	Thank you very much. You did, Viktoria, hit me with your fingers. You said go talk to your representative in the Council. But our representative has spoken about these issues. By the way, a good and very well-known expert such as Rein Lang on a radio that I do not mention, and in a show that I do not mention, the same has been saying for years about the major problems of the ERR concerning the supply of unhealthy competition, abnormal advertising and so on. Do you see that this is a problem, and how your proposals can solve this many years of problem in the ERR?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U60	Paul, I answered that question. You're gonna ask that question twice. I answered it the first time exactly as I'm answering it now. I am not talking about whether the ERR is politically biased or not. I'm talking about the procedure, what we call experts there, being politically biased, and it needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U61	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U62	Good manager! Good waitress! I've read your extraordinarily sweet bill many times. I ask you again, if you rename or put several people in any way, how it changes the political bias of the ERR and reduces it. There is no point in dealing with some kind of bureaucratic change of seats and putting people in it if we do not take the objective into account. Really, how does this change the political bias of the ERR, reducing it? Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U63	Once again, thank you for your question. This draft amends the regulation on the appointment of recognised experts in the field of activity of the ERR to the Council. The aim of the amendment is to ensure greater independence from the political procedure for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of recognised experts in the field of activity of the ERR. I am talking about the procedure and how to make it politically independent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U64	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Your draft outlines four specific institutions that should send their representatives to the ERR Council. These are the Council of Rectors, the Association of Journalists, the Confederation of Employers and the Bar Association. I would like to ask what exactly these four specific organisations have been selected. Why are there no other dignified associations instead, such as the Estonian Nature Conservation Society, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Family of the Foundation and the Protection of Tradition, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U66	What was I primarily based on? According to the current law, the Committee on Culture will announce a competition before we appoint another expert. Usually when the competition is announced, the management of the ERR will be asked, for example, what experts they need first and foremost, where the greatest need is. Plus, for quite several years, as a member of the ERR Council, I saw which areas really need to be included. That's where the list came from. Once again, the Council of Rectors has an overview of the best experts in journalism and media, as the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn have the strongest academic competence centres in their respective fields, the Association of Journalists has a broad view of the media landscape that works on a daily basis, the Confederation of Employers has an overview of the renowned experts in the field of economics and the bar Association has the legal expertise that is as necessary as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U67	Jürgen Ligi, do you have a procedure or would you like to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U68	I'm sorry, I had a technical glitch here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U69	Got it. Then the word will be Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Everyone knows that the model and model of national broadcasting have been BBC as the flagship of public service broadcasting in the world. How much of this have you taken on board with your proposals, is there any connection to BBC regulations and principles or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U71	This is an excellent question, but I must admit that I was primarily based on the circumstances in our country and on what our analyses are, the local reports and the needs of the ERR management, as well as the media coverage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U72	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm looking at the general picture. Is it possible in Estonia that no one is a friend and no one likes them? So, how do you solve things in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U74	I'm not talking about whether you have friends or not. It's good to have friends. It is good that we all think about the things of society together, regardless of the world view we have or who is our friend. I am talking, in particular, about not having such a situation where politicians, in particular, appoint representatives of their political groups to the Council and after that, a number of other experts are calling there for unclear reasons. It raises issues that are clearly reflected in both the media and society at large. These concusors or participants also have exactly the same questions as to why a particular person was elected and, for example, despite a very proud CV, you were not chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U75	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U76	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Victoria! I briefly touched on the same issue in the Commission and asked it, but I am going to ask over here in the big Chamber. If one of the objectives of this draft is, or is the aim, in fact, as you say, to depoliticise the National Broadcasting Council, then when we look at who has been proposed here, right, these institutions, I also say that, in fact, we are politicising these institutions rather than depolitising the Council. How can this be avoided? Is it even possible to avoid this at all and, if not, what is the point of changing the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U77	It is good that you asked the question because I remembered that you and I had a very important discussion in the Committee on Culture in the context of the National Opera Act. Indeed, when I looked at what these alternatives are, after all, not going to invent a bicycle, you start looking at where there is an analogy, in this case I found an analogy in the National Opera Act, where independent experts are also [foreseen]. Let us see § 6, which lists both political representatives and, in this case, four experts. Yes, there are other representatives there, you nod for me, but there are also those institutions that offer, for their part, the experts that the Council needs. But when it comes to your question of how to make it politically independent, all of this ultimately depends on us, our will and our political understanding of how to ensure that the ERR feels well and can behave as a public space can behave. It's up to us. Since this competition has raised questions not only within me, as I have repeatedly said, but above all, the National Audit Office has assessed it, I think we could deal with better solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U78	Helle-Moonika Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U79	Thank you. You just said that one of the goals of your bill is to get the E.R. to feel good. Doesn't the ERR feel good right now? What is the basis for this opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U80	It is always a very interesting nuance to such a political debate: no matter what you say, you can take the floor and ask again and ask again whether the ERR is feeling well or not feeling well. I just want us to have a public independent space. This current situation, precisely on the political side, raises questions. Once again, just in case, I will read out where I have it here, one moment, which was said five years ago in the report entitled 'Management and Financing of Estonian National Broadcasting'. It states that the law should be amended in order to ensure the balance of the Council. The audit indicates that the election of the members of the Governing Council has not always taken place in such a way as to enable the public to understand the considerations of the appointment of specific candidates to the Council. That's what basically made me act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U81	Good Viktoria, no more questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U82	I thank you for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U83	Now the Committee on Culture by Heidy Purga. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U84	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act initiated by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits and its preparation for the first reading at its meeting on Monday, 20 September, including. The meeting was chaired by Aadu Black. Helle-Moonika Helme, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin attended the meeting. Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, Karin Ligi, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Culture, and Siim Rohtla, Audiovisual Adviser to the Department of Arts were also invited. Liisa Johanna Lukk, adviser to the Public Relations Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, also participated. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, the initiator of the draft, first introduced her draft, which changes the organisation of the appointment of recognised experts to the National Broadcasting Council. It will perhaps not be unraveled here because the debate has lasted an hour in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, in the Chamber of the House. Thus, people and members of the Riigikogu are believed to have quite a detailed overview of this draft and the purpose of this draft and the questions raised have also been answered. Ms Ladynskaya-Kubits introduced her draft and then spoke to Anneli Ott, who said that the government had discussed the draft on 10 July and added that the need to amend this law was topical, the subject was rightly addressed and all the problems raised by the initiator were relevant. However, the government found the solution proposed in the draft to be incomplete. The inclusion of additional organisations is also a forum for discussion. The Minister of Culture added that in the future, there must be a better digital sector in the law, and the issue of accessibility will be raised more and more. A little improvement of the law will not solve the situation, and every correction will have to go through the prescribed process. The Minister added that the Estonian Media Association, for example, has lodged a complaint with the European Commission regarding the financing of national broadcasting. The Ministry of Culture has also presented its proposals during the process. In the light of this complaint, there may also be a need to amend the law. The conclusion of the Minister of Culture was therefore that the Government of the Republic does not support the draft. Ms Ladynskaja-Kubits stated that she did not receive a substantive answer from the Minister to the question why the Minister did not, however, support the draft. A private media complaint does not concern the draft. Anneli Ott responded to Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits' complaint that the decision of the Government of the Republic was not to support the draft. The proposals put forward are appropriate, but the Ministry and the Government consider that further discussion of the draft is needed. The Minister added that, on the basis of a complaint to the European Commission, the amendment of the law is also expected to be dealt with and then the two issues can be combined. Marko Šorin asked why amendments to the draft are needed right now and whether the draft would solve the whole problem. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits said that the coalition has the opportunity to agree on the number and distribution of seats on different councils. If an additional filter is created, in this case the authorities proposed in the draft, it is less likely that a party-marked expert will enter the Council. Eduard Odines then took the floor, who stated that the list in the draft reduces the risk of politicisation, but does not rule it out. Odines asked the Minister what prevented discussions with stakeholders during the procedure on the draft. The Minister of Culture replied that the problem of the draft was important, but that the draft needed further substantive work, taking into account developments in the field. Helle-Moonika Helme said that the aims of the national opera and national broadcasting are clearly different. The aim of the National Opera is narrowly cultural, but national broadcasting is in a positive sense a state propaganda channel and political supervision and governance are somewhat more understandable. This was then the case for a similar functioning of the Soviets or similar electoral mechanisms. The question of values was also discussed. For example, Margit Sutrop said that the National Broadcasting Council certainly needs experts also because of the growing value conflicts in society. When all political parties are represented in the Council, conflicts are also on the table on a daily basis. According to Sutrop, it is expected that the appointment of a person to the National Broadcasting Board will take into account the ability of a person to maintain a balanced line. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits said that values problems are either on the board or on the board of the council. In addition, there is a social council and ethical advisor provided by law to take care of values and ethical problems. For these topics, platforms have been created and they work. Then Aadu Black took the floor, who explained what made the middle group tend rather towards non-supporting the draft, saying that, knowing the real circumstances, more amendments were needed and on a number of issues. This has also been confirmed by the national broadcasting itself. The bill only solves one detail, but a wide panorama has to be taken to make the whole system move more smoothly. Helle-Moonika Helme also said that the solution presented in the draft does not lead to a reduction in politicisation, on the contrary, it politicises more than ever the institutions mentioned in the draft. I asked the rapporteur or performer whether there were substantive complaints from experts elected to the Council under the current procedure and what a substantive difference could be made in changing the appointment procedure to the quality of the work of the experts. On top of that, Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits replied that political independence is very needed, it is simply humiliating when an expert is politically tagged in the media. In addition, it is sad that a qualified person known in society is not chosen because of political agreements. Jaak White said that he was not against the draft, but the weakness of the draft was, in his view, just set out in the four institutions, which in turn raises infinite questions. White gave an example of the appointment of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, where there is a much more balanced solution than the solution of the institutions set out in the draft. The meeting summarised Aadu Black by saying that any initiative is important, but the rules of procedure are also important, and the plenary does not discuss controversial small details, so that this work must be done first. He proposed the appointment of Heidy Purga as the representative of the lead committee. In addition, Black proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda first on 28 September and on the basis of the Government's proposal to reject the draft at first reading. With regard to the author's health problems, this draft has reached this plenary Chamber today. In any case, the decision to send the draft to the large hall was consensual. It was proposed to reject the draft. Five members voted in favour: Aadu Black, Heidy Purga, Margit Sutrop, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines and Üllar Saaremäe voted against. There were two abstentions, those were Helle-Moonika Helme and Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U85	Good Heidy Purga, no questions from colleagues. Thank you! Let's open the negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin wants the floor first. Please! We must remind you that we have a first reading, which means that we have speeches on behalf of the political groups. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, So let's talk about political independence. The older people who are in this hall will surely remember a poet like Krylov, the ready-to-writer. He's got a spell called "Quartet." This is how it ends. I don't know how rhymed it sounds in Estonian, but the free translation is that you, friends, no matter how you sit down, aren't good enough for a mosquito anyway. And that's what I think it is right now. I would like to give you a few examples of the kind of life we live, always. This is not so that this situation has changed in the last five or ten years. In 1999, after the March elections, two journalists, very well-known men in Estonia, then just the stars, they sat at my house for two hours, made a long show on this topic. One Saturday I'm waiting, no, another Saturday isn't, third Saturday isn't. Then I took the courage, I called. They said, you know, the editor said that what you were talking about wasn't what you could show our viewer. It was a private channel, it wasn't an ERR. But another story, connected to the ERR. A colleague of ours, he once sat in this room, made a little punk in Narva, and an ERR journalist asked me to take the floor on this subject. I told him it was a completely pointless thing to do, what I'm saying, no one ever sets on the air anyway. "No, I have my own show, I can do it. " Me-Me-Me! All right. I lost an hour and a half of my time, talked, talked. One Wednesday, the other Wednesday, I'm sitting like a fool and waiting for this interview to come. After Wednesday 3rd, I called him, said, well, what about independence? He said that the editor, listening to this material, asked if the apartment credit had already been paid out, that you see, the situation is actually so difficult that you could lose your salary, etc. That's the situation we live in. And what's worse is that our press lives in it. Is he politically biased or not? In 2006, I ran tests, took Delfi's materials. I took the dolphin not because there was some kind of love or hatred for them, just then anyway they reflected the entire Estonian media. Do you remember when Ilves was elected president? The competitor was Knight. I've got all these materials taken together. The knight was written over a hundred negatives in one month. In one month! Two things came out of Ilves. Two and over a hundred. This is a summary of the entire Estonian media, as it looked. So, what's the offer now? We're just gonna put people in some kind of organization, and I have to believe that they're not politically biased. Including the Estonian Journalists' Association. Is there one person in this hall who believes that? How can a journalist be one who doesn't have any political views of his own? Well, that's not possible. It is not possible to say for any person that he is such a neutral person. So, of course, this is a matter of revision, although I personally believe that only one measure will help here. If you can't change the process, at least make sure you don't have the pain yet, so you fucking finance it yourself. This will be done with the money you are voting for here, with your sincere and heartfelt support, because you really think there is a need to improve these working conditions. But these complaints about political independence will disappear as financing disappears. Because, as Viktoria herself said, we, those in this Chamber, are influencing this process. This opportunity is for the master, the one who pays. One or the other major Estonian newspaper depends on its owner and very clearly has taken a political direction, works in one direction and everyone else is enemies. That's right. There's nothing to say, because it's private property, and the master himself decides how he uses it. Just so there's no remorse that the ERR is politically unabated, maybe we can cut down on this funding and let them do what they want? At least it is not a shame that they are doing this with public money, speaking from a political point of view here, I am not involved in culture, sport or entertainment. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, this is very much in this Krylov-ready spirit, what is now being offered here. The Estonian Centre Party Group does not support this draft, on the contrary, supports its rejection. In this way, we will not solve any problems associated with the ERR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U87	Now, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Peter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U88	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't have much contact with my colleague Stalnukhin, but I also wanted to talk about "Quartet." I found this: "One Monkey Finger and Donkey, Sikk and Honeyfinger once thought of playing quartet. " Yes, it is playing quartet, and it is. As an ex-acting writer and journalist, I can say that this is the case. When Viktoria spoke of the word being free, yesterday we got rid of the person who has desecrated this expression, you remember, the person with the sweatshirt who came here, just as some sexual minority has [desecrated] a beautiful rainbow. So don't tell me the word is free here. The word yes is free, but if some characters desecrate it, then a lot of time needs to be cleaned up. But I'm talking about it. Really, there are nine beautiful points in the ERR law that you should be doing. God's righteous! This quartet game, which comes into that quartet instead of a donkey, or instead of a monkey, is then the Union of Journalists or the Confederation of Employers, as they say, the delo technician, as was said in the Russian era. But what difference does it make? How does he change the real situation? I'm tracking all kinds of channels, too. The BBC is much smarter than our ERR. Look at "Actual Camera," the smiling spot on the news flagship. I used to look closely, but now I look less often or look backwards. How adequately does he describe Estonian society and the world? That's what they say in our country, a bullet to the head. Several of their so-called journalists have not been taken seriously for me long ago. I'm not going to name names here. So it is actually a question of frame politics and journalists who are not going to talk about any private media right now, we are talking about the ERR sitting there and working day after day. Yes, there is a council, a respected council, all those monkeys and donkeys and monkeys that the classic Krylov describes. All the nice people. But when you talk to the Chairman of the Board of the ERR, which has often happened, or to the heads of the ERR, they say that our hands are short, we cannot hinder creative independence and sovereignty, the editorials know what they are doing. I'm saying there have been stories and there have been times. There is no point in reminding us here what it is about. Therefore, although the Council should guard, govern and comply with the law of the ERR, it is all very beautiful, all these nine points, it will not read out what is to be observed, the Estonian language and nature and democracy and everything, it is all beautiful, but everything will actually come back to those who are there, and then the face will go wrong. It's been a long time, and the face of the E.R.R. I'm thinking right now. I've also been doing sharp political debates at the ERR, leading them. At some point, I even got fired from it because I discredited the power of the state in this regard and just filled what foreign trainers had taught me that a journalist must be sharp, like us, politicians should be beaten, whether on the left or on the right, but must not be malicious. That's the point. There must be an equal approach, adequacy, good information and sharpness, but it must not be malicious and stupid either. But there's a lot of that in the ERR, including the ERR. What am I talking about? An old colleague of Väino Koorberg has well said that the press must be tilted...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U89	Mr. Ernits, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U90	Yeah, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U91	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U92	...but he must be leaned towards finding the truth. I repeat, towards finding the truth. I agree with that. But not that way, as it is now. What else can I say? There's nothing more to say. It is said that this Krylovian valm is an excellent feature of the draft that we are dealing with here. I can still quote this Krylov. It ends with: "To be a musician, need to know and need ears more tender than given to you," so the nightingale answers them. "But you guys, sit down either way, you can't get any other gamblers." " Thank you! And I also say that our group supports: nicely in the trash can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U93	Eduard Odines, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to be brief, and I won't quote. It is sad that instead of processing this bill, we are dealing with how good or bad the Estonian press is. Unfortunately, this is not the subject of the draft initiated by Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits. It's not Viktoria who's in substitution, it's us who's in it. This topic and this concern, the problem with which Ambassador Ladõnskaya-Kubits came before us, is actually a problem and a challenge for both national broadcasting and the media landscape of Estonia as a whole. The existence of this problem is also recognised by the Government of the Republic, the National Audit Office acknowledges, the ERR itself, the Minister of Culture has repeatedly admitted, the Ministry of Culture acknowledges. Everyone says that this is a problem that needs to be addressed. And now there's a colleague and he's offering a solution, himself saying that maybe it's not ideal, but it's good to start a dialogue, start a debate, it's the same thing the Minister of Culture asked for, he asked himself, judging by the government's papers, but we say go away, we don't want to discuss it. Let's discuss whether Krylov was right. Krylov was certainly right, but we do not have the right to judge the Estonian press here, instead of trying to solve the problems that the media landscape has. The Social Democratic Party Group acknowledges that this bill may have shortcomings. This list of organisations may not be what it should be. But we understand that the initiator of the bill could not come here with three points instead of these points, had to write something there, and it is his vision that could be part of the council. However, we would like to discuss this issue further, discuss it in the Riigikogu, discuss it in the Committee on Culture, discuss it in the large hall and help the initiator of the draft to move forward with this problem towards a solution, and towards the best solution. That is why the Social Democrats do not support the rejection of the draft and call on all colleagues in this Chamber to support the passing of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U95	The political groups have no more requests to speak, so I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 393 at first reading, and we need to vote it through. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U96	64 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 12 against, one abstention. The proposal was supported and bill 393 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U97	Okay. Our second item is "Sidusa Estonia Development Plan 2030." The debate on this point will take place in accordance with such procedures. May I have your attention, please? First, Minister of Culture Anneli Ott gets the opportunity to introduce it for up to 20 minutes, then member of the Committee on Culture Signe Kivi for up to 20 minutes. The procedure is that each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs, and then we will open negotiations. During the negotiations, all members of the Riigikogu and, of course, members of the committees can take the floor. At the end of the discussion, we will not take a decision in the Chamber of Riigikogu. The Board of the Riigikogu has received a proposal from the Committee on Culture so that we can extend the session until 14 o'clock. Since we are here together nicely, maybe we can vote it through right now, then we know how we are going to deal with this point. So I'm gonna shoot the hall call for a minute, we're gonna call people back, and then we're gonna get this vote done. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I remind you that I have invited you to return to the Chamber in order to vote through the proposal of the Committee on Culture to extend the session until 14 p.m. if necessary, so that we can work together on a coherent development plan for Estonia. So who supports the Committee on Culture's proposal to extend the session, but no longer than 14 p.m.? Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U98	The proposal was supported by 47 members of the Riigikogu and was not opposed or impartial. Maybe we'll work until 2:00 a.m. to the end of this item. Okay. Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests, listeners! I will present you an overview of the "Sodusa Estonia Development Plan 2021 This strategy gives us the aim and vision of what we want to see Estonian society in ten years' time. The Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are jointly responsible for the development plan as equal partners. Local authorities and NGOs and stakeholders were also involved in the preparation for several years. So far, the state did not have a comprehensive strategy paper to deal with the tasks related to the development plan as a whole. In the area of integration policy, the development plan "Integrating Estonia 2020" was in force until 2020. The policy on new immigrants' adaptation and population operations was guided up to 2020 through the "Inside Security Development Plan 2015-2020." The development of civil society was guided by the "Civil Society Development Plan 2015 In this development plan, a common section has been found between these topics and the development plan is of course linked to the achievement of the general objective of "Estonia 2030." Good ambassadors! We can see that Estonia of the future is inclusive, human-centred, respectful of diversity, supportive of Estonia's cultural space and democratic values, and enhancing the common role and sense of the Estonian people. In order to achieve these values, a role must be played by the state level, municipalities, private sector or interest groups as a whole. Although the "Integrating Estonia 2020 Final Report confirms that the integration of society has been a consistent and positive process, the understanding of society is more common and the state identity of people of different nationalities is strong, we must recognise that there will be a lot of work to be done in this area in the coming years. We are open in a world where people's migration is natural, including into and out of Estonia. Although people-to-people contacts have increased, as well as confidence in the Estonian media and, in general, Estonian language skills, language-based segregation and the resulting inequality are still high. Inequality and lack of common sense can lead to a polarisation of society and increase the likelihood of value conflicts between people from different language and cultural backgrounds. In order to reach the objectives, adaptation and integration policies will support municipalities that will have the opportunity and the capacity to contribute more to integration in the coming years. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to involve the whole of civil society more broadly. We need to develop a common, understandable and reliable communication space where every person in Estonia receives important information from the state. A digital revolution is inevitable, as is any other area. We need to encourage more people-to-people contacts to support a sense of cohesion. We must work to ensure that people have the opportunity to improve their skills in the Estonian language. In this way, we are more likely to reach a more coherent and stable society. This is the kind of Estonia where people from different language and cultural backgrounds carry the Estonian identity, participate actively in society, share democratic values and a common cultural, information and social space, and have created equal opportunities for successful independent living and well-being. How do we achieve this? The key issue is civil society, the impact of which we must increase, we must support the development of NGOs. Civil society is one of the pillars of a coherent and inclusive society. It's a pledge on the sustainability and security of the country. In order to maintain and develop democratic regimes, public authorities must listen to and cooperate with citizens. Moreover, there is a need to start thinking and acting together. There are almost 24000 non-profit organisations in Estonia and 49% of people have participated in volunteering. Among older people, young people and people with different mother tongues, the desire to volunteer is much greater than their actual participation so far. It is worth starting with just involving young people in social entrepreneurship, for example. They can have very different events and initiatives, because it is important that we ensure that we have a follow-up to the leaders of civil society. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In our municipalities, communities are not systematically and daily. This claim is confirmed by statistics. Only 14% of people consider it important to allow the population to participate in matters of state and to defend freedom of expression. This is undoubtedly too little, which is why we want to implement a programme for the development of co-creation for local authorities and communities. On the basis of this results, we are developing a model of community-building that can easily be implemented in every municipality. The problem is that the share of permanent donors in Estonian society is only 12%. At the same time, 90% of people aged 18 to 60 would be prepared to donate money. Although the volume of donations is increasing from year to year, we need to find a way to encourage donation even more. For example, we could provide support for NGOs collecting donations, advise them on how to collect donations more effectively, and use the funds collected from donations in a transparent way. To this end, there is a network of donors, which now includes over 100 of the largest donors. Of course, it would also be important to create an incentive-friendly tax environment. We need to look further. The real size of Estonia extends beyond our borders. I am thinking of promoting and maintaining Estonian identity abroad. This is one of the important tasks of the next ten years. Mainly as a result of three emigration waves, the Estonian external community is large and scattered. There are up to 200,000 people living abroad with Estonian roots, which accounts for almost 15% of all Estonians. Of course, the number of people returning to Estonia has also increased in recent years, but it is still crucial to keep our people in touch with Estonia. Estonians living abroad, regardless of their geographical location, are part of a coherent Estonian society. They are, at the same time, the keepers and carriers of Estonian affairs as well as Estonian ambassadors in the world. In order not to lose contact with Estonia, it is necessary to continue to communicate with the Estonian community living abroad and to involve Estonians systematically. In the coming years, it will therefore be important to develop a common information field, to maintain and promote Estonian culture abroad, as well as to expand and diversify the opportunities for studying the Estonian language abroad and to preserve mental and material cultural heritage in communities. It is important that people living abroad maintain their Estonian identity, feel the support of our country and be able to participate in the life of Estonian society if possible. Only then can they help our country to introduce and consolidate its good reputation, thereby contributing to the Estonian economy and security. In all of this, we must take major steps in the coming years to make it easier for Estonians to return to their homeland. For a smooth return and to adapt to Estonia's life, we ensure return support services, bring together knowledge of returnees and raise awareness of society, involve more local authorities and improve their capacity to support returnees. The area of global Estonianism is horizontal, and good cooperation with other public authorities and the third sector is a prerequisite for its effective functioning. Strong partnerships with global Estonian communities and their organisations are crucial. We want to make this cooperation even more systematic and efficient. This is one of the priorities of a coherent Estonian development plan. The digital revolution is also the theme of this development plan. The development plan sets objectives for smart population calculation. This includes both population operations and the population register. One could say that the heart of Estonia's e-governance is smart population accounting, including high-quality population data and a well-functioning population register. It supports a coherent society, but it certainly also supports all other areas of state life. For example, the accuracy of the population register data and the reliability of the register depend on the continuity of activity of the local government and the state, as well as the services and assistance provided by the state. The participation of the population register is reflected in the fact that about 120 million searches are made annually by institutions and companies into the population register, and 230 information systems use the population register data in their daily work. There are a number of concerns here, too, which are waiting to be resolved. For example, the population register software has become obsolete and does not allow the creation and development of modern services. Also, our current data collection procedures do not guarantee the data quality that the users expect. We want to keep pace with technological developments, take into account the changing needs and habits of people and make it easier for everyone to do things. We want to introduce more reliable software that takes into account the needs of everyday life. Let's review and redesign data collection processes if necessary, which means reducing duplication, making the data collection clearer. The most significant change for the citizen is probably the plan to create more event services. This means that a person gets things done with a country in the event of his or her own life, in a single way, rather automatically. For example, when submitting your marriage application, you can apply for new identity documents or when using the child's birth e-service, birth can be registered immediately. Good ambassadors! I would like to thank all the participants who have contributed to the development plan. Among them has been the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as the Committee on Population Problems. This has been a major work and clearly a cross-cutting and cross-cutting joint creation. We have made progress in this complex, multifaceted area, which cannot be called into question. This is confirmed by years of integration monitoring carried out by scientists. I believe that we can move forward smoothly from here in the interests of a sustainable nation state where it would be good for all of us to live. I thank you for listening, and I am ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U100	And there are. Eduard Odines is starting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In recent months, we have had passions about the subject of education in Estonian or the subject of learning the Estonian language in this hall. In his first speech to the Riigikogu, even the President who took office yesterday paid quite a lot of attention to this. In the development plan you present, you do not even talk about the Estonian-language school; you talk about the school that is studying together. I was happy to read it, a very socialist idea. But perhaps you could explain to us what this school of co-learning is in your sense, which is slightly different from the coalition agreement of the current government, which talks about the educational model in Estonian. You have chosen a co-educating school as the cornerstone of this issue in a coherent social development plan. Please explain to the colleagues of the Riigikogu and also to me what you think is a school that is studying together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U102	Thank you. Certainly within this development plan, we are not able to solve all the issues related to Estonian language learning, and this is not the subject of this development plan either. However, the entire process of education is carried out by the Ministry of Education and Research and it is also a matter of educational strategy; it is not a question of a directly coherent Estonian development plan. Our aim is to ensure that these contacts are as close as possible to and between different nationalities. This development plan outlines a variety of programmes, including recreational programmes, which can be used to make the language space available to children. That is what we support. But this development plan doesn't deal directly with the school program. Rather, our idea, or our aim, is that through activities of interest, programmes in the third sector, education of interest, children can receive this language practice, this language environment, so that they can practice speaking in Estonian to support the learning of the language in school.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U103	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U104	Thank you very much. Good minister! I was very happy to hear it on the one hand. There were some nuances here that you presented and pointed out, which were pretty good and will certainly pay attention to people. But saddened by the fact that this development plan is essentially like building a road to Räpina through Chicago, Cairo and underground and with orchestras and horns. Some terrible thing. When we visited the NO99 Grand Assembly in 2010, it seemed to me that it was like a political joke. But if I look now that we have made a ten-year development plan, a coherent development plan for Estonia, aimed at making society more coherent, inclusive society, it is full of slogans and such an insane development plan, my first question is: but what does it all cost? How many more officials will we create now, what will it cost us, and how many officials will come to the ministry, or I don't know?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U105	Thank you. I can tell you some numbers, what it's gonna cost. But if you say now that it is somehow very scattered, as I pointed out in my speech, we have the Ministry of the Interior, we have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have the Ministry of Culture, we have three ministries responsible for implementing this development plan. So it is true that a lot of aspects and topics have been introduced into this development plan. This is, in fact, an overall development plan across a wide range of areas, because integration, the creation of a sense of national identity in people can be achieved through a wide range of actions and activities. It can't be a very narrow view. In a very broad way, the total volume of this development plan is planned to be 194 million, but it has been divided between different ministries, including the Ministry of Education and Research, which is not directly implementing this development plan. But, for example, with regard to the sub-objectives, I can tell you that there are 56 million in the budget for Estonia supporting adaptation and integration from 2021 to 2030, 2 million in the global Estonian economy, 32 million in the topic of communities and 52 million in the smart population calculation. These are the numbers that have been set out and the various objectives that will be pursued with these amounts. In addition... In fact, I'm not going to read it, I can send it to you in writing, I have exactly one page here of these institutions, NGOs, organisations that were all involved in the preparation of this development plan. So it's been very broad-based. I think that there are not many such development plans where such broad-based involvement is necessary to ensure that the development plan is meaningful and takes into account the objectives and needs of all parties involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U106	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U107	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, A really necessary development plan in the sense that there is a need for a common view, a comprehensive view of Estonian society, both here and outside the borders. However, the interests of all groups of people and their involvement must be taken into account for this holistic view. We're talking about involvement here. One group is people with special needs, including people with disabilities, 11 to 12% in society, plus older people with age-related concerns. How does accessibility relate to this development plan? That's one thing. That's another thing. From a business point of view, I see that we support the creation and operation of social enterprises, which are very important. But let's agree on the meaning of social enterprises, that meaning has been sought for as long as I have been in the Riigikogu. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Is there any concrete action going in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U108	Special needs will certainly be dealt with in Estonia, I think, in the next few years, a little more than in the past. I told you about the study that was done last night on the remote. Really, it is, I think, a very good basic document. Since it is also one of the principles inherent in the implementation of the cultural development plan, it is certainly linked to all the other activities that are planned in this area. We have a lot of development plans, and it is the welfare development plan that is more precisely coordinating that people have accessibility. But one can certainly mention the Integration Foundation, which organises Estonian language learning through the Estonian language houses. You can see how it takes very careful account of the different language levels and needs in order to provide language learning to interested people. So I am positive in this respect, I believe that the next few years will bring very good developments here. These objectives, which have been set, will certainly also take into account the widest possible availability of the services offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U109	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U110	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. It's interesting to look at indexes, but let me ask you a question. It has been prepared here for a long time, but it has been said that the indicators for the Estonians living abroad will be available this year. The year is over. How far are these meters, and why has it taken so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U111	With all the metrics, you have to collect the original data. The current objective has been that this data will meet by the end of this year. So hopefully, at the beginning of next year, this major study, which is currently under way, has produced results. I think pretty soon I could answer you that they exist, but at the moment they're really still on layoffs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U112	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In 2002, the Riigikogu adopted the concept of the development of Estonian civil society. In principle, today's development plan, which we are discussing here, also addresses the development of civil society, is part of it. To be honest, by looking at the development plan, I did not find any reference to this particular concept. How do you make sense of the connection between these two documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U114	Thank you. The issue of civil society is really very thorough, I think, reflected in this development plan. It's the Home Office block, the Home Office is carrying it. Involvement of civil society in general not only directly in the objectives of this development plan, but generally in the activities of society is a overlapping objective. In the same way, this development plan serves the purpose that the more Estonian people are involved with civil society, the more they feel involved in the functioning of society and the more they feel connected to the state. As I pointed out in the speech, the desire of people to be involved, to be active as volunteers in various activities is universal; it is not directly linked to the activities of this development plan alone. These activities of the development plan, which are here, are certainly also linked to the development of civil society in general. The topic of coherent Estonia or integration is one aspect of the development of civil society, but it is certainly not the only block to deal with, but it is one of the narrowest visions of the wider development of civil society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U115	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U116	Dear Minister, I have a philosophical question. Since this development plan was completed on a larger scale before you came, I'm still trying to figure out what your thinking world is. They say there are several names for a good child. Those whom we try to integrate or with whom we try to organise the integration process, after all, we have called them Estonian Russians in very different ways, for example, other languages, they were also compatriots, Estonians were also Estonians, Estonians were also called Estonians. What is the idea of nationalism that is open to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U117	I think that, first of all, we should not be stuck here, that we are only talking about the Russian-speaking community, but certainly we are talking much more broadly. For example, we have a separate chapter on Roma in this development plan. As a South Easter, I say that Valgas, for example, is a group of people to whom this development plan must certainly pay attention. So I will not be stuck in the Russian-speaking community, but in the framework of this development plan we will rather have to address a much broader objective. We live in a very open society, not all people come here for a long time, but also those who come to study, to work for a moment, for example, for two years. These people could also have a connection with Estonia to make them feel good about themselves in this community or in this country. This is actually the image of Estonia outside, and it also gives security to everyone else. So my vision is that within this development plan, we are really dealing with people who are interested in Estonia, but also those who live here, on a uniform basis, so that they can participate as much as possible in the community. It's the same community, third sector work, work with local governments. On the side of municipalities may be one of the largest unused resources for the entire implementation of this development plan. If we have such national programmes and institutions that implement the objectives of the development plan, we can see from the development plan that a very large part of them are specifically aimed at involving local authorities, training, increasing their competence, so that it is all much more general than it is today. I think it is also important that our registers get a new level in the next period, so that people really feel that it is easy to do business, so that they do not get stuck anywhere. In fact, it has a great impact on the way a person interacts with society. The more obstacles there are, the more distance or feeling of being alien. So, in summary, I say that this is a very large and interconnected process, where, as I said in my speech, it is certainly not only national level, but also local government level, NGOs. Together, we can pursue these goals so that those to whom these activities are directed can feel part of society, so that this sense of identity, a sense of state identity grows and at the same time their cultural background is maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U118	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U119	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! On page 21 of the development plan, we look at cohesion and everything that is here. And then we will ensure that initiatives at local level are open. And I read that the third thing is that it has been said in advance that we support the participation of people from different language and cultural backgrounds in various civil society organisations, that we support the active involvement of cultural societies of ethnic minorities in the work of national umbrella organisations and representative organisations in the Estonian language. Does this refer to ethnic minorities or ethnic minorities? We know that everything in English is actually a sin, but we have good matches in Estonian. Well, there's no point in taking one to one like this, because, oh, madness, if anyone else is going to translate with Google, for example, "Estonians" will be translated there as "for shoot." What's your position? Does this refer to minorities or ethnic minorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U120	Our aim is to support people of other nationalities in civil society so that they are active and participate as much as possible in different organisations and contribute to the activities. I didn't answer you before, I was wondering what it was. This was the social entrepreneurship that was still on the issue. It's exactly the same. Social entrepreneurship, too, is certainly one of the issues. Civil society, I think this is a social entrepreneurship issue for the last ten years. It's still a stranger, but actually, he's definitely an extra incentive to volunteer for the various activities of society. Supporting social entrepreneurship will certainly motivate even more, it will be more effective and will link these people to activities more firmly in the long run and will give people a stronger desire and motivation to participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U121	Mr Jaanson, I cannot give you a question, we have agreed that there is one question for each of the rapporteurs, and one question has already been put to that rapporteur. Maybe you can ask the co-rapporteur a question. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U122	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, First of all, I applaud: I like this development plan both visually and structurally. There is no long talk, there are specific objectives and actions. Good change to other development plans. Secondly, I must say that this is probably the most important development plan in Estonia. Now we see that if we do not have this cohesive society, then eventually health will suffer and all other aspects will suffer, really even children's education. I would ask a very simple question on the one hand and a very complicated one on the other. Now, in your own words, tell us how we will come to this vision, this general goal, which is well written, that we have a sustainable nation state and all of us Estonia. What are these stronger paths? Do we support civil society organisations so that they bring people, people get involved, or do we put emphasis on language learning and do so? What are the main lines through which we reach this beautiful general goal? Just in my own words, please, a few more important points, action on what you think this path might look like.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U123	Thank you. For me, certainly, I have already opened it here for a longer time, it is a development of civil society or the involvement of civil society, information. I also pointed out in this speech that the local authorities certainly have room to contribute more. For our part, we have planned various trainings, engagement events so that local authorities can see better ways of involving these people. In the end, however, we do not reach all people at national level. Local authorities have a better chance of doing so and often this should happen through direct contact. It is very personal that people should be invited along. That's where it's starting to develop. One of the moments is definitely spatial planning, how the municipality plans space, constructions, institutions, activities in such a way that people who speak one language do not bubble, so that their trajectories are more diverse and language practice can be improved. Here again, municipalities have a major role to play in thinking about how this segregation can be reduced through planning. Maybe those two points. But I'm sure there's a lot of work to be done here in the field of education. For our part, we offer these opportunities, as I said earlier, through an interest education, through the third sector, in order to create different environments where the Estonian language can be practiced and become part of Estonian culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U124	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, Minister! It was in the last sentence that you mentioned what I wanted to ask you about the coherence with the area of education. Of course, that's what we're talking about in the program, but to pay attention, I'd like to ask. All of this education involves training, that is, teaching teachers who are able to bring these problems well and truthfully into the crowd. It's very important. Have you thought about how to start developing this teacher's footage together with the field of education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U126	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Education and Research also actively participated in the development of this development plan. These problems have been introduced into this development plan or are also linked to this development plan. As I mentioned, we certainly offer the opportunity to learn Estonian through a wide range of programmes, precisely through the Integration Foundation. We have two Estonian-language houses, one in Tallinn, one in Narva, who offer a lot of programs to those interested. But, yes, they are aimed at adults, but certainly, if an adult who is interested in learning the Estonian language has a positive experience, it will pass on to the family and will manifest in the choices that parents make with regard to their children. So I guess that's where we're on the right track. Two years have shown an increasing interest in the service provided by the state. It is also our wish to extend the concept of Estonian-language houses. Indeed, it is offered as a service in a wider way than only in Narva and Tallinn, but there are no more directly physically Estonian-language houses. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, there is also a so-called exchange programme for teachers, where they gain the same experience in other schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U127	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. An excellent development plan until 2030. Nine years left, and the goals, all the values, are well written here. If you were a minister now to evaluate what practical step you think is most important in the next nine years in order to implement these good ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U129	Thank you. I think the most practical thing is to start walking boldly. In cooperation with very many sectors, and in the same way with all of you, this development plan has been carried out. We also introduced this in the political groups last year, so this input has been negotiated jointly. Just now, I have mentioned the concept of Estonian-language houses; this work takes place through the Integration Foundation. However, other cultural organisers will also be involved in order to ensure that those target groups that are considered in this development plan are as much involved as possible in the whole cultural life. Similarly, there is cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. So the most important thing is that, in everyday policy-making, the objectives of this development plan are also there, so that we can achieve the objectives as precisely as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U130	Thank you very much. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the Minister of Culture. We can go to the co-report, which is a presentation by Signe Kivi, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U131	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I will introduce you to the minutes and discussions of the joint sitting of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. The session was held in the Riigikogu conference room on 27 September. The meeting was chaired by Marek Jürgenson, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Marko Šorin, Signe Kivi, from the Committee on Foreign Affairs Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, Indrek Saar, Raivo Tamm, from the Committee on Legal Affairs Sulev Kannimäe, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast. Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, who performed via video bridge, Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior and Eva-Maria Liimets, Minister of Foreign Affairs, were invited. The Deputy Secretary of State for Cultural Diversity Piret Hartman, Advisers of the Department of Cultural Diversity Olga Sõtnik and Kerli Zirk, Head of the Strategic and Innovation Department Reelika Väljaru, Advisers of the Ministry of Culture Katarina Buddrik and Marta-Magdaleen The King, who was also in touch on the video bridge route, Deputy Secretary General Raivo Küüt of the Ministry of Internal Affairs population and civil society, Adviser to the Civil Society Department Marten Lauri, Head of the Department of Population Operations Enel Pungas and Adviser to the Strategy and Development Department Maia Eskla and Adviser to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Keit Spiegel and Special Representative to the Global Estonians Marin Mõttus. In short, from the ministerial presentations, Minister Ott has already introduced it. The Minister of Culture said, as an introduction, that the development plan was drawn up in cooperation with the three ministries, is a follow-up document to a number of development documents and deals with four areas. Let them also be said: adaptation and integration policy, civil society policy, population action policy and diaspora policy. Kristian Jaani gave an overview of civil society and population operations policy under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. Perhaps it should be repeated that, as the Minister of Culture pointed out, one of the problems, for example, is that software has become obsolete and does not support the creation of modern IT solutions. This is a problem that we have heard many times in this Chamber of the Riigikogu when dealing with various problems. Eva-Maria Liimets gave an overview of the diaspora policy under the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs "Global Estonianity," which was also asked many questions. As a problem, the Minister pointed out that if the state does not continue to pursue with sufficient ambition in different fields in the rest of the world, we say that relations with the Estonian community living abroad and the systematic involvement of these people will weaken the link with Estonia. The members of the Riigikogu asked numerous questions about Estonian language learning and the return of Estonian houses, both located in other parts of the world and Estonian language houses, which are located in Estonia, about the functioning, about integration and the activities of Vaba Lava, about the return of Estonians from East Diaspora and Abkhazia, about the openness and citizenship of Estonia, about the participation of e-residency and other native speakers in civil society. There was also an interest in the functioning of the population register and the donation readiness of Estonian people. And before I go more specifically to the discussion and questions, I will present the procedural decisions that took place at the end of the session on the "Sodusa Estonia Development Plan 2030." Aadu Must, chairman of the committee, proposed that Signe Kivi be appointed rapporteur for the development plan. Mr Odines proposed that Eduard Odines be appointed rapporteur for the Commission and also asked that this proposal be put to the vote. Voteed. There were 4 members in favour of the proposal by the chairman of the committee and 1 against. So it was decided that Signe Kivi, who was holding the presentation, would be the rapporteur for the coherent Estonian development plan committee. We also decided that the [decision] on when the draft will be sent to plenary would be taken at the meeting of Thursday 30 September, and today, 12 October, the draft will be before us. Now the questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe started vigorously and pointed out that if there is a desire to integrate and integrate people, there are always many risks. Could the cessation of the retranslation of hostile television channels be one of the options for risk mitigation? Anneli Ott replied that the way in which the television channels were not closed in Estonia was not the case, but that all important information channels would be strengthened and the programme offered by them would be diversified, so that all people would receive the information they needed and the truth for their everyday life, and that other activities in the Estonian cultural space were included in integration, including theatres, libraries, museums, etc. Eduard Odines asked many questions and was interested in the fact that a coherent Estonian development plan should support the objectives set out in both the development plan for education and language, but the development plan for the language area mentions the transition to Estonian-language learning, the development plan for education talks about improving Estonian-language learning, and the coherent Estonian-language development plan promotes the co-existence of people with different mother tongues. What, then, is the government's agreement, whether these three principles will remain valid, or whether they are a single objective? Anneli Ott replied that the Minister for Education and Science had to present to the government the developments and plans of the school system in November, but in the view of the Ministry of Culture and the Minister, language skills are, of course, key skills in integrating people into society. He then came again to the Estonian language houses, which he estimated, as we have heard here today, has done a very good job and the target group has found this service. Margit Sutrop referred to Estonian communities outside Estonia and concerns about families with children. In fact, if children have not received education in Estonian as part of the Estonian education system, the return of their families is difficult enough. Previously, there has been talk about e-state opportunities to complete the school programme through digital opportunities. How about this? The same question is also about the function of Estonian houses all over the world, where language learning does not work on today's level and these houses are not equipped with modern language technology tools. Now Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimets replied that it has been a pleasure to see that Estonia's education system has also become more flexible with regard to returning children. This has been led by families in the External Action Service, diplomats who come back and have a different experience. But it is certainly important to create a system of supporters in Estonia who will help all returnees, both for them and for their children to succeed. The Minister promised that he would also raise this issue in contact with the Ministry of Education and Research. He also agreed that the issue of teaching and teaching modern Estonian in Estonian houses in other countries should be addressed. At the same time, Minister Anneli Ott added that he gave information, which we are still repeating, that nearly 5 000 people were trained in Estonian-language houses in Estonia last year, and this year the plan is to train 3000-4000 people. The main target group of these houses is people who have lived in Estonia for a long time but have not learned enough language, or let's say they have acquired the language. But it is a thrilling tendency that the number of people who want to go is constantly increasing. I dare confirm that I too believe that in the case of Estonian language houses in Estonia, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research should cooperate even more. Urve Tiidus asked about language learning platforms and their harmonisation. Anneli Ott replied that there are actually many online platforms and that there are plans to harmonise language learning platforms so that people who want to learn language should not have to adventure between several platforms. But since language levels are different, platforms also have different levels and, to some extent, this will continue to be the case. In addition, Urve Tiidus added that it would not make sense to create one popular platform and create specific links to different language learning platforms. Piret Hartman now added that in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs, a new language gate is being established. A person enters there, takes a proficiency test, sets a goal and all the different opportunities to learn Estonian are available at the language gate. In addition, it should be possible to register for different activities. Over time, the portal is expected to offer additional opportunities: cultural club, language cafe, recreational education, etc. It is interesting to know that in this context, the state will have a better view of how many people learn and when they will achieve their goal. IT services and people's own digital skills came up again. Eduard Odines once again asked how the population register was linked to a coherent Estonian development plan. Minister of the Interior Jaani replied that if there is a desire to target the data collected and to reach the right people in time, the population register should be the foundation of each development plan. The population register and its operations are public services related to integration, community and external activities. Raivo Küüt added that at the beginning of the development plan the population and population accounts were even stronger, so to speak, but now the population register has remained in the development plan as part of the smart population accounts and that the development plan deals not only with the population register but more broadly with population operations. Eduard Odines said that three different concepts were used in the development plan, he also asked the minister: Estonians living abroad, Estonians and Estonians. But since Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets answered, who is not here today, I will refer. The three target groups identified by the questioner are all relevant in the context of the global Estonian programme. Estonians are carriers of national identity. There are many Estonians living abroad who are not Estonian citizens, but nevertheless they are actively involved in the activities of the Estonian community in their home country and are promoting Estonia in the region. Although they may not have taken Estonian citizenship, they are an important target group for the Estonian state. The Minister added that the national picture of Estonia has changed today. For example, if an Estonian citizen living abroad from Kazakhstan wants to communicate with the Estonian state, then for us he is an equal and important target group like any other Estonian citizen. It is important that consular services are provided to the people of Estonia, and no distinctions are made in this regard. Aadu Must brought a new topic to our discussion and asked how to view the wishes of Estonians in the East Diaspora to come to Estonia to study in a situation where Estonian language learning based on Russian has been completed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs replied that the granting of a visa is indeed complicated for the people of Georgia's occupied area who come from the Estonian villages in Abkhazia. However, the number of Russian-based learners of Estonian is so small that the scholarship programme was decided to be closed. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no competence on this issue and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, an alternative solution needs to be found and politically prioritised. Communication with the Eastern communities is more complicated in the eyes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but that does not mean that they will not be paid attention. Let's keep going. Marko Mihkelson was interested in how the development plan document fixes Estonia's position in other parts of the world and whether the authors consider that Estonia's society is more open to foreign countries or applies certain boundaries. Mihkelson asked whether allowing double citizenship would be important in creating a more coherent global Estonian community and whether the e-residency programme would be reflected in the development plan. Mihkelson referred here to Estonia's conservativeness in the issue of asylum giving and wondered whether the development plan was also intended to better integrate people who had received asylum in Estonia into Estonian society. Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani replied that the Estonian Citizenship Act precludes double citizenship, except in the case of birth citizenship. The Minister confirmed that the discussion on the opening of the full view is to be welcomed, but it is an extremely complex area and that the internal security development plan will also address the issue. Eva-Maria Liimets said that there is a point in the global Estonian programme: to improve and strengthen services for e-resident card holders. Estonia's interest is to include e-residents in Estonia's information space and to strengthen their links with Estonia, because e-residents are so-called Estonian ambassadors. If they have a good experience and a good word about Estonia elsewhere, they are like cultural diplomats for the Estonian state. Heidy Purga referred to the importance of cultural integration and asked about the negotiations between the Narva Vaba Lava and the Ministry of Culture and the new proposals of the Ministry of Culture. The Minister of Culture replied that this was indeed a topical issue. Negotiations to solve the problems have been in place since he took office and since the beginning of 2021 additional financial needs have been presented by Vaba Lava to the Ministry and the Ministry has been looking for ways to make a distinction for one theatre in a situation where the whole cultural sector is generally in a difficult situation. The Minister said that he had spoken several times about Narva Vaba Lava with the local government, who had been proposed to establish a joint foundation. These negotiations will continue. This topic was continued by the speaker here, who gave the opinion that supporting the Free Lava is actually important for integration, let us say, an instrument. Thank you very much. I agree to answer your additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U132	Thank you. There are indeed questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U133	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I did not remember the exact name of the Commissioner, but he still involves some sort of business diplomacy, or let's say, inclusion in a form that may be more of a direction or an opportunity to prepare the Foreign Trade Minister's portfolio. But what I would just ask is that when we are talking about diversity here, the larger communities are still involved under global Estonian rule. This means that smaller, say, numerically smaller societies in European countries have been left outside the table and they feel bad. I would ask you that this is not the case in the debate, but what do you think is important at this point, whether to include all these little, little wickers away or go down this foreign trade route to help and advise companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U134	Thank you very much for this question. I have to admit, I didn't really understand whose name you didn't remember. Secondly, I think it is better to put this question to the Foreign Minister. You yourself took part in this hearing. We did not have such a detailed debate and you yourself did not put forward a problem in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U135	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U136	Good manager and waitress! Did you discuss in the Commission why three counties were excluded from the discussion of this excellent development plan: Võrumaa, Põlvamaa and Valgamaa? Even Hiiumaa, the giants' involvement, was considered necessary. Does this mean that you have discussed that this region is so hopeless that there is no point in discussing it with them at all? Or was there another reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U137	Thank you very much for this question and for this very important tip. Unfortunately, all of us who took part in the meeting and asked a lot of questions did not notice it and did not ask any questions about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U138	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U139	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I understand that the Minister estimates that it will cost about 200 million to implement this plan. However, I did not receive an answer as to whether this would involve the creation of additional jobs and ministries, agencies, such as the Ministry of Social Coherence, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U140	Thank you very much. No, such an opinion that the implementation of a coherent Estonian development plan would also mean additional jobs; we could not hear in the Chamber during the two intensive hours. But I don't want to be the guarantor here that they never do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U141	Thank you very much, Signe Stone, no more questions... Sorry-sorry-sorry, but there's still one left. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U142	Thank you. While this development plan mentions that it is a nation state, everything is very beautiful, we look at the sub-objectives and the lines of action. There are six courses of action here, but the knowledge of the Estonian language and increasing the connection with the cultural space are only the fifth of these six matters. Let us look at other important courses of action. It is pointed out that we support media channels in developing Russian and English content, ensuring access to official high-quality information in English and Russian, etc. So the knowledge of the Estonian language and the creation of a single language and cultural space has in fact been considered to be absolutely irrelevant. So where are we going with this development plan? This does not meet the objectives that are set out here at the beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U143	Thank you very much. I understand it was your opinion. Every member of the Riigikogu has this right. In my report, I tried to highlight all areas of questions, and I have to admit that language learning was the most relevant issue, language learning and integration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U144	Okay. Now it still seems that the questions have run out. Thank you for Signe Stone! We can go to the negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. Five minutes or an extra time of eight minutes. First Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will first of all say, in the form of a remark or a remark, that I am not representing a group here, but myself. What I want to say is, first of all, is that this development plan exists. Thank you to the Ministry for that. The objective of the coherent Estonian development plan is to make Estonia a more coherent and inclusive society in the next decade, especially from the perspective of adaptation, integration and civil society. It shows which policies are important. Coherence begins with involvement. Involvement and cohesion determine whether a society or community is coherent or not. A number of examples can be found here. But one group of people, unfortunately not very mentioned here, is not talking about accessibility, either, are people with special needs. People with special needs are disabled, but they are also elderly people, whose numbers are constantly increasing and whose special needs must be taken into account. I can give examples of this election campaign, even now. In the past, too, quite a few people with disabilities, people with special needs, have told me that they are not going to choose. Why don't they go? They're saying, but what we're going to win, what we're going to do is we're going to be redundant here, we're going to be an empty space here that we're going to pick. It's very sad to hear such a thing all the time. That's why they don't get involved. But they too need to get an answer from the state, even through the same development plan, in which their lives will be better, in which way they will benefit from it. We take the TV media, we take the show agencies, we take the arrival of exhibitions, museums, social debates, the labour market... How can they access it? That's a really big problem. Let me give you another example. There are sand dunes in the Häädemeeste district. There [was] a tea-servant in a place where an 85-year-old should also pass through. When he wrote to the parish government that he could not cross the dunes, the road was narrow, then the parish government replied that in the future he could build a staircase there. For an 85-year-old! Well, that's not inclusion, all right. In all this, it was surprising to me, frankly, that when I looked at who the institutions were involved, I saw that there was a shortage of Estonian umbrella organisation for disabled people in the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. There's a long, long list, but unfortunately, they don't exist. In this respect, I would like to draw the Ministry's attention to the fact that accessibility is an important and evolving topic in our society today, and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People as a umbrella organisation for people with disabilities is a very important input provider. I would certainly like to ask for them to be involved in any cultural area in the future. I don't have much else to say. As a whole, I repeat, it is important that this development plan exists, here various areas have been addressed. But not everything is covered here. The development plan must be a coherent, comprehensive view of how things will improve in the next nine or ten years. How much time do I have? I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U146	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U147	Three hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U148	I can't have three hours. I can't have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U149	In this respect, I very much want strength for the Minister, the Ministry. I.D. can be improved. I hope these inputs here will be useful. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U150	Thank you very much. Next, Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U151	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U152	And three minutes of extra time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U153	Thank you. Dear listeners, When it was decided in the Committee on Culture whether this development plan would be sent to plenary today, I opposed it. I was opposed because this is actually the only way in Parliament to influence the process of processing development plans in general and in some way to influence the content of these plans, because if the committees did not send forward the development plans, this would mean that the content should still be discussed and that officials should complement it accordingly. But unfortunately, our committees have not taken advantage of this opportunity. I start by saying that the process of processing development plans is not appropriate for the parliamentary state at all, because the Riigikogu elected by the citizens can discuss and make proposals, but no more. In this way, legislative power, that is, we do not give guidance to officials, but officials still give guidance to us, because we have to take the development plans into account in our future decisions. Development plans, right, are confirmed by the government, and also changes to them can be made by the government. Now I'm gonna go to the contents. The main problem of the cohesion of our society or Estonian society is the isolation of the indigenous and foreign population. This is due to the proportion of our population of foreign origin, which in turn comes from our history. Originally, this development plan was aimed more clearly at integration, including the term 'integration' in the title, now no longer. Indirectly, this may mean that the integration of the population of foreign origin into Estonian society has been abandoned or something has been defined, for example Estonian society. In any case, in this development plan, this major problem has become blurred between the three sub-objectives. In addition, there are four sub-objectives, which, frankly, are quite ridiculous or at least inappropriate here. It's an upgrade to the population register. You see, this is a general technical tool, I would stress that it is an instrument, not an objective. It is so basic that it does not need to be written into the development plan at all, because how can policy be made at all if we do not know the population data. Okay. I will move on to the basic question. I believe that I, as well as many others, have become quite sensitive about superficial and overoptimistic conclusions affecting integration. I still remember pretty well the integration concepts of Iris Pettai, Ivi Pris and Marju Lauristin, which were totally disproved by life. You see, by bronze night, this integration policy had to produce very good results already, and a coherent Estonia had to be on its way right away. I'm afraid it wasn't. So, not only is the main problem blurred in the current development plan, but I certainly do not agree with the assumptions of the development plan. The fact that the Estonian population is ageing and shrinking, as confirmed in the development plan. Well, maybe that's the trend, but according to statistics, 145,000 people by 2080. In particular, the development plan confirms that according to Statistics Estonia. I'm telling you, the Statistical Office can't have that kind of data, because there's a pendulum, I suppose, no job. It is still one of the forecasts of many, which are determined by the baseline data. Source data determine and is one of many forecasts. Further, migration flows to Europe from unstable neighbouring regions and from Africa are also a prerequisite. It is also a prerequisite that multiculturalism, the heterogeneity of society continue to increase, etc. I really don't know where these assumptions are taken from. They depend on politics, I'm sorry. One policy brings such a future to fruition and the other does not come true. At least I don't have the kind of foresight that the authors of the development plan have that kind of policy. There are places that show the incompetence of the authors here and there and there and there and there and there. For example, the number of registrations of short-term employees which are more than three times higher this year than indicated in the development plan. Okay. This fundamental problem, which determines the coherence of our society, has not been attempted in any way to quantify data. Instead, as in the case of integration monitoring, most opinion polls have been used. But the information from opinion polls is very relative. In social sciences, it is considered to be the least reliable, depending on a wide range of factors. It is important that, when monitoring the implementation of the development plan, this leaves it possible to ask differently next time, especially if these [questions] are formulated as widely as in the development plan. Besides, there's five 17 meters missing at all. Again, I must say that this development plan is not even mature in its own system. So how are we discussing this now? Actually, we're discussing the pig we have in the bag. We don't know what speed and where they're headed. However, a more clear analysis of the success of coherence or integration would result in a comparison of behaviour. The population of indigenous and foreign origins should be compared with kriminogenicity, unemployment, including the spread of HIV, the use of strong drugs, life expectancy, etc. There are very clear parameters for looking at how integrated society is and looking at how it changes over time. Then we can decide whether or not we are moving towards coherence. With these nebula parameters, we're not really going to determine that. Okay. The most important deficit in this development plan is not taking immigration into account. If, after all, immigration continues on the same scale as in the last two years, it must be honestly said that we are simply abandoning the formation of a coherent society, or that coherence in Estonian society should be re-defined instead. Just as the new left-wings try to do with many concepts. To sum it up. I do not know what this development plan will do in Estonia for the better or where we will set these more specific targets. However, as we know, when applying for euro money, we need to refer to the development plan. It is useful, on the one hand, to write as foggy as possible and, on the other hand, to put emphasis on the values that Brussels bureaucrats consider desirable. So these development plans in this form are, in fact, indirect instruments of the institutions of the European Union under the leadership of our official body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U154	Thank you. Marko Šorin, please! Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U155	Thank you! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to thank Minister of Culture Anneli Ott for his thorough review. I am sincerely pleased that such an important and comprehensive document has been produced for Estonia, which I hope will also be used actively. In order to promote the topics discussed in the coherent Estonian development plan, we had several development documents in the past. Now they're all together. The process of developing the development plan is in itself a value in itself and provides input from the information available from the field. Even the best of us won't know what's gonna happen in the next five, nine or ten years. We can mark the trends we are most likely to face. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, in the context of this development plan, I would like to pay attention to adaptation and integration policies. Before solving bottlenecks, it is important to understand what is meant by adaptation and integration. Primary adaptation means self-sufficiency and active participation in society. In time, it is limited to up to five years. Long-term integration is, however, a process that develops national identity and closer relations with the community and the local population. This means that people from different language and cultural backgrounds carry an Estonian identity, participate actively in society, share democratic values and a common culture and feel cohesion. They also live with our athletes in sports competitions. To this end, a level playing field must be created for successful self-sufficiency and well-being for all people living in Estonia. I am pleased to note that the country has contributed to this area and we are seeing progress. The final report on Estonia 2020 confirms that progress in this area is stable. The integration of Estonian society has been consistent and with a positive trend. There is more tolerance and openness in society and the state identity of people of different nationalities is strong. It is important to note that a reasonable balance has been found in Estonia between the identity of people of another nation and the Estonian language and culture. In order to achieve a positive result, no coercion can be used here. Studies carried out in Estonia show that if representatives of national minorities had to give up their language and identity of origin to live in Estonia, their national identity would be significantly weaker than in a multicultural situation where members of the majority group support the preservation of their language and culture. The aim of Estonia's integration policy is to create a sense of unity and integration from the surface of the Estonian cultural space. We have a total of 90 integration and adaptation services. I believe that no one doubts that the state of Estonia must guarantee all those who wish to learn the Estonian language free of charge. This task is carried out by Estonian language houses in Tallinn and Narva from 2018, which organise free state language courses and activities that enable the use and extension of the communication environment to preserve language skills. Some so-called language cafés or meeting clubs, such as Pärnu, are also known. The number of people with an active Estonian language also shows an upward trend. While this figure was 36% in 2011, it was 41% last year. This shows that the state's efforts are bearing fruit, although it must be acknowledged that the pace of growth could be even faster. Several indicators suggest that an increasing number of people living in Estonia feel a stronger bond with our country. The majority of Estonians as well as residents of other nationalities were the bearers of a medium or strong state identity. Labour market gaps between Estonians and people of other nationalities have narrowed. The number of persons of undefined citizenship has also decreased and the number of Estonian citizens has increased. 72% of new immigrants who have completed adaptation training estimated that their competitiveness in society has improved. These facts suggest that the adaptation and integration policies of the Estonian state bear fruit and we are moving towards an increasingly cohesive society. I am taking this opportunity to confirm (I think it needs overemphasis): Estonia is a sustainable nation state where everyone is happy to live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U156	Thank you. Eduard Odines next, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Culture! I'll start with thank you. A very big job is done, very intelligent, clear, and, as has already been mentioned here, a well illustrated and readable, structured document. In principle, the objectives outlined in this development plan are also clear, understandable and can only be accepted. But, like yesterday's discussion on the cultural development plan, it must be said here that the most important thing is probably not to talk about the objectives, because we agree with them in the majority, but these are the most important ways in which these objectives are being pursued. Apparently, there are different ideological approaches to the various sides of this hall. But I believe it is important for everyone that Estonian society is coherent and cohesive. How do we get there? This is now a question where, unfortunately, the Riigikogu, as has already been said here, has short hands. This is already decided by other people, not by the parliament of the Republic of Estonia. But once again, I would like to thank all the authors of this development plan. This process was long, the process was complicated. We have also heard at the meeting of the Committee on Culture how at first there was one development plan, then he became second and finally even third. But the result is good. The inclusion process was very important and very, very effective. The authors must be thanked for this. The Social Democrats on whose behalf I speak here today certainly support the general objective that the Estonian state is sustainable, the Estonian state is a nation state and Estonia is a country where everyone is happy to live. As I said, unity and a cohesive society are the keywords we would like to talk about. Some keywords I might want to pay more attention to. This development plan has three directions or three components or three areas that it covers. Integration and adaptation are the first. Its relationship with coherence, a coherent society and its overall objective [of the plan] is perfectly understandable and perfectly reasonable. The second is the development of civil society. Its connection with a coherent Estonia is also predictable, it is clear. If we look at the overall objective of the development plan, then there will also be empowerment of communities, community engagement. All these things fit into this context. However, the third direction is to develop and contribute to the population register. I don't know if it's now stitching the jacket to the sleeve or vice versa, but in any case, it doesn't seem very suitable here for its purposes, its structure or these issues. I also asked the Minister for the Interior in the Committee on Culture. The answer was very creative. It is understood that any area can be linked to any area. But this topic of the population register seems completely illogical here. Maybe somebody at government level, at ministry level, can fix something else there. This would be much more suited to some e-social development plan or other document. I would like to stress specifically the importance of education and education in the context of this development plan. I have also asked this in the Committee on Culture and I also asked this today. I would perhaps like to debate more on this issue and discuss it more, but, unfortunately, as we know, we have one question in this Chamber and there is not much more of this debate. However, education is a basic area from which the coherence of our society as a whole begins, integration begins and, in fact, adaptation begins. For nothing, I did not want to specify from the minister, which is still the objective of education in the context of a coherent Estonian development plan. It seems more and more that as many as there are development plans, there are educational goals. As has already been quoted today, the Estonian language development plan sets one goal, the second goal of the Estonian education development plan, but if we look at a coherent Estonian development plan, there is a third thing. I did not understand very well the Minister's words that this development plan was not relevant to this issue. It is very direct; it is very direct about learning together, learning together with different native languages, people from different cultural backgrounds. It means that education is completely in here. It does, however, aim at something other than the development plan for the language and the development plan for education. Hopefully, somewhere, probably at government level, will be able to agree on what our common goal is in the field of education, on the issue of students in other languages, teaching in Estonian, teaching in Estonian and studying together. As has already been said, the Social Democrats naturally support the model of the co-educated school and everything involved. It is good to see information room themes in this development plan. A very important question. Hopefully, the Minister of Culture will be able to provide sufficient financial resources for this topic, so that both the Russian-language and English-language channels, as well as the national communications, can reach all people, and we will all be in a common information room, regardless of our mother tongue and cultural background. Labour market issues are very important. I hope that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, there will also be enough opportunities here to reduce, and strengthen, the gaps between people in other languages and those in Estonian in the labour market, both in terms of employment and wages. It may even be one of the weakest places in the whole system. The issue of local governments is very important. The global Estonians, of course, are important here, even though the terminology is a bit confusing here. You do not understand who is spoken of, whether Estonian people, Estonians and people of Estonian origin. Who they are, it should certainly be specified, either in terms or in the text itself. Civil society, sector three, very well written. It is obvious that it was once a separate development plan, now it has been brought here, but very well linked to other areas, as well as to integration and adaptation. In any case, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for this comprehensive document. If you need our advice or any questions left in the air, please turn, we will be happy to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U158	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of the coherent Estonian development plan is to make Estonia a more coherent and inclusive society in the next decade. The Group of the Fatherland, on whose behalf I am speaking at the moment, fully agrees with this. The general objective of the development plan is to read as follows: "Estonia is a sustainable nation state in which everyone has a good place to live. The Estonian people are cooperative, share a common Estonian cultural space, value the Estonian state and feel cohesion, regardless of their mother tongue, cultural background or place of residence. In diverse Estonia, all people share democratic values and share a common Estonian identity. The state's activities are human-centred and support the development of communities. All people feel that they are valued and involved. The Estonian people want to link their lives to Estonia..." This is an excellent introduction and there is no reason to doubt that all 101 members of the Riigikogu actually want it. But let's see how this development plan actually contributes to this general objective, this excellent introduction. To achieve this, we need to move towards a seamless society. But before a seamless society, you really need to sew these pieces up, grow up and add up. Only then can we begin to lose stitches. However, it must be said that this development plan, in its indiscretion, in sufficient inaccuracies and, if you wish, in its lack of sharpness, is not a sufficient force to move towards such a society. I think the government still has a lot of work to do here. Let's maybe take a look at a little bit of shape. I've still been asking about the gauges here. Indeed, there are 18 metrics in the development plan, 12 of which are included in the data. That's a good 2/3. There was less than half yesterday, so why don't you tell me that the progress is great? But for me, it's still unsatisfactory. It simply shows that we do not have enough specificity and sufficient desire, enough sharpness. A good colleague, Eduard Odines, has already touched on adaptation and integration in Estonia. He brought a comparison with the development plan of Estonian language and the development plan of education. If we set aside a binding Estonian development plan, we will see that we interpret the acquisition of the Estonian language differently. Instead of telling us directly that we need to switch to education in Estonian, to set up this topic on servitude, we are talking about starting a pre-school education that provides sufficient language skills, etc. There is, in fact, a lack of specificity, and that is a problem. Let's look at the global Estonians. This is certainly a question that deserves to be discussed in depth, but here we also see that greater specificity is needed. We want the number of Estonians living abroad in Estonian society to increase from 76% to 85%. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U160	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U161	However, we do not set a very specific objective as to how we can still get our compatriots to Estonia and how much this figure could be to maximise this effort. Indeed, one such nuclear part of this development plan, for which we must definitely praise, is community-based Estonia. There are a number of issues that cannot be discussed at this time, which are quite open and which must be accepted and satisfied. But maybe I'll mark the most important bottleneck. That's the volume of the budget. We have EUR 3 million for this area. A little less than EUR 3 million per year is obviously too little. Let's just look at the country's contribution to historical, state-protected temples. Well, this amount could only take this and the other area would not be covered. Really, smart population calculation, this part of the development plan seems artificial, but if it's already here, it could be more specific, much more specific. He could grab a census of how we organise it as an e-state. It would really be better to treat Estonia as a digital state, perhaps in some digital development plan. But here, too, I see such caution, such indiscretion. Let me give you an example. The proportion of residential data in the population register, the actual data, is currently 75% and could increase by more than 75%. But how much? And why isn't 25% of people included in the population register according to their place of residence? Really, obviously this isn't a question of this development plan, but if we're already bringing it in here, we should create a full picture. A cohesive, cohesive society is Estonia for all of us, and we must all work towards it, including the Government of the Republic. I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this development plan. However, in fact, this work is still in progress and I therefore want the strength to continue this work. More precision! More concrete! And if you want, more sharpness, more serve! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U162	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U163	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Good colleagues, you who are listening in the office right now because I know that it is always better to listen in the office several times. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. "In order to be honest with you, I have to start with this... "That's how it started, "Agu Sihvka reports." Perhaps I would remind you that in 2019 a government was formed. Before that, the Riigikogu elections were held and various programmes were drawn up. As the chairman of the Fatherland Nationalists' Association, I was entrusted with the drafting of several chapters, which [the topic] was also nationalism and also the external Estonian community, which we called the ulguests. It may seem a little strange at some point, but it's not. The coalition also formed a problem committee for the population crisis; we also had a briefcase of the Minister of Population, or the portfolio itself, as it did not exist, was a map. That's how the three things started working together. The Riigikogu has repeatedly had foreign-Estonian support groups. I am here, not as the President of the Support Group, but rather as a member of the Support Group, because I have not coordinated this free speech with the members of the Support Group. I represent the party just as much as I belong to the Fatherland Nationalists' Association. I would like to say about the opinions they all had here, why this clever calculation has come in here. It was a problem, a public counting problem. There were two schools. Sociologists wanted more money to do more research, research, and research. It's such a permafrost activity. The others wanted to get us a million more, we're gonna do an IT thing. But we never sign in to the duties that it has to be compatible with the systems that already exist. After the patsy boys say that ups, it didn't match because no one told us before. I had questions I asked. There is no answer in these large round forms, sometimes. The good Minister of Culture may have snatched this round of reply for the Minister of the Interior. It's perfectly normal. Since 2014, Europe has banned the dissemination of hostile publications online, as the terrorist threat was extremely high in Europe. From that moment on, it was also the idea that the retranslation of hostile TV channels to the state would be stopped. We're not shutting down the television channels, we're just not allowing this retranslation. Today we want to talk in Estonia about perhaps pro-Empire TV channels. If we also look at the fight against COVID, we will see that if people live outside the Estonian cultural space, they will receive their information from somewhere else, and hence this number of infections. This document is good in that it contains the word "national state," again. We are not talking about Estonians, about all of them, but we are talking about Estonians with courage. But for some reason, we still do not understand the difference between a minority and a national minority. Officials say it's the same in translation. In Estonian, it actually means something else. National minorities are the minorities of the Estonian nation: setos, islanders, mulgid. However, ethnic minorities are smaller ethnic groups than Estonians; they are ethnic minorities. The Tallinn City Council already understood these documents correctly and accurately when I always asked if you were going to give the Setos money again so that they could learn Estonian. But it wasn't. I would be delighted if we would involve all the smaller Estonian cultural societies scattered around the world. Because, as we talked about, this diversity, we need to get it right and it won't come. Finally, I would like to say that a little civil society has come in there. It's the local elections. I don't know about you, but for 16 years I've been a member of the Committee on the Review of Financial Applications by Non-profit Associations and Foundations in the Kristiine district. The situation is that we have 3000 euros to distribute in Kristiine district with 32000 inhabitants. That's about eight euros per citizen a year. This is not the way civil society promotes it. Something already exists, but as a parliament, we just have to say, well, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U164	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U165	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I brought some cabbages. What is this: Estonian language, transport and mobility, youth field. Didn't get everyone here, didn't make any sense. [[The package of paper falls on the floor.]] I'm sorry! You know who's read it. Again beautiful bumaga, 37 pages of text and tables and all beautifully illustrated. I'm sorry, but I could've done that myself. They're slippery, too. Very slippery. This may also be a general characteristic of it. Many colleagues have already said that such a round and little specificity. God willing. Some metrics are not yet clear, as the honourable Minister of Culture said, we will hear at the end of the year. It's such a smooth, slippery new document. The subject is very important. I recently held an election with a bus driver who has been in Finland for ten years. He said that when he went to Helsinki as a bus driver ten years ago, four or five people from a couple hundred were a little different from Finns, well, they were mostly dark. Now, ten years later, he is one of the few white people who is doing this important job there. Why am I saying this? We're actually on the front line. Sweden is on the other side, and all these arrows will reach us. This development plan begins with beautiful drawings; there is a large circle where a number of arrows come to us, all these extensive migratory flows from unstable regions, labour migration, climate exile, etc. It's all real, it's all coming. There's a lot of that already. The situation is about the same as the song was sung before the singing revolution to stop Lasnamäe. I don't know what to stop right now. So it is good that we have such a document, a coherent Estonian development plan, so what to do as a state on the so-called front line or soon to reach the front line. But yes, it's quite ungrateful and hard work to do. Really, 2018 started work, three years of effort. But I was just checking to see if they were all coordinated. As I pointed out here, I was surprised to find that Mägi-Estonia or Põlva-, Võru- and Valgamaa, where the respected Minister of Culture also happens to come from, are probably so hopeless that they did not even need to be coordinated or discussed. Maybe I'm wrong, but in any case, the papers show that. Hiiumaa thought it was necessary. But that's it. So anyway, a lot of work, but I think it's a little wool. The second thing is to create a common, understandable and reliable communication and information space for the target groups. Let's look through the door or out the window tonight. There are at least two leaves in the crowd. The restrictions have not been adequately explained to humans. People have come out to Toompea, too, and they will probably come again in the near future. We're talking now that we should create this room. Yet there is no room created. I often don't approve of Marju Lauristin, but recently she had an interview on the ERR portal, where she said nicely that what's gone wrong at first doesn't fix it with cosmetics. I am thinking of the current government's policy on vaccination and combating corona. You can makeup and decorate the body, but it would be easier to just take her away and start from scratch. Just like this victory pillar of the War of Independence: to pull off and do something that doesn't have to spend so much. There's a lot of things to look at here. For example, it is very interesting to look at the proposals that have been made about this great work and what has been answered. I would like to point out that perhaps the most important thing to say is the demographic and other things to which I, too, have been involved for some time in a committee that was killed...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U166	Peter, I'm sorry. Would you like some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U167	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U168	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U169	These proposals are reasonable, I am not going to read them out, but everywhere it has been said that it has been explained and then that you should look at the previous one. What's that about earlier? When this change of power took place and Signe Riisalos, a good member of my committee, became a minister, corrective measures were made and a welfare development plan started to be drawn up for the years 2023 to 2030 and all these things were pushed there. So a couple more years. All these issues are currently not reflected in this development plan, or at the time of the new elections, or maybe someday something will come up. There's a very interesting statement. The Alliance of Families has pointed out that the role of sustainable Estonia in financing is at its worst. At the same time, it is aimed at the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture and the text of the entire Preamble. Other key issues, as in this explanatory memorandum or amendment, are more loosely linked to the development of the nation state and population. But according to the funding, I stress, it is obvious from the funding that sustainable Estonia is not at all the most important. I can't agree with that. We're not all in that wallside row either. And now wait for the next development plan, which will surely be very beautiful, maybe 40 pages or 37, certainly on shiny paper and will easily fall off this table from other people's... First of all, thank you, Minister, that such a paper has been prepared, but it could be much more specific, much clearer, because the challenges we face are very big and very sharp. I stress again: we are on the front line. I repeat: I think that this matter could have been discussed with people from Mountain-Estonia, where you are from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U170	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U171	Thank you very much. Good people! Dear Minister, I have to say, I'm really sorry. I deeply regret these hours of work, of these thousands of officials, of the organisations involved who have worked on it, there is a whole page full of them to produce something that is seriously unnecessary. At the very least, it has become the custom of us here in the Riigikogu to adopt an enormous number of different development plans for five, ten or 15 years. It's like a core business. In addition, of course, the directives of the European Union. It's like we don't have to think and do anything anymore. Maybe it's connected to the elections, maybe, but maybe it's because we don't have a function here anymore. To deal with development plans, as my good colleague Jaak White said, is wrong. This is already inappropriate because indeed, Jag had the right remark, we are in a situation where the authorities write down our activities and we, as politicians, must nod and deal with it. Actually, it should be the other way around. Moreover, it has a politically inappropriate dimension. Yeah, it's exactly like that, really, if we had political authorities and government circles in power for 15, 20, 25, 30 years in a row, then I would understand that such long development plans are being made. But we have another system. It is still the case in our Parliamentary Parliament that, in four years' time, new politicians will come, they will have new ideas, new will. But to them, officials have written something for a long time and voilà. Well, it's not appropriate, really it isn't. The second problem is this, and again I have to rely on the words of my good friend Jaak, that this is not only an ideological, but also a scattered and sometimes very immature thing. To some extent, I understand these things, but this understanding only leads to negative conclusions. When we visited the NO Theatre "One Estonian Grand Assembly" in 2010, it seemed to me that this was such a fine political humour. When we watched "Rigimeh" on TV in 2010, and there was such a character as the Minister of Social Coherence, who was presented by an actor named Taavi, it also seemed to be a good humour. But today we live in it. Today we are hearing about this agenda for 2030, we have a department of cultural diversity and a chancellor. It's all going there, that's where it's going. We are dealing with coherence, inclusion, values, tolerance, open-mindedness, these are all such political slogans. I'm really sorry about that. We could do something sensible. You see, it's the wrong way to go like this. My point is this: I believe that very many people support it, so that we here, for the money of the people, using the time that should be spent for the benefit of the people, we could be less engaged in unusable substitution activities, empty-handed, political slogans, both ministries and us here in the Riigikogu. Let the parties keep these things. Yes, parties are paid money and given the opportunity to deal with political slogans. This activity here, I don't know how many millions it's cost, but I know it's gonna cost another 200 million if we start doing it somehow, somehow. That's not good. You know, there is one other thing that I am only pleased about: Mr Pevkur told us at the opening of this sitting that we would not take a decision on this plan. That's very good. All we have to do is clap on it and hope that it will remain a political theater and not evolve further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U172	Thank you very much. The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak, but the Minister of Culture Anneli Ott has also asked for the opportunity to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U173	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to comment in a few words on the points set out in the negotiations. The most common topic was the inclusion of South-East Estonia. For explanation. The list in the documents reflected the discussion of the development plan directly in the counties, but in South-East Estonia there was a field work in South-East Estonia in 2019 in which this topic was discussed, in addition to a regional tour in 2021 when the topic was also discussed in the counties of South-East Estonia in the context of Culture 2030. This tour of the counties would have reached south-eastern Estonia, as it was already discussed in the field work, for the second time, but the restrictions came on and as a result the second visit directly did not come to the area. However, one part of the development plan, which relates to the Roma issue, is also very closely related to the county of Valga and these discussions have taken place. In addition, on the day of cities and rural municipalities, local authorities were equally involved in discussions, including those from South-East Estonia. Now the gauges. We have the meters, we know what we want to measure. We're waiting for data from various studies. One is a major study carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and these data, as I mentioned earlier, should be received by the end of this year. The second is an internal security survey, whose metrics we are waiting for next year. Indeed, one is the process of developing a development plan, but at the same time there are a lot of studies in parallel that we can use to determine the metrics, but they are not one-to-one timed, so that is why some basic data are still waiting. Thank you. Thank you very much and thank you for this very constructive debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-12_U174	There are no further requests to speak. The debate is closed, the item is exhausted, the sitting is closed.
