ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will start the 5th working week Tuesday session of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu. As usual, at the beginning of the sitting, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. First, please, Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When we were discussing the subject of the marriage referendum here, a huge number of proposals from the Reform Party had to be reduced to every time you were allowed to have sex with children. The political group of our party takes a different view, we think that in Estonia it is every too low. When we came up with this legislative amendment in the previous composition, we also offered in the government that we should raise it every time. At the time, the Centre Party opposed it. Nevertheless, we know that we have recently had a number of serious ugly and horrible news that we have a problem with pedophilia in Estonia. In the previous government, it was also planned to make a record, but it remained behind dragging its feet in the Ministry of Justice. So we come up with a legislative amendment that would raise the legal age in Estonia to 16 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U3	Riho Breiveli next, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Mr Taavi Asa. This is about the ongoing violation of the State Border Act in STS operations. This means that between the beginning of this year and 8 February there was a transhipment of gas condensate on the Estonian inland sea. However, one STS operation permit has already been issued for the loading of gas condensate near Naissaar in the H anchor area. The Ministry of the Environment noted that during the last week, conflicting information has spread to the media, as if transhipments from dangerous goods ships to ships were carried out in a storage area in Paldiski D-ankruala. It has also been found that two cargo loadings from the ship in this area this year were not carried out in the storage area. According to the State Border Act, such economic activities may not be authorised or, if so, for some very exceptional national reasons. The subject of the STS operation must be thoroughly and definitively discussed. The Estonian state regulates the handling of fuel in port quite strictly. There must be security chiefs responsible for this, and other rules must be very strict, as must restrictions. This means that the work on the high seas must be carried out under exactly the same conditions as in ports. According to the information, there is a ship-to-ship transfer of liquid gas beyond the Pakri islands. This threatens the security of Estonia and so on. In view of the above, I have questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U5	So, Martin Helme, a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U6	Sure. We had a discussion here yesterday for over an hour about whether and how the Prime Minister could come to the Riigikogu to talk about the corona crisis. We know that the factions have also turned to the Board of the Riigikogu and the Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded it to the Prime Minister. I have a question as to whether the Prime Minister has answered anything. Is it possible for us to be smarter today? When will the Prime Minister come to talk to Parliament about the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U7	Thanks for asking. As far as I know, the Bureau has not yet received a reply. Thank you. Mr. Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U8	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Members of Parliament, both in this Chamber and behind the TV screens: a beautiful New Day! The second question actually concerns what Mr Helme referred to. It is that yesterday the President of the Riigikogu said that it has not been possible to reach contact with the Prime Minister. Does the President have any information on whether contact with the Prime Minister has been reached and on the basis of this contact?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U9	As I said, the Prime Minister has not yet informed the Riigikogu when he can come before us. I'm sure he'll be in front of us at Question Time tomorrow, maybe tomorrow. I strongly advise you all to prepare questions. As far as I know, the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, will also attend the Question Time, so that all topical issues will be answered. Ladies and gentlemen, I see there's a lot of questions. Let us also consider that we are being watched online today by a large number of diplomatic corps members, all of whom are waiting for a foreign policy debate. So I ask you to ask your questions quickly and specifically and, if possible, even proceed tomorrow. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U10	Thank you. Yeah, I have a very procedural question. As I recall, Estonia is a parliamentary state, and it is still the responsibility of the Riigikogu to stand up for parliamentary order. If we do not have the Prime Minister's wish to talk about a crisis involving the country, how should we, as Parliament, continue to act in this situation? Is it really the only way for us to make a motion of distrust, so he has to come here to answer questions according to the law, because Question Time is a routine form of political debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U11	Thank you. As was discussed here yesterday, the Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded a letter from the Isamaa Group to the Prime Minister. Certainly, when this answer arrives, the addressee will know about it and, if there is a wish, other members of the Riigikogu. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U12	Thank you! I have the question: how does the Vice-President of the Riigikogu decide whether the Prime Minister will come here to talk or can he talk about the COVID crisis just for us in the Question Time format? Where's that decision coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U13	Thanks for asking. My suggestion was to assume that the Prime Minister will be in Question Time tomorrow, and also to take this opportunity to ask him about health issues. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U14	Good manager! It's a good thing foreign diplomats listen to us and watch us. I'm going to ask you as vice-chairman. Should the Prime Minister answer the speech of the President of the Riigikogu, or will he leave it where this and the other, and the Chairman of the Riigikogu simply not exist for him? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U15	Thank you for your question. I believe that, just as each of us can decide for ourselves whether and when he will press the button or whether he will be able to answer at this point and not be occupied, for example, by another meeting, it is the decision of every person, including the Prime Minister. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U16	Thank you, Mr President. There is a factual situation at the moment that the Prime Minister is not responding to the invitation of either the Chairman of the Riigikogu or the Parliament. I personally have the impression that the Prime Minister has absolutely no regard for Parliament. What could be the factors that could disprove my view that Prime Minister Kaja Kallas considers Parliament to be nothing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U17	Thank you. As far as I know, the Prime Minister is coming to briefing tomorrow. And he certainly has a great deal of respect for Parliament, so there is no need to worry about it. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U18	Yeah, thanks! Another way, I didn't mean to ask, but still. As I understand it, the Prime Minister does not have to answer the speech of the President of the Riigikogu even 24 hours later. It's like you just called a villager or some random guy. Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U19	Thank you. It's none of my business to be someone's mouthpiece. Anyone who is the addressee of a call will have the opportunity to answer the caller. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U20	Thank you, Mr President. At this point, you answered my question that the Prime Minister wouldn't come to this hall because he was coming to briefing. Still, it deepens my conviction that the Prime Minister takes a condescending view of Parliament and performs only those tasks that are enshrined in the law, that is to say, he has an obligation to come to the Question Time. Do not talk to me about Question Time, but respond to what is possible to change my opinion and the opinion of most Members [and to show] that Kaja Kallas does not condescend to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U21	Thank you. Well, it seems we have a different position here. As far as I know, the Prime Minister is very respectful of Parliament and is on the table both in Question Time and in other drafts. Therefore, you will certainly be able to continue this debate not only in Question Time, but also when the Prime Minister is in this chair. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U22	Dear Vice-Chairman, You are not here at the moment, representative of your party, the Reform Party, you are currently the vice speaker here. You are an official, you represent Parliament, you must follow the rules of procedure and work. I am, of course, upset when you start reading our words and telling us how we should ask our questions. It's none of your business. I'm sorry, but it's none of your business! If we do this in accordance with our own rules of procedure, it is our business, and you do not have the opportunity or the right to intervene or to read to us here like our father. That's my point. There is another point. Yesterday, I saw some news where Kaja Kallas very snappyly announced: members of the Riigikogu can ask questions to me every Wednesday at Question Time. That is his view that he has no obligation, he has no need, he has no moral obligation to report to the Riigikogu and to respond to the appeal of the President of the Riigikogu. It's arrogance, and that arrogance must be tamed. And you, as Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, should be here in solidarity with the Riigikogu, not with your party partner Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U23	Thank you for that comment. I will certainly carry out the duties of the Head of the Riigikogu here, and I will also inform you about the possibilities, not what you have to do. Indeed, we have the opportunity for political groups, as well as members of the Riigikogu, to send proposals to the Prime Minister. The way they are answered is the decision of the Prime Minister. And as members of the Riigikogu, we have the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister questions every Wednesday during Question Time. Paul Pulpland over the web.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U24	Thank you very much. Good manager! I am somewhat disturbed, frankly, because we are now aware of the fact that two days have not been able to contact the Prime Minister. We also have information that he's coming tomorrow. How do you get this information if you haven't been able to contact the Prime Minister in two days?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U25	Thanks again! We have already addressed this issue. But as the President of the Riigikogu said yesterday, the request of the Isamaa Group was sent to the Prime Minister's office, and then the Prime Minister's office will answer it. Okay. Mr. Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U26	Thank you. The question is not that we should discuss whether or not the Prime Minister has received the information here, whether or not he has answered, whether or not tomorrow is Question Time. The question is, firstly, as I know on the basis of my information, that the Chairman of the Riigikogu has not had the opportunity to contact the Prime Minister despite various attempts. In order to make this contact, the President of the Riigikogu, as we know, took a break from the head of the Riigikogu yesterday. And the second question, which, from my point of view, is central to this subject, is that right now we have the highest unit measure of infection throughout the time of the corona virus. Members consider it important, although perhaps different groups of ambassadors have different views here, so that Parliament can get an overview of the current situation of virus circulation and of the measures planned by the government. There is currently no more important question in Estonia for society, for the people and for the state. That's the whole point. I'm a little surprised that yesterday, the attitude towards this opposition and coalition line was different. Indeed, Parliament is open, Parliament is waiting. But now, in fact, another rhetoric and a change to your positions has come, and now you are saying that the Question Time is the place where, alongside other topical issues, the corona crisis and the spread of the epidemic will be addressed. In my opinion, this is precisely what is at the heart of the issue, and Parliament has to deal with the most important issues in the country, which is Parliament's task in the parliamentary state. My question is this: as a member of the board representing the Reform Party, have you had contact with the Prime Minister on this subject and what has been the Prime Minister's feedback to you personally?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U27	Mr Reinsalu and other colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday we decided on the work programme we are working on this week. We voted on the adoption of the agenda and we endorsed the agenda on which we are now moving. As a result, improvements can only be made if, for example, the Prime Minister informs the Executive Board that he wishes to come to the Riigikogu and then the Riigikogu Board supplements the agenda. My recommendation is to move on to the agenda today. And if the Prime Minister signals that he wishes to come before the Riigikogu in exceptional circumstances, then the Board of the Riigikogu will make it possible without delay. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Vice Speaker, do you realize that Question Time is a limited format? In my opinion, it is not even appropriate to compare it with the point of discussion on the agenda of the Riigikogu in a separate crisis situation. Such a reform party's arrogance is embarrassing to me. And here Kaja Kallas should learn a lesson from the previous coalition, where the Prime Minister came to Parliament very quickly due to the viral crisis. Indeed, it is awkward to listen when the Question Time is compared with a separate item on the agenda for the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U29	Thank you for that comment. I understand it doesn't require an answer. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U30	Thank you, Mr President. For me, the situation is worrying. The parliament of the Republic of Estonia wanted to contact Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, but so far no response has been made. I wonder if anything has happened to him, whether he's alive or not. Since you are now, say, a speaker for Kaja Kallas' protection, I ask if you have had contact with Kaja Kallas. Because I would like to point out that you are still the vice-chairman of the Riigikogu. Here, perhaps it would be necessary for us to take a break of just ten minutes so that you can contact Kaja Kallas and let us know first, first, whether he is alive, and second, when he intends to come to Parliament. It is outrageous that Parliament is being sent, in Estonian, just for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U31	Thank you for your question. No information has been received from the management board of the Riigikogu to ensure that the Prime Minister has any concerns. The Prime Minister will perform his duties. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U32	Thank you. My colleague Reinsalu asked a specific question whether you, as Vice-President of the Riigikogu in person, have been in contact with the Prime Minister in the last 20 hours. Or do you not qualify for whose speech the Prime Minister must answer? You're not the vice-president of the Reform Party, you're only a member of the board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U33	Thanks for asking. I have not personally spoken to the Prime Minister in the last 20 hours, as you asked. Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U34	Thank you. But then the same situation arises, which was referred to by my proposal on the second question, that we should take a break and check what has happened to Kaja Kallas, that he no longer responds to Parliament. Maybe he's incapacitated in the sense of the General Part of the Civil Code Act. You should definitely take a ten-minute break here, because you yourself said you didn't know anything about him and you haven't talked to him in 24 hours. So this situation must be resolved immediately, here it is already a threat to national security if we do not know the fate of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U35	Ladies and gentlemen, However, I call on you to stick to today's agenda. Once again, the Prime Minister fulfils his duties. There is no need to worry about, for example, whether the Prime Minister has received the letters of the members of the Riigikogu or not. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U36	Good manager! Honourable foreign ambassadors who are watching the session! As we have clearly understood, Prime Minister Kallas does not have to respond to the Chairman of the Riigikogu, who is essentially the Vice-President of the State. Is this a normal situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U37	Thank you for your question. Ladies and gentlemen, I really invite you once again to go to today's agenda. The questions you ask revolve around the same subject. The Prime Minister will be sure to inform the Riigikogu when he comes to the Riigikogu. The first chance is tomorrow at Question Time, as far as I know. Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U38	Thank you. I will present you with a specific request: Honourable Vice-President of the Riigikogu, please take a break and check the state of health of Kaja Kallas and why he does not return his calls!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U39	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. I don't think that's necessary because our agenda today has been confirmed. The Foreign Minister is waiting and foreign diplomats are waiting, so I think it is right to go to today's agenda. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U40	Thank you. I support Kalle Grünthal's request. You said the Prime Minister would come if he wanted to. Well, that can't be the way it is. I would point out that we have a former Prime Minister Jüri Ratas sitting in the Chamber. I remember what kind of drunkenness the Reform Party pulled up when Jüri Ratas couldn't come to the Riigikogu the same day and postponed it, I don't remember either a day or two, a day, I think. Then the Reform Party as a party in opposition was completely pissed off, trampled its feet and accused the Prime Minister of humiliating and ignoring the Riigikogu. Now we see exactly the same behaviour of the Reform Party. And what you're doing right now isn't the most respectable. You will not give us answers and you will refuse to contact the Prime Minister so that Members can make sure that the Prime Minister is not hungover, unaccountable, sick, escaped from the country or whatever. Please make the call! If Kaja Kallas doesn't answer, call the State Chancellery, there's someone there who will answer. Perhaps someone will go and see for themselves that the Prime Minister is alive and well and ask him a question as to when he will come to Parliament. And then you pass on that information to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U41	Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I think that the circle of topics is exhausted. As far as the position of the Prime Minister is concerned, surely, if the Prime Minister has any obstacle to his work, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, in particular the Chairman of the Riigikogu, will immediately know about this. As there are no new raises, I think the three who have now registered will ask the last procedural questions and then we will go to the agenda to avoid holding on to another member of the government, the Foreign Minister, and our listeners from the diplomatic corps on the other side of the screen. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Am I correct in understanding your refusal to act as the vice-chairman and chair of the sitting of your Riigikogu you are currently refusing to comply with Parliament's request?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U43	Thank you. I will chair the sitting of the Riigikogu according to our approved agenda. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U44	Thank you, Mr President. I'd really like to adjust it here. Mart Helme said that we are seeing exactly the same behaviour, but I believe that we are seeing exactly the opposite of the behaviour of the previous Prime Minister on the most important national issue of dialogue with the representative of the people. Look, there's a problem or a strain. Of course, it is the call of Members to identify the location of the Prime Minister, etc., that is, in fact, irony, a protest expressed in irony. Parliamentary culture requires dialogue on important issues and the search for a common part. If the opposition is known that there is no output at Parliament level to deal with the most serious issue or there is no feedback, it will provoke protest and obstruction of work. However, the root cause of the obstruction of work is not that it is advisable to discuss the foreign policy agenda as an important issue, but that it is that it is not a form of dialogue. I do have a call on the coalition side to seek this dialogue at the level of the political group leaders. Because here we must also give the people of Estonia a signal of finding a common part and that Estonia is a parliamentary state and Parliament must be informed. Parliament cannot be in a bag [if issues should be discussed] that concern the most important issues, such as public health and coping with an epidemic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U45	Mr Reinsalu, thank you, your eloquence honors you. But once again, I would like to point out that yesterday we approved the agenda of the Riigikogu for how we will work this week. Similarly, we agreed and the President of the Riigikogu confirmed that if the Prime Minister expresses his wish to come before us this week, we will immediately find this opportunity. I think, as I said a few minutes ago, that now is the last question, Peter Ernits', and then we will go to the foreign policy debate. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U46	Thank you. I don't think that's the last question. Dear ambassadors, who are watching and waiting for the discussion of Estonian foreign policy! You will see how in an Estonian country where the risk of corona [and infection] is already at the fifth level of Europe, the Prime Minister of the Republic avoids the legislator, the parliament, does not communicate with the Chairman of the Riigikogu, who is essentially the Vice-President of the State. My question, or rather my proposal, is this: please, let us take a break and make it clear! There is no point in listening to the Minister for Foreign Affairs before that. Dear ambassadors, look at what is happening here in Estonia, in one of Europe's most dangerous coronas today!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, Once again: we have confirmed the agenda and I very much hope that you will also understand the respect of the Riigikogu for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is waiting here to hold his presentation and that we can hold a foreign policy debate. But now it is the last recorded speech from Siim Pohlak, and we will not take any more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U48	Good deputy speaker! You keep saying here that we are going to the agenda, we are going to the agenda. It seems to me that you still do not understand Parliament's wishes well. And if you speak of respect for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, first and foremost, the Prime Minister would also expect respect for Parliament. I will also repeat Mr Ernits's proposal: we will take a break and find out when the Prime Minister will come to the Riigikogu to speak on an important subject, because the numbers of the corona crisis will increase. I do not think we can start today's agenda until we have clarity as to when the Prime Minister will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U49	Thank you! The same answer: we should go to today's agenda and it will certainly be possible to start tomorrow's Question Time for the Prime Minister [and then examine from him] when he intends to come before Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, let's do the presence check that we still have to do. Please, let's do the presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U50	88 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 13. We can start the trial. I would also like to remind you that we have adopted a draft and an inquiry. Their further procedure will be decided by the board in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U51	Our first item today is the debate on foreign policy as a key national issue initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Before we go to it, I'll remind you how our procedure is. First, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimetsa has the floor for up to 30 minutes, then up to 90 minutes for questions and answers. The presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will be up to 15 minutes, questions and answers will be up to 30 minutes. I would remind you that each member of the Riigikogu may put together up to two questions to the rapporteurs, and during the negotiations it is possible for members of the Riigikogu and representatives of the political groups and committees to speak, but of course we prefer that the representatives of the political groups speak first. So, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Excellencys here and there on the screen! It is now open to Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimetsa as the main speaker of the foreign policy debate. Please! Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, I must, however, apologise once more, because I see that our colleagues have two more procedural questions. Siret Eagle first. I would like to ask urgent procedural questions so the Foreign Minister can start talking. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U52	It wasn't procedural. I wanted to take the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U53	Got it. Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, do you have a question or is it procedural?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U54	I have a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U55	Got it. Then please select "Word" from the remote. Now, Madam Secretary, please, the remote control is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U56	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! Estonia acts as a sovereign state in foreign policy so that our interests are represented and security secure and our people's lives improve. This year we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of our restoration of independence. 100 years will come from diplomatic relations with many of our allies and partners who have stood beside us but also supported us in difficult times. Together, we belong to a value area based on democracy, the rule of law, the free market economy, human dignity, the diversity of culture, identity and practices of all nations, freedom of expression and respect for human rights. Over the last decade, we have seen the power and unity of this value space crumble. In order to protect the rule-based world order and to preserve the common value of the West, we must address the root of these problems in our societies and promote and strengthen cooperation between democratic countries. In a changing world, it is vital for us that the people of Estonia understand each other, and as a country, we will never stand alone in the attractions of geopolitics again. To this end, we must make an effort in our foreign policy to ensure that the Western world remains united and operational and that we are part of its political core without exception. Unfortunately, the international security situation is strained. An international system, based on rules that have already been put under pressure, faces serious challenges, in addition to which the COVID-19 pandemic has created a global health and economic crisis. Authoritarian regimes act vigorously against international law, democracy and the basis of its operation, ignoring both fundamental freedoms and human rights. In a world where competition between great powers is increasing, Estonia must stand up bravely for itself. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonian diplomacy works every day to ensure that Estonia's security is preserved and secure and that the Estonian people, language and culture last through the ages. Pursuing international agreements and democratic values protects the national and national interests of Estonia and forms part of the foundation on which our domestic development and stable and peaceful relations with other countries rest. Estonia's security depends on the good work and skills of our own diplomats, our willingness to defend and our reputation and the strength of our allies. Of course, our ability to act as a credible cooperation partner on the international stage, contributing to the allies and thus to global security, is crucial. A strong transatlantic security regime is in Estonia's interest. Estonia's security is inextricably linked to the security of Europe as a whole. Its cornerstone is our membership of NATO, where we participate in all three core tasks: collective defence, crisis management and cooperative security. The Corona epidemic has shown that NATO is able to react quickly to unique crises, and allied relations are strong even when relations are complex. The Alliance is in good health. This year, NATO will look into the future, there will be a summit where the action plan for the next decade will be discussed and NATO's strategic concept will probably be renewed. It is in Estonia's interest that the strengthening of NATO's defence and deterrence stance continues, also in our region. The Alliance must continue to cope with both direct military and non-conventional and new threats. It is understandable that NATO deals not only directly with the protection of the transatlantic space but also with global policy issues, coordinating the security policy of the allies. Investing in security is the responsibility of each country. The credibility of allies depends on it. Estonia's defence expenditure has been in excess of 2% of our gross domestic product for a long time. However, transatlantic relations cannot be based solely on financial participation, but have always been driven by the interest in defending common values, maintaining peace and maintaining freedom. The leading role of the US in ensuring NATO's collective defence is indispensable. The US' commitment to allied relations has practical and symbolic value. That is why we will continue to work with the United States to secure a trusted alliance, both bilaterally and in international organisations, and we want the US to continue to play an active role in ensuring the security of our region, including through military presence. In addition to the active involvement of the US, the strengthening of Europe itself is critical to Estonia's security, but it is not an alternative to transatlantic cooperation. On the contrary, the strengthening of the transatlantic link, both within the NATO framework and on the axis of cooperation between the European Union and the United States, must be one of the key components of the strengthening of Europe. Estonia strongly supports closer cooperation between the European Union and NATO. Estonia is actively involved in shaping the European Union's foreign and security policy, because it is in our interests to speak with one voice, a principled, self-confident union, not only on simple but also on difficult issues such as relations with Russia and China. We support initiatives that develop the defence capabilities of the European Union, but I emphasise once again Estonia's position: NATO and close transatlantic cooperation with the US have no alternative to guaranteeing Europe's security. The European Union is able to establish itself in global competition, primarily through economic and trade relations. We therefore need to focus even more on strengthening the free international trade system, including the conclusion of free trade agreements. In order to keep a stronger global competitive initiative, negotiations on a free trade and investment agreement between the European Union and the US should be resumed. This must be one of the major goals of the European Commission in geopolitical terms. Estonia is actively and constructively involved in shaping the European Union's policy. Our self-setting strategy in the European Union has been well formulated by Lennart Meri, who was convinced that it must be 'yes', not passive but active and demanding 'yes'. We need to know exactly what we want and to base our decisions and choices on arguments. Joint decisions and policies taken with the active participation of Estonia in the European Union amplify our policies and also the development of the Estonian economy. The agreement reached in 2020 on the long-term budget of the European Union and the re-launch plan was an important achievement for Estonia, and we returned the funds for the construction of Rail Baltic and the implementation of the digital and green revolution from Ida-Virumaa to Hiiumaa. This year's conference on the future of Europe will begin, the discussions of which Estonia considers that it is necessary to focus on the development of the economy, the understanding of the European Union's global role and the shaping of a digital and green turn in such a way that we do not leave any of our people behind. National parliaments must play a key role in these future discussions. Dear Riigikogu! Estonia's small size does not mean that we should look at world politics side by side. On the contrary, Estonia must actively defend the current world order. The promotion of our interests depends on close cooperation and good relations with allies in international organisations, regional cooperation and bilateral relations. In the United Nations Security Council, we will continue to raise our region's security issues, both in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia, as well as in active action with far-reaching crisis zones. This year, we are carrying the work of the Security Council as one of the main negotiators on the peace process in Afghanistan and the arms embargo in Libya. We also consider it important to contribute to the discussions on the impact of climate change on international security. In order to ensure that our efforts do not become one-off, we have already decided to re-apply for the UN Security Council by 2050. In multilateral diplomacy, in addition to membership of the United Nations Security Council, we have set the objective of seeking the Presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe to participate actively in conflict resolution in the neighbourhood of the European Union and to promote human rights, fundamental freedoms and democratic norms, all of which are important to us here in Estonia. It is also important for us to have a Council of Europe where we are defending human rights and the rule of law together with co-ordinate countries. Ladies and gentlemen! The protection of human rights is also part of security policy. Estonia's policy is based on the need for countries to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is an essential prerequisite for stable transnational relations and successful conflict prevention. The aim of Estonian human rights diplomacy is to protect these principles, which are enshrined in our constitution, on the international stage. On this basis, Estonia has once again presented its candidacy as a member of the UN Human Rights Council for the years 2026 to 202028. I will soon present to the Government of the Republic an action plan on human rights diplomacy based on the Nordic space of thought and value which is characteristic of Estonia for approval. Climate diplomacy is becoming an increasingly important topic for foreign policy, with energy policy at the heart of which we are going through a grassroots process. The transition to renewable energy is a key element of the Paris climate agreement. Estonia must seize the opportunity to promote the energy economy by retreating from the crisis. New technologies that allow this are already in place and are developing rapidly. The changing energy policy affects the overall geopolitical situation, which Estonia must also take into account when shaping its security policy. I will present an action plan for climate diplomacy in Estonia to the Government of the Republic in the near future, one of which is Estonia's aspiration to the Arctic Council. At the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Arctic Council in May, Estonia's request to become an active observer of the organisation will be discussed. Observer status enables regional cooperation with other Arctic Council countries to be deepened and gives Estonian researchers the opportunity to contribute to climate change and environmental issues in this growing region. Estonia's security also depends on a secure cyberspace. For years, we have been active in the international arena for cyber security, and we will continue to do so. Estonia will continue to participate in the coalition of cyber-disruption led by the United States and the United Kingdom in order to strengthen cyber security for all of us. I would like to stress here that close cooperation between democratic countries is crucial to successfully countering aggression in cyberspace. As an advanced state of digital services, we can rely only on secure technology to build critical infrastructure and new 5G networks. Dear Riigikogu! Alongside multilateral diplomacy, active bilateral relations with allies are of critical importance to us. I talked about the importance of the US above, but alongside them, our allies and partners in Europe are also very important to us. Although the United Kingdom has left the European Union, it remains an important part of European cooperation and remains an important ally for us. Our relations have been intense in different areas. We wish that the British troops will continue to participate in collective defence on Estonian soil. It is in our interest that future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom should be as close as possible. In 2021, we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of diplomatic relations with many of our allies and partners, which will certainly give our bilateral relations a positive boost. Of course, the Baltic States and the Nordic countries are especially close partners to our hearts. We share common values, a shared role in history and culture, and an excellent experience of long-term cooperation. It is with them that the economic, trade, investment, environment and security in the region are particularly important for recovery from the Corona epidemic. Regional cooperation helps to increase the competitiveness of Estonia and the region as a whole, including the development of transport, energy and digital connections. Together with Latvia and Lithuania, we are taking forward the synchronising of Rail Baltic and the Baltic electricity grids with the Continental European frequency band, which has been commendably supported by the European Union. We will include the European Union's resources in order to continue the development of the joint Estonian-Latvian sea wind park. With Finland and Sweden, bilateral relations reports are planned to be drawn up in 2021 to help map opportunities for cooperation in the near future, for example in the field of wind energy and the development of a common gas market. It is important for Estonia to have a three-sea initiative involving Central and Eastern European countries, which needs our continued and comprehensive attention. In 2020, Estonia coordinated the work of the format and hosted its summit. Estonia also officially became a member and investor of the investment fund of three marine initiatives. The initiative is important to us because it provides an opportunity to improve the link between the Member States of the European Union and to develop relations with important allies, such as the US and Germany. I would like to congratulate both the President of the Republic and the previous government here on promoting the three maritime initiatives. Dear Riigikogu! For Estonia, what is happening in the immediate neighbourhood of Europe is a priority security policy. Russia's aggressive foreign policy, the voluntary abandonment of international commitments and democratic values and attempts to change the European security architecture have a direct impact on the security environment around us. The relations between Estonia and Russia cannot be seen separately from Russia's behaviour on the international stage or from the European Union's and NATO's Russian policy. Of course, our long-term interest is to have a good relationship with our neighbour Russia, but their policies and behaviour must also become good neighbourly. I am convinced that it is still in Estonia's interest that Estonia and Russia ratify the signed border agreement, and the incumbent Government of the Republic is basically ready to move forward on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! Estonia has supported and continues to support the territorial integrity of Georgia and Ukraine. The Crimea is still occupied, the war in Eastern Ukraine continues, and Russia has some of it. It also determines our foreign policy activities in the region. Estonia has deepened its bilateral relations with Ukraine and Georgia and consistently maintained their territorial integrity in international organisations, including the UN Security Council, the European Union and NATO. Estonia will also continue to support the democratic aspirations of the Belarusian people. Violence must stop, political prisoners must be released and political dialogue must start, resulting in free and democratic elections. It is also important to keep the broader ambition of Eastern Partnership policy high. It is in Estonia's interest to bring Europe closer, economically, politically and value-based, to those Eastern partners who want it. Estonia is working to ensure that this year's Eastern Partnership Summit is held, where we want to confirm its long-term goals and activities for the next decade. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I assure you that the government is committed to supporting Estonia's economic development in foreign policy with an active business diplomacy aimed at promoting exports, investments and tourism. The development of the Estonian economy, which is open and dependent on exports, is best guaranteed by free trade based on international agreements and rules. One of the prerequisites for economic development is to attract foreign investment. We consider it important to conclude bilateral investment protection agreements and to contribute to the activities of Estonian companies abroad. It is planned to develop an Investment Protection Action Plan aimed at agreeing on the main lines of work, both in international organisations and in bilateral investment protection agreements. We have greatly increased the reach of our business diplomacy. To this end, we have opened new embassies in Singapore and South Korea. We are increasing our attention to the Asia-Pacific region and we have endorsed the Africa Strategy. In fact, every Estonian embassy is our office of business diplomacy, whose tasks include supporting Estonian companies and attracting foreign investments to us. An important prerequisite for the success of our business diplomacy is the bright image of Estonia, so that we are not only known but known as a progressive, innovative, active and reliable society. Development cooperation and humanitarian aid activities also support Estonia's foreign policy objectives and strengthen our positive image. Our priority partners here are also the Eastern Partnership countries, Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and Belarus, but we are also expanding activities in Africa. Estonia is one of the leading countries of the European Union in supporting the digital revolution in developing countries. There is a huge demand for our experience, and it is in this topic that there are broad possibilities for linking development cooperation and business diplomacy with the involvement of Estonian private sector expertise in projects. Good listeners! For Estonia, every person is important. This will also guide us in the area of consular affairs and maintain good communication with the global Estonian community. The thoughtful and effective involvement of Estonians living abroad will contribute to the achievement of our country's future goals and international success. One of the objectives of the global Estonian programme is to involve the diaspora in Estonia's development and social life. New purposeful activities are needed to implement it and support Estonia's future. We have already taken some steps towards this goal. We conducted a survey at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in autumn to develop a diaspora policy and initiate specific development activities. The results of this will give us the knowledge of the tuning of Estonians living abroad, the extent to which they wish to participate in Estonia's life and what they expect of the Estonian state. In order to involve Diaspora more effectively, we will also create a special ambassador for diaspora issues at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Effective and consistent foreign policy is essential for the successful functioning of a small country. Estonia has been successful in international relations for the last 30 years because our foreign policy interests and goals have been clear and we have worked together to achieve them. In foreign policy, we can only succeed if we can design and implement a common foreign and security policy. I assure you that Estonian diplomacy is fully committed to our security, to the protection of our citizens and to the promotion of the well-being of our people. A strong External Action Service and social support, including, of course, your help, honourable members of the Riigikogu, will help to achieve these real goals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U57	Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, members of the Riigikogu also have a number of questions for you. The first question is Dmitri Dmitriev. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U58	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Since the Russian Federation is usually very exciting in the Riigikogu, I will also start with the [appropriate] question of the questions of the members of the Riigikogu. How do you assess the overall cross-border cooperation between Estonia and Russia and what do you consider to be the most important cooperation projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U59	Thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. The relations between Estonia and the Russian Federation are multi-level. We are concerned about Russia's steps, such as failing to comply with Minsk agreements, human rights violations and failing to comply with international commitments in Russia. These are the reasons why we cannot now promote good neighbourly relations with Russia, and these are also reasons why, for example, the European Union cannot promote successful bilateral relations with Russia. However, as has been said earlier, Russia is a neighbouring country of Estonia, which is why many other projects are extremely important to us. It is extremely important that cooperation with Russia continues, for example, in border regions for the most comfortable movement of residents across the border, for example when people have a home on one side of the border, but a tomb on the other side of the border, etc. Environmental projects are also extremely important. For example, if waste water treatment has been developed on one side and on the other side like Lake Peipsi, such cooperation projects with Russia are important and serve the interests of both parties and protect the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U60	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovsky is now joining us across the web. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Firstly, I would like to mention that I am pleased that our foreign policy is continuing in the same direction. Indeed, former Prime Minister Jüri Ratas also stood up for strong allies with the European Union and strengthened bilateral relations. But to the question. You mentioned in your speech that the geographical priority of Estonia's development cooperation is the Eastern Partnership countries, namely Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and Belarus. More specifically, what are Estonia's activities and projects to support these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U62	Thank you very much. Yes, it is extremely important for Estonia to support the promotion of democracy and freedom of expression in Estonia's immediate neighbourhood and in these countries. Estonia has also established an Eastern Partnership centre for this purpose, through which we have promoted several projects. We also have a project to support media freedom in Belarus, for example. Estonia will allocate EUR 800000 for the next five years to support a number of projects to enforce civil society in Belarus. Estonia has also supported, in cooperation with the e-Governance Academy, the enforcement of local governments in Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine, for example by cooperating with the Czech Republic. There are very many such grassroots projects that Estonia has carried out in these countries in the last ten years, and Estonia has similar projects with a view to the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U63	Next thing I know, Erki Savisaar's gonna ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U64	Thank you. Dear Minister, As a member of the Riigikogu, I have noticed that Estonia has long missed a systematic approach to foreign countries or at least does not share this vision with members of the Riigikogu. I mean, there is no vision with which we want better agreements in tourism, with whom we work, for example, in hydrogen development, where to sell our IT solutions, etc. In your speech, you said that this situation was clearly changing. Hence the question. What has already been done to expand Estonia's diplomatic reach and to secure positions in the European Union and NATO Member States, what are the plans with third countries and what is the role of the members of the Riigikogu in all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U65	Thank you very much for these questions, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Yes, it is extremely important for Estonia that Estonia's foreign policy is consistent, systematic and purposeful. Estonia has shaped its foreign policy into this, and it has certainly been much more active in recent years, precisely how to make Estonia's activities more targeted in defending its own interests. What has Estonia done in Europe and with Europe's partners and NATO's allies? Estonia has strengthened its bilateral relations with a number of important allies. For example, Estonia and France are participating in a military mission in Mali. This has greatly strengthened Estonia's bilateral relations with France. Estonia has strengthened its diplomatic manpower in important capitals, such as Washington and Warsaw. These are some examples of how Estonia has strengthened its relations with European allies. In my presentation, I have indeed pointed out how Estonia is planning to better exploit its untapped potential for third countries and to ensure that the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs and Estonian people are protected in different areas. That's why we're coming up with an Asian strategy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Last week, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs introduced Africa's strategy. These are the places where we want to ensure that the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs, whether tourism, export or other, are protected as uniformly as possible and how the External Action Service can support Estonian entrepreneurs as well as possible. Of course, domestic cooperation with other related institutions, such as the Enterprise Support Foundation or the Ministry of Economic Affairs, must also be ensured in the best possible and effective way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U66	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Foreign policy is certainly very important to promote economic diplomacy. I think it is commendable that during the last two governments, Jüri Ratas had established a number of economic diplomacy representations in different parts of the world. I understand that, in political terms and for the Minister, three weeks [being in office] is, of course, quite a short time, but I still want to ask who you have been able to communicate with in this three weeks and what you have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U68	Thank you very much for this question. I'll start with who I've been talking to. I have really considered it very important to first communicate with our primary neighbours. I have been in contact with almost all foreign ministers in the Nordic and Baltic countries, with the exception of Iceland, because this communication is still in preparation. I have been in contact with the Foreign Minister of a number of important allied countries, most recently with a German colleague, but I have also spoken with a colleague from Turkey, Greece and Spain. Several calls are still in business. Then, of course, I have had a conversation with High Representative Borrell, who is scheduled to have a meeting with him next Monday. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, my usual work has been somewhat limited. I have not been able to visit my closest neighbours as usual, but I have managed to visit Finland and have a visit to Latvia, which will take place tomorrow. I have also contributed and already participated in a number of international discussions with speeches, such as the Human Rights Council, as well as in the Arms Control Treaty Forum. So there's been a lot of work. Of course, I have contributed, thought along and worked on matters that are important for Estonia, such as discussions on free migration issues suspended due to the corona restrictions, where I have explained Estonia's views and our interests. There are many questions that I have taken to heart because they need to be dealt with. Have I done anything specifically in three weeks? I think this is a bit too ambitious a point of view on the question. I hope that if I have had a hundred days in office, it will be possible to answer this question considerably more meaningfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U69	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! When you answered the previous questioner, the word "Asian Strategy" went through. Since your last job was in Prague, I am asking how you would compare Estonian and Czech foreign policy, especially towards Asia. What changes have occurred, say, in Czech foreign policy towards Asia in the last year, during this pandemic?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U71	Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, I am happy to recall my previous profession, which has been less than a month. In global terms, Estonia and the Czech Republic are rather small countries, although the Czech Republic is 8.3 times larger than Estonia. These countries have also been different in their export policy ambitions. For example, it has been extremely important for the Czech Republic to open the Chinese market for Škoda cars. But there are certainly similarities. And one of the most important similarities between Estonia and the Czech Republic in the policy of Asia is the issue of China. In the area of cyber security, we have seen in particular that China has made cyber attacks on the infrastructure of many European and other allied countries. For example, in Prague in 2019 the Prague principles were adopted, on the basis of which a number of allied countries have decided that building 5G infrastructure will be guided by the principles agreed there, in order to ensure the security and security of this infrastructure. So there are a number of similarities between Estonia and the Czech Republic in Asian politics, especially in the case of China, but more generally, both countries give priority to the Asian direction, the potential for our business and tourism development. We have also noticed that it is certainly and increasingly important in Estonia in the Czech Republic that the know-how about this region is stronger and, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has supported Asian-oriented education at Estonian universities. Certainly, Asia is an area of growing importance to which attention must continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U72	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. There was a consensus in the outgoing government that it would not move forward in concluding a new border agreement with Russia. This is because the abandonment of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Estonia and the surrender of Estonia's legitimate rural municipalities in Petseri County and beyond Narva would, in essence, be detrimental to Estonia's national interests, betrayal of the Tartu Peace Treaty and also unconstitutional. You said in your report that the new government is ready to move forward on the new border treaty. And a moment later, you said that Estonia supports the territorial integrity of Georgia and Ukraine, talking about countries whose territory has been illegally occupied by Russia. Here's the question: should Estonia rely primarily on the Tartu Peace Treaty when concluding a new border agreement? If not, what results from a different view of the territorial integrity of Estonia and Georgia and Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U74	Thank you. Agreeing the state border between Estonia and Russia is in accordance with the Estonian Constitution. The first sentence of § 122 of the Constitution states that the land border of Estonia has been determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty of 2 February 1920 and other international border agreements. The text of the current border agreement has been signed on 18 February 2014 and this is the agreement with which the current government will also support progress. Why do we support it? The reason that the conclusion of the border agreement with Russia has a positive impact on Estonia's security is because it helps to increase stability and predictability in relations between countries and eliminates possible misunderstandings and misunderstandings on such an important issue as national territories. A clearly established and marked border is therefore an important security factor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U75	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U76	Thank you, good manager. Good Foreign Minister, thank you for your interesting presentation. You also briefly mentioned Estonia's new strategy for Africa. As head of the Estonian-African parliamentary group, I welcome the excellent fact that we are finally beginning to expand our presence on this continent. In this strategy, on the one hand, we are talking about digital solutions and a green turnaround, on the other hand, more sustainable use of African natural resources. If we now look at the use of natural resources and the digital revolution at once, we will inevitably come to such things as the Congo Cobalt Mines, where child labour is very brutally exploited. There have also been some major cases against Google, against Tesla, etc. If we now have the situation that our phones and electric car batteries need more and more transition metal, green turns and digital turns are demanding it more and more, and on the other hand it is being offered primarily in Africa, but also in China, which will cause the suffering of very many people, then what will we do as Estonia? How do we fight against this kind of labour, especially child labour, given our other objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U77	Thank you very much. Ensuring human rights is also an extremely important issue in Estonia's foreign policy. Estonia has decided in its foreign policy that there are several aspects of human rights to which horizontal attention is paid, both in terms of development aid and in promoting other foreign policy issues. The main forum in which Estonia raises human rights issues, including the treatment of child labour, are international organisations such as the Third Committee of the United Nations, the Human Rights Council and, separately, the ILO, the International Labour Organisation. These are the places where Estonia raises and addresses such questions. At the same time, it is still important for Estonia to support our entrepreneurs and give the opportunity to those Estonian entrepreneurs who wish to introduce Estonia's digital experience to third countries around the world and often also to use the financing of international organisations for this purpose. We believe that, for example, our digital solutions, which ensure transparency and increase the fight against corruption in these countries, actually support the opening up of these countries to democratic principles and the rule of law. Although we do not deal directly with human rights in these projects, digital development and digital solutions in these countries do indirectly contribute to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many questioners, I would remind you that the question should fit in one minute. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U79	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I want to pay tribute to you first. It is not easy to come to this hall, which was quite tense just before your performance. You've been able to do your job for less than a month. So congratulations on that, because the report was also very professional. But I'm coming to the beginning of your speech. You mentioned that this year we have at least two beautiful round anniversaries, and one also concerns our diplomatic relations with foreign countries. Of course, our success in the international arena depends on how close cooperation and good allied relations we have with other countries. How do we celebrate this round 100 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations with our external partners? Are we working with a foreign country on this too?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U80	Thank you very much for this question. Yes, it is indeed an extremely festive year for us. With a large number of important allies, we have the 100th anniversary of bilateral diplomatic relations ahead and indeed passed with some. For example, when we had diplomatic relations with Scandinavian countries here, Estonia and Denmark jointly organised a conference to promote environmental protection. This was, unfortunately, due to the digitally epidemiological situation, but through this conference we had the opportunity to show how we stand up for the same principles and values, in this case in environmental protection. This conference dealt with the sheer sheer number of corners, as well as the opportunities that we will be able to do together with the Danes in this region in the future. We often celebrate this anniversary with a few exhibitions. For example, it is planned to take a photo exhibition introducing Estonian street culture to Spain, which is planned for the streets in Spain, both in Madrid and in several other cities. It is also extremely practical in the current epidemiological period, when events cannot be organised indoors, but nevertheless we want to take Estonia to the streets of Spain. Of course, these relations are also celebrated with bilateral visits, which we intend to have several. How does the corona affect these possibilities? I am indebted to the answer at the moment, but I very much hope that we will still be able to carry out a number of projects this year and, through this anniversary event, to consolidate bilateral relations and to strengthen people-to-people contacts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U81	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U82	Thank you, Mr President. I am extremely pleased to see you on this board, because I think that the Government of the Republic has made the best of the best in choosing the most competent person in this area. I would like to know what the position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the recent attempt by the President of the European Commission to close the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland in relation to the conflict between the COVID-19 vaccine and, at the same time, the closure of some of Germany's borders. In particular, in the case of Brexit, the Irish border remained open and now the European Union is in a controversial position with regard to Germany. What should Estonia do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U83	Thank you very much for your good words and thank you very much for these important questions. Indeed, this year is, in this sense, very extraordinary that European countries are struggling with this epidemic. The need to protect public health has outweighed the principles agreed upon in Europe, according to which it would be right to ensure the free movement of people and goods within European territory. Estonia is actually facing the same question, where we discuss in the government twice a week how to ensure the protection of public health in such a way that Estonian society is open at the same time, economic activity can be ensured and schools open. Europe's Member States have every competence to decide and to do what the Member State considers to be the right thing. Indeed, we have seen that countries have chosen very different approaches. Your latest examples are due to the fact that new mutated strains spread significantly faster and that countries have decided to defend themselves more seriously in order to keep their people, their people's health. It is not possible to contribute much more in foreign policy here than it is hoped that national health authorities would be able to control the spread of the virus and that the vaccination plan agreed jointly in the European Union would be as successful as possible, that the vaccines ordered would reach people and, as a result, that public health and the protection of human health would be ensured. This would allow the borders to be reopened and continued as before February 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U84	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Andres Tarand on television this morning told us a little bit about the Arctic problems. In your speech, you also enlightened those directions. But I would like to know a little more about how we will have plans for Estonia in the future in the direction of Antarctica.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U86	Thank you very much for this question. Our ambition towards the Arctic is because we want to give Estonian researchers and researchers the opportunity to speak on climate issues there. It has been their wish, and that is what we have supported, we are working towards it. As far as Estonia's interests in Antarctica are concerned, I must say that I do not have a good answer on this. I owe you an answer, which is our interests and actions there. But I'd be happy to bring myself up to speed and come back to you with that answer later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U87	Thank you. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U88	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I've listened and watched your interviews and turned out to be in the last few weeks. I have never noticed a radical change of direction in Estonian foreign policy. Listening to your speech here today, too, it seems that you will continue the same initiatives that previous ministers have taken, even the same initiative of the three seas that Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, along with the President and the previous Foreign Minister, was carrying. However, from the very first day, your critics have said that you are going to bring about a very big change and to destroy the work of previous ministers. I haven't seen these changes so far. Your statements have been competent, balanced and restrained. Are you planning some kind of big change of direction we haven't heard from yet, or how do you justify it? What is the situation, then, would you explain to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U89	Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for these questions. Very comprehensive issues. Indeed, I have already stressed from my first working days that Estonia's foreign policy is steady and consistent, and I am not planning any significant changes. I don't see why. The aim of Estonia's foreign policy and security policy is to ensure Estonia's security and the Estonian External Action Service operates within this framework. While we talk more generally and in the longer term, the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has adopted the "Estonian Foreign Policy Development Plan 2030." It will look forward to ten years from today, and on this basis, we will carry out our activities at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Its principles are as follows: to ensure the security of Estonia, to strengthen the foreign economy and to ensure that Estonians everywhere feel that the Estonian state stands for them. Indeed, I am not planning any major changes in this. However, there may be some changes in the details or changes that result from the influence of the foreign policy environment. It is certainly extremely important that Estonian foreign policy is reviewed from time to time according to what is happening in our external environment, what are the hazards that have changed and what are the new opportunities. This work will all continue, and that is what I stated in my speech, we will soon take one strategy or another to the government, so that we can systematically discuss these issues and decide how best to proceed to Estonia. But the general principles remain as they have been in the Estonian state for the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U90	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U91	Thank you very much. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Your government has a cooperation agreement through a coalition partner with Russia's leading political power. It states that the parties rely on equal trust, partnership and long-term cooperation in the foreign policy directions of Estonia and Russia. The first point in this cooperation agreement says that the parties will carry out consultations and exchange information on topical issues in relations between Estonia and Russia and in a wider international context. They will show each other their experiences in executive agencies, political associations, cooperation and international relations. How do you plan to pursue this cooperation internationally, and is this something to do with supporting the new border agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U92	Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this important question. And here I would first like to refer to the position of the Centre Party on this matter. This has remained unchanged for years: there has been no real cooperation under the cooperation protocol and this protocol does not work accordingly. If part of your question concerned the impact of this protocol on Estonia's foreign policy, then I say that there is no such effect on Estonian foreign policy at the moment. This does not affect Estonia's possible negotiations with Russia on a border agreement or any other matter. We also saw that the Centre Party was in the coalition with the various political parties of the Riigikogu for the last four years, and at that time Estonia's foreign policy was the same as it was before. Estonia was a successful President of the Council of the European Union, the Estonian government successfully took Estonia to the UN Security Council and several activities took place to strengthen allied relations with the allies that are important to Estonia. These activities have all continued over the years, despite the Central Party having this agreement with the United Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U93	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U94	Thank you. Marko Mihkelson, member of the Reform Party, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, compared our good NATO and European partner, Hungary, with Russia, on the Vikerraadio programme "Extend." This is one of the worst statements ever made about any of our allies. Such slander violates our good relations with Hungary and undoubtedly also Estonia's international reputation, especially if it brings out the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. On 26 January, Mihkelson wrote on social media: "I want to offer support to the new Foreign Minister, Eva-Maria Liimets, in shaping our foreign policy. " In today's presentation, where you spoke about the importance of bilateral relations in our region, you mentioned the Baltic and Nordic countries, but not Hungary or Poland. Is this what the foreign policy of the new government will be, and what support will such irresponsible and divisive positions of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs offer you in shaping our foreign policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U95	Thank you very much for these questions, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. The question was multifaceted. I will perhaps start with Poland, because Poland is an extremely important ally for Estonia in NATO. When we are talking about strengthening the east route in NATO, Poland has been an extremely active Member State on this issue, and for Estonia, allied relations with Poland are very important. For Estonia, relations with Poland are also very important in view of our economic cooperation. Very many Estonian companies have interests in the Polish market. We have seen Estonian IT companies that have invested in Poland. Here are the very multifaceted interests of cooperation with Poland. And traditionally Estonia has also had very good relations with Poland. Estonia has traditionally had very good relations with our tribal people, Hungary, and there is certainly no question about that. Even if we may disagree with all the questions about the rule of law in Poland and Hungary, it is certainly extremely important that there is a dialogue on the rule of law within the European Union in which Member States can discuss this issue among themselves. Of course, we consider it important that compliance with the rule of law continues in all the Member States of the European Union. I am very grateful to all members of the Riigikogu who have supported me in foreign policy during the first few weeks, either through messages or direct contact. I think that members of the Riigikogu can certainly contribute very much to the promotion of foreign policy and cooperation with other countries. And I am very grateful for this cooperation, both for one and the other, as well as for the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with whom we have had several constructive discussions on foreign policy issues. I believe that this cooperation will continue to be fruitful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U96	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U97	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs! You mentioned the need for closer relations between the European Union and NATO, and I therefore have a question on Belarus. President Lukashenko, in spite of his Russian-flird, has, of course, maintained some autonomy in Belarus, has not allowed in bases, etc. If you believe Izvestija, which is a newspaper close to the Kremlin, the Russians are now building a new logistics base in Belarus. They usually make these bases so they stay. We, together with the Member States of the European Union, were very strongly protesting against the results of the presidential elections in Belarus. Now, obviously, there has been a change of direction in Lukashenko's mind. We are now in a very bad security policy situation instead of charity, because closing Suwałki Corridor is even easier than it is now when Russian bases are created in Belarus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U98	Mr. Reitelmann, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U99	Please tell me whether the Icelandic Square and the Defence Forces General Staff are also communicating with each other in the transmission of messages and in the implementation of policies. Because it is clear that the steps taken by one authority will be counterproductive, which will once again affect the other institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U100	Thank you very much for this important question. Of course, Estonia cares very much about our security issues and issues. We are certainly concerned about the movement of Russian troops near our eastern border, either by moving them directly closer to our borders on Russian territory, by organising exercises, or by moving troops to other countries in our neighbourhood. I am not familiar with the information you referred to in the details, but as regards cooperation between the Icelandic Square and the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence, this is of course there and will continue in order to ensure the security of Estonia. Estonia has very strong institutions, such as the Foreign Intelligence Board and others, who have been set up and called upon to carry out such preliminary work so that information concerning the security of the Estonian state is guaranteed to the government and members of the government. It's all work. Thanks for the information. It certainly needs to be looked at, but I do not know how to go into more detail here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U101	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs! Foreign policy activity in the European bubble is very commendable and Parliament's delegations have also played a role in this cooperation. We are working together with the parliamentary assemblies of the various regions. And I have personally had the most memorable emotionally memorable participation in the annual meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea region (PABSEC). Estonia is known to have only one foreign policy at a time. It is in this plan that I am interested in your views on the three sea initiatives. What is the substantive and strategic interest of Estonian foreign policy in three marine initiatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U103	Thank you very much for this very important question. The initiative of the three seas is today a five-year-old initiative, and there are a number of important aspects for Estonia. For Estonia, it was extremely important that, at the end of last year, at the time of the virtual summit in Estonia, three marine investment funds were launched, to which very many countries have already contributed, including the United States. Through this investment fund, the aim is to increase investment in infrastructure projects, both digital and physical. It is extremely important that this fund is launched and thus contributes to the economic growth of our region. One of the aims of this initiative is to help boost growth in Central and Eastern Europe so that it can catch up with the economic growth and success of the western Member States. Another very important issue is the strengthening of allied relations within this initiative, i.e. relations with the US and also the involvement of Germany. Estonia considers it important that this initiative should provide systematic support for the implementation of projects and the organisation of work. Estonia has supported the idea that this initiative could also have its own secretariat, who will ensure that this activity is consistent there. These would be briefly the principles that I would like to present here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U104	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Good Foreign Minister, thank you for your excellent presentation. My question, however, concerns the corona epidemic. As we know, the corona is not only in Estonia, but also in other parts of the world. Very many Estonian citizens are scattered in different countries. What is the experience of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in helping Estonians in other countries? What are the specific activities? And what kind of questions have the State Department been addressed to?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U106	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, the consular field and the service of the people of Estonia are an extremely important topic and issue for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The activities of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs have indeed been very different in the last year. When the corona crisis began, very many, thousands of Estonian people were either because of work or because of travel abroad. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched a 24-hour secretariat to help the people of Estonia back from different areas. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs took advantage of its external contacts with other countries, for example by helping Estonians from Indonesia to get on a Czech plane that brought back the Czech Republic, or by organising joint flights with the Baltic States to Spain to bring back the people trapped there, or by negotiating with Poland to allow transit through Poland to Estonian citizens. So there were a wide variety of activities how Estonia contributed to returning our people home at this very topical moment of crisis. Today, when this travel is no longer so topical in Europe or globally, such ad-hoc secretariats have, of course, completed their work. Now we're doing the usual work. Within this framework, Estonian diplomats update the Trip Smart portal every week to provide Estonians with current information about as many countries as possible, so that people can know under what conditions and where they can travel. It is certainly important to bear in mind that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not currently recommend travel, as the situation is still extremely dynamic due to the epidemic. It is never known how things can change in a few weeks and put people back in a difficult situation so that they cannot easily return home. It would certainly be much more difficult for us to provide such assistance now, because such joint return and return flights are not currently available in Europe or in other countries. But if a person is in trouble somewhere, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, of course, open to think about a person's concerns and to help find the best way to get back home.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U107	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U108	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! I am pleased to welcome you to the position of Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you also for the explicit speech and views on Ukraine and Russia, as well as on security policy at all. You have stated in your speech and answers that we also have a clear initiative towards Asia, both for the development of business diplomacy and for the creation of trade relations and educational relations. We have opened embassies in, for example, Singapore, South Korea, etc. But now there is one problem: the international situation is tightening around the Republic of China. You did not talk about this here, but I would like to ask what our policy is about the tensions that have exploded around Taiwan. They have now culminated even in the threat of war in the People's Republic of China.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U109	Thank you very much for this important question. Good relations with all countries, including, of course, China, are extremely important for Estonia, and Estonia has promoted these relations accordingly. Estonia has recognised one Chinese policy and there is no intention to change it. Estonia is undoubtedly concerned about the human rights situation in China. Estonia is concerned about restricting freedom of expression in China, it is in virtual space or physical space, and Estonia deals with these issues. Estonia has raised these issues in human rights organisations. Estonia also supports the human rights dialogue between the European Union and China. It is extremely important that this format continues and these issues are raised with China. These are the places where Estonia considers it important to raise these issues. Estonia is certainly concerned about how the human rights situation is, then, damaged in Taiwan or in another region, China.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U110	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U111	Good manager! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I would be interested in the Hungarian issue, and you did not answer much of my benchmate's question about it. All these European Union sanctions and attempts and talk about our home media, that Hungary is a pariah, i.e. we have been released together, but now the Hungarians have left the free world. However, Hungary has acted independently. Well, recently, because of the failed supplies of vaccines, he has introduced both Chinese and Russian chorona vaccines, has not allowed a change in gender, at parliamentary level, and has consistently stood up for his rights. Do you, as current Minister of Foreign Affairs, consider Hungary to be a pariah? And will Estonia continue to take positions and point its finger at Hungary, up to sanctions, based on Hungary's behaviour as appropriate to the sovereign state, although yes, in the composition of the European Union? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U112	Thank you very much for this follow-up in the context of Hungary. Hungary is an ally of Estonia in NATO and a partner in the European Union, it has been, and it will continue. As far as the rule of law is concerned, it is extremely important for Estonia that the fundamental principles of the country are democratic values and the recognition of the rule of law. Estonia has always considered it important to defend these principles, either in a Member State of the European Union or in a third country. Therefore, it is certainly a concern for Estonia and also for me that Hungary has decided to withdraw from these principles. This issue has been discussed in the European Union and Estonia has participated in these discussions. As I said before, it is extremely important for us that these discussions continue in the European Union. To this end, there are appropriate mechanisms in the form of Article 7 in which this dialogue will be conducted. How are our future relations with Hungary going? I think our bilateral relations with Hungary will continue to be fine. That is what diplomacy is for us to promote relations with countries even if we do not agree on certain issues exactly. When we talk about cooperation in NATO, NATO has been able to be united even when there have been differences between countries. It is certainly extremely important for Estonia that NATO continues to be united, despite the fact that countries may have different opinions on certain issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U113	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs! I, too, thank you for this thorough report. Unfortunately, you focused more on principles that we have more or less stable, but less on current policy issues. I liked that you emphasise the need for a value-based policy and the common front of the Baltic States and Nordic countries in the European Union, etc. Indeed, the Baltic-Scandinavian Union has now emerged, from Sweden to bad Poland. In this sense, I was surprised in a bad way by the process of 2 February Navalny, where 14 of our allies were represented, including Sweden, Poland and both Baltic states, but there was one gap in this Baltic-Scandinavian chain, Estonia. How do you explain that? On the other hand, I appreciate that Estonia was represented in the next process, but I am interested in this important process, which was on 2 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U115	Thank you very much for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. There's only one answer to that. First of all, I would like to stress that Estonia is very closely monitoring democratic processes in Russia and both physically and virtually. In this process, there was joint coordination with the European countries on how many people go there. One of the motives for this was the epidemiological situation in Russia, and it was decided that there would be no representatives from all Member States. The Estonian diplomat was also absent from the session that day and did not participate directly in the process, but we followed this event virtually.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U116	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U117	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! As far as Poland and Hungary are concerned, according to independent democracy studies, their place of democracy is higher in the table than in Belgium and France. I strongly recommend that you get acquainted with this before you join this gang and become involved in the bullying of Hungary and Poland. Secondly, I note that such a high level of public support for governments cannot be found throughout the European Union as in Hungary and Poland. In essence, this is a harassment of sovereign governments. The Polish Minister for Justice has said that this is a restriction of radical sovereignty. This was the case when the European Union wanted to link the rule of law to the re-package. What positive initiatives would you like to develop towards these countries? Here you go! Do you have a point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U118	Thank you very much for these important questions. Among the positive initiatives, I would first like to mention the three sea initiatives. Poland, together with Croatia, is taking the initiative. There are a wide range of activities that respond to the interests of the region, to the interests of each Member State and to closer cooperation between these countries. Hungary is also involved in this process. The second issue, which is certainly extremely important for Estonia, concerns security. Good and close alliances with all NATO's allies, including Poland and Hungary, are important to Estonia. Poland's role in guaranteeing the security of our region has already been mentioned briefly before, which is undoubtedly one of the most important, as well as relations between Poland and the United States, with the result that there is a likelihood that US troops will secure their presence in Poland. These are issues that are very important for Estonia. Estonia will certainly strengthen its relations with Poland, but Estonia will not interfere with the internal issues of these countries and will continue to cooperate in those areas that are of interest to us or of mutual interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U119	Rene Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U120	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for your presentation. I would like to know your position on the possible construction of the Tallinn-Helsinki, Helsinki-Tallinn tunnel, where the possible raising of Chinese capital has also been discussed. How could this affect Estonia's foreign policy in the future, if at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U121	Thank you very much for this question. It is certainly extremely important that the best connections between Estonia and Finland are ensured. Which one is most economical for Estonia, I cannot answer today. I would like to leave this issue to the discussion of the authorities and the interest groups involved in economic development, infrastructure development and economic cooperation. It is certainly important for Estonia that the tunnel and infrastructure that is being created be in the interests of Estonia's security, but which other factors affect it, that is yes, indeed, a broader issue that I would not discuss in my foreign policy presentation today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U122	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for a good and interesting presentation. I am sorry that this morning's debate at the start of the sitting will overshadow it a little, because I have the feeling that the same things that we have talked about today have been unwittingly harmed here. It seems that tactical consideration, the desire for tactical victory, has caused a little damage in a strategic sense. This is unfortunate and overshadows your very good presentation. You spoke about Belarus and said quite clearly that Estonia intends to pursue the development of democracy in Belarus. This is not an easy task and is also very ambitious. Would you be so kind as to describe what tools we have at our disposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U124	Thank you. Yes, Estonia wants to contribute to the promotion of democracy in Belarus as far as possible, because of course Belarus is in the hands of Belarusians. But what are Estonia's opportunities? Estonia has the opportunity to speak up and bring this issue to the international arena. This is what Estonia has done. Estonia's previous government and foreign minister were extremely active in this matter. The last time on 22 January, the issue of Belarus was discussed in the UN Security Council's open debate. With the help of Estonia, the leader of the Belarusian opposition, Tsikhanovskaya, with whom I myself spoke on the eve of the solidarity day on 7 February. He was very grateful to Estonia for the fact that with the help of Estonia the Belarusian opposition has been able to present its concerns in the international arena. The second area or topic where Estonia can contribute is Estonia's development aid programmes. Between 2021 and 2023, Estonia has the intention to support the efforts of Belarus to the value of EUR 800000. It is aimed in particular at higher education and higher technical education, as well as the introduction of smart ICT teaching tools in Belarus. Estonia considers it extremely important to help students who have been persecuted for political reasons in Belarus to continue their studies. I think I will limit myself to these two examples here, but there are other examples of how we really contribute to the democratic process in Belarus through practical actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U125	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U126	Thank you. What is the difference between internal and foreign policy effectiveness, and how can we highlight this in the case of the Estonian example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U127	I'm sorry, I didn't hear that question. Can you repeat that, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U128	A microphone for Uno Kaskpeit, please! Yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U129	What is the difference between internal and foreign policy effectiveness, and how can we highlight this in the case of the Estonian example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U130	Thank you for that question. I think it is extremely important for a small country like Estonia to be effective both in domestic policy and in foreign policy. They cannot be viewed separately, because Estonia's foreign policy is actually based on Estonia's domestic policy interests. If it has been decided within the Estonian state that Estonia's security must be guaranteed, Estonia's foreign policy is a means of achieving this goal. If it has been decided within the Estonian state that it is important for Estonians or Estonia to protect fundamental rights and freedoms, then Estonia's foreign policy is to expand this value area around us. I see that these two areas must work in this synergy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U131	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs! First of all, let me give you the strength to wish you in a new position of responsibility. Due to the geopolitical location of Estonia, our foreign policy is in many respects a security policy. And we have two major problems with our allies here. First of all, the presence of our allied forces in the Baltics does not provide us with a credible military deterrent at the moment. Secondly, the leadership structure of the alliance in the Baltic States does not guarantee us that, in the event of a war, we can effectively run military joint operations here. I have this question for you: what concrete steps are you going to take to improve the situation on these two very important issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U133	Thank you very much for these important issues, which are indeed critical from the point of view of Estonia's security! Estonia will certainly continue to focus at least 2.3% of its gross domestic product on Estonia's defence costs, thus demonstrating that Estonia is committed to protecting its security, and also to setting an example for other allies. Estonia has been very effective, Estonia receives very well the allies that are located here, and Estonia has provided a very good infrastructure in Tapa, where our allies are present, and also through the construction of the Ämari airport. Estonia will continue to set up defence costs with various activities. But here I really wouldn't go into any more details about what the Ministry of Defence is doing under the direction of the Minister of Defence and how exactly we strengthen our defence capabilities in Estonia. As far as cooperation in NATO is concerned, this year will be the NATO summit, where Estonia will actively contribute to NATO's continued unity and NATO's focus on transatlantic defence and security, not only would it go hand in hand with discussions on new threats. For Estonia, it is extremely important that, should it be decided to revisit the strategic concept and open up this debate, the security and defence interests of Estonia would be protected in this new debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U134	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much for your presentation. My question is two-part and concerns the unity of the European Union in a situation where national approaches to restricting the rights and freedoms of citizens of the Member States are different in the context of the Crown Virus pandemic. What effect do you see on intra-EU cooperation in this medium-term perspective? And the second question concerns our security, which, as a small country, we guarantee in many ways with the existence of allies. Has increasing the presence of the Allied Forces been discussed in your ministry, whether it is necessary, feasible for us and what to do if the answer is yes? This issue is also partly driven by the likely foreign policy direction of our great allies, including possible transfers of troops in Europe. Perhaps this is a question of border closures and allied forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U136	Thank you very much for the two important and weighty questions. I will start with the subject of European Union cooperation. The closure of borders has certainly been extremely regrettable, but since its aim has been to protect public health in countries, of course, the health of their own people is extremely important for each country, it is understandable. It has been important for Estonia, together with many other countries, to increase confidence measures, i.e. to ensure that people who travel do not carry the virus with them. Estonia will continue its work in this direction. Estonia has also come up here with an innovative solution which is currently being tested at the WHO and which concerns an electronic passport with information on the health of the passenger. Will it harm relations between European countries in the long term? However, I would not be so convinced of that. Rather, we have seen that Europe has kept one during this crisis. For example, when we discussed the vaccination plan, the countries of the European Union decided jointly to give power to the European Commission, which would help to ensure that the Member States are able to benefit from uniform vaccinations and move ahead with vaccination plans in their own countries, which in turn will ensure that, if this process succeeds, national borders can also be reopened. Another example would be the debate of the European leaders in July, which jointly adopted a stimulating and stimulating recovery package for the European economy. We saw there that the leaders of the countries of the European Union came very quickly to the decision on how to boost the European economy together. I think these are the indicators that show that, despite this difficult time, Europe is not divided, but is looking together for solutions. As regards the presence of the Allied forces in Estonia, this is an extremely important issue for Estonia. For Estonia, bilateral relations with the United Kingdom, which is the leading state of the Allied Forces in Estonia, are also extremely important. Now I'm sorry, but I don't remember whether the other half of this question was about the Allied Forces or... Is it possible to withdraw this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U137	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U138	No, it's not. Okay, then I'll finish here. These relations with the Allied forces are important. It is important for Estonia that good relations with the United Kingdom continue now that this country has left the European Union, both in the field of defence and in the area of security.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U139	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U140	Minister, unfortunately, I did not get an answer to my first question, so I would still ask you to reply specifically. What is the reason why your attitude towards the territorial integrity of the Republic of Estonia is different from your attitude towards the territorial integrity of Ukraine or Georgia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U141	Thank you very much for this question. I am based on the fact that negotiations have taken place with Russia on the points of the border agreement, and in 2014 it was agreed where this border runs. This border has been granted to national parliaments for approval. As far as Ukraine and Georgia are concerned, in these cases we are talking about events that started in the early 1990s in the case of Georgia. And last we saw military action in 2008, when Russian troops secured their presence in Abkhazia and South Ossetia with military action. And when we talk about Ukraine, we are talking about the events of 2014, when Russian troops annexed the Crimean peninsula with military action. These are different events in this sense. Estonia attaches great importance to the territorial integrity of these countries, but also to Estonia's own territorial integrity. In order to ensure the security of the Estonian state and to consolidate our territorial integrity, it would certainly be extremely important for the border agreement between Estonia and Russia to be concluded and ratified in both parliaments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U142	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I asked my first question, I foreshadowed your undisputed competence, but unfortunately you did not answer my first question, essentially, concerning the conflict between COVID-19 vaccines in Northern Ireland and Ireland and also in Germany's activities. You said everything else, but not what has been linked to this issue. As a result of the above, the trustworthiness of your competence in my eyes gave me a little bit of a sway. Maybe my question was a little too complicated, too. I am therefore asking a simpler question. Are you personally in favour of inviting Putin to the congress of Finno-Ugric peoples? Be sure to justify your answer more broadly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U144	Thank you very much for these questions. As far as the forthcoming congress of Finno-Ugric peoples is concerned, it is certainly extremely important that representatives of the countries in which indigenous peoples live participate in the congress. It is very important that the rights of indigenous peoples are protected and their cultural and linguistic functioning is supported. Estonia has long supported tribal peoples through its foreign policy activities. As early as the late 1990s, Estonia began to support indigenous peoples' funds financially, being a relatively poor country at the time. So in this sense, it is certainly extremely important that the forthcoming congress of Finno-Ugric peoples contributes to the continuation of the cultural continuity and linguistic capacity of Finno-Ugric peoples in their language and that Estonia also contributes to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U145	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Of course, I got the answer to my last question. Thanks for that. Let's hope that once this thing is clear, we'll know how it's gonna go. But the second question I would have is that the corona virus has become a global problem, and we can't get around it or over it. The problem is also that if it infects our defence capabilities and allies, there is also a serious concern. And here's my question: have you thought about how we should behave towards our diplomatic corps and our allies who have come to us? What about their vaccination, should we make it a priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U147	Thank you very much for these important questions. Indeed, this current epidemic is affecting a wide range of activities. And it has certainly damaged the functioning of the Estonian External Action Service, mainly because one of the main activities of the External Action Service is communication with people and virtual communication is an emergency, but indeed does not ensure that all the objectives that are actually assigned to foreign policy are met. A plan has been adopted in Estonia to vaccinate target groups working in critical areas. The Estonian External Action Service is also out there in its own order. When will our vaccination process reach the Estonian External Action Service, I am unfortunately unable to say this at the moment. But we deal with this every day, and we have also been in direct contact with the Ministry of Social Affairs so that we stay in line and get our people vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U148	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U149	Yeah, I have a procedural question. Due to the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, a member of the government must answer questions from members. And my question was this: are you personally in favour of inviting Putin to the congress of Finno-Ugric peoples, and what is the justification for this? There was absolutely no answer here except that the Finno-Ugric Congress is a very nice thing. My question was what was the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on inviting Putin, but this question was not answered. A member of the government must answer the question. I think it would be the duty of the Vice-Chairman in the Riigikogu to intervene in a situation where a member of the government fails to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U150	Thank you. The Minister will answer the question within the limits of his best knowledge and abilities. The next questioner is Paul Puustusmaa and Paul Puustusmaa, the minister now has the opportunity to answer Mr Grünthal's question by reply. Let's hope this happens. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U151	Thank you very much. Good minister! The answers to the Ruuben Kaalepi question, your references to the need for ratification of the new border treaty, and also to § 122 of the Constitution, make me quite confused. I have to ask what your foreign policy understanding is connected with our occupied eastern territories, our Inger, Petseri County, and whether these are then territories that have been illegally transferred from the Republic of Estonia. Is the ratification of the new border treaty a free assignment of Estonian territories to Russia or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U152	Thank you very much for these questions. I'm sorry if I missed your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Mr Grünthal! Yes, I consider it important that the leaders of all countries are invited to the Congress of Indigenous Peoples to discuss the issues of how countries guarantee the protection of the rights of indigenous peoples in their own country. I will move on to the issues relating to the border agreement and refer here to the text of the border agreement agreed in 2014, which is the text of the border agreement agreed between the two countries. As far as the state border is concerned, according to § 22 of the State Border Act, the temporary control line is a continuous thoughtline and the vertical plane along it, which separates the Estonian territory under Estonia's jurisdiction from the part that does not comply with it. On these principles, this agreement has been concluded, and with it progress has been made to anchor the Estonian border, yes, I support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U153	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U154	Thank you, Mr President. I really do have a procedural question again. Dear Minister, The President of the Riigikogu drew your attention to the need to answer the questions as they are asked and gave you the opportunity to answer my question now whether you personally advocate inviting Putin to the congress of Finno-Ugric peoples, that is, a second chance within the framework of the question of Paul Puustusmaa. Is it possible to finally find out what your personal position on inviting Putin is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U155	Thank you. Officials of personal positions shall not be required to express directly. The rules of procedure do not require this. But, of course, all representatives have this opportunity. Oudekki Loone, is it a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U156	Absolutely a procedural question. Are we going to continue in such a way that some members of the Riigikogu are able to ask four questions and others can only ask two questions? Have we reschedule this once in a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U157	No, it's not. The rules of procedure still provide for only two issues, as we have agreed, and the number of procedural questions in the law of limited home and working arrangements is not. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U158	Thank you. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Each sovereign state must pursue its own national and national interests in its internal and external policies. It's an indisputable imperative. However, you reject this principle because you said in your speech that Estonia's strategy for shaping European Union policy must be yes-policy. In other words, a policy that ignores our interests, always agrees with everything and pushes others, regardless of whether it is beneficial to Estonia or, rather, harmful or even destructive. Are you suggesting a similar yes policy and acceptance of everything for our partners, such as Latvia, Lithuania, France, Germany, Italy and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U159	Thank you very much for this question and for the reference to Mr Lennart Meri's quote. Yes policy in the European Union does not mean that Estonia agrees with all the issues, all the issues. On the contrary, as you pointed out at the beginning of your question, Estonia is based on its foreign and security policy, it is in the European Union, NATO, international organisations or bilateral relations, Estonia's own interests and principles. These principles Estonia has based and proceeds from. Yes-policy means that we are actively talking about issues that are of interest to us, and that is what is important for Estonia. It is not that we are not monitoring how these questions are going, we are not talking about them, but later these decisions affect us in such a way that we have not been able to say the word. This is the aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U160	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U161	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, you reiterated the importance of value-based foreign policy on several occasions today. The forces supporting the independence of the Catalans took the majority in Parliament in the elections on Sunday, and they obviously begin to do the will of their constituents and move the process of independence of Catalonia back into motion. What happened last time, we all remember very well: the Spanish police intervened, people seeking independence were brutally beaten on the streets, and ultimately the leaders seeking independence were also sentenced to prison. We are not exactly saying this, but within the European Union we are dealing with political prisoners sentenced for quite a long time. If, now, such a process should start again and a repressive procedure against people seeking independence will also be launched, whether Estonia should remain a spectator, should remain silent as at the time, or we should remember here...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U163	... although we cannot compare with Estonia's release from the Russian occupation, there are certain moral parallels here. I'd like to know if...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U165	... in the new left-liberal government's mind...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U166	Every member of the Riigikogu has one minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U167	... the nations should have the right to independence and whether the countries should also have the power, for example, to leave the European Union freely when they joined it in the same way in their own time. And not revenge and petty...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U168	Dear colleague, the question has been going on for over two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U169	Thank you very much for raising this important issue to Europe. I have to admit, I had a little bit of a slip of that question. I hope my answer still answers your question. It is certainly extremely important that all the Member States of the European Union actually set an example of how the rule of law is respected in a Member State, how freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of the media and so on are guaranteed. Therefore, the detention of political prisoners referred to by you is certainly not appropriate, which Spain will have to deal with if such circumstances are there. As far as the exit from the European Union is concerned, we have just seen, in the example of the United Kingdom, that it is entirely voluntary if a Member State so wishes. In this sense, I do not see in any way that this should be different from that in the case of the United Kingdom for another country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U170	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U171	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You have mentioned in many of your interviews that human rights and the protection of civil rights and freedoms are very close to your heart. Such an attitude honors you. As we know, the President of the Republic rejected the new External Action Service Act adopted by the Riigikogu, justifying it precisely by the lack of equal treatment of diplomats in the light of the Cohabitation Act. He found that the law on the External Action Service did not comply with the Constitution and did not treat diplomats equally. However, this law needs to be dealt with, with a wide range of important issues that ensure the sustainability of the Estonian External Action Service. As a minister, do you agree to remove the corresponding shortcomings, to which the President also referred, from the law and bring the draft back to the Riigikogu in order to ensure equal treatment for the families of all Estonian diplomats?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U172	Thank you very much for this extremely important question to the Estonian External Action Service. Indeed, the Estonian External Action Service can only be strong if the life of diplomats working in the Estonian External Action Service has been supported by legislation. How are things going with the External Action Service Act? It has not been removed from the procedure at the moment, it continues to be in the 'work', and it is certainly very important that these issues are resolved. In addition to this law on the External Action Service, there are a number of issues that can be resolved alongside the law, i.e. through implementing acts. We will certainly work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs first to resolve the issues that can be resolved through implementing legislation to strengthen the Estonian External Action Service. We then come back to the law on the External Action Service in order to resolve the conceptual issues that motivated the failure to adopt the law on the External Action Service last summer. On these issues, I believe that it is absolutely necessary to come back to the Riigikogu. But to do so, I expect these processes to move forward, under the leadership of the Chancellor of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, before you can provide a more detailed answer to this question as to when and how it will proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U173	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now apologise to all members of the Riigikogu who have registered for questions. Unfortunately, the time has been agreed for the Minister to answer the questions, and we can no longer accept any more questions. Thank you to the Minister for his presentation and answers. Before we move on to the agenda, we need to make a single vote, because the Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed that the speaking time be set until the end of the sitting and, if necessary, that the negotiating time should be extended until 14:00. The Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to extend the working time of the Riigikogu plenary session until the agenda is exhausted today, but no longer than 14 o'clock. I shall put the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to the vote. If it is supported, the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also been accepted. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to extend the working time of the Riigikogu plenary on 16 February until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U174	64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no votes against, one abstention, so the proposal was supported. Let's move on to today's agenda. I now ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to be the rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U175	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Guests! The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has played a central role over the years as a designer and influencer of Estonian foreign policy, because the stronger the foreign policy common part of our democratic and parliamentary republic, the better the interests and security of Estonia in the world are guaranteed. This principle has been repeatedly emphasised in this speech chair and confirmed by real action in foreign policy. Continuity is the cornerstone of Estonia's foreign policy, and the current composition of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also stands for this. For the first time, a foreign policy debate was held in today's format here in the Riigikogu Hall 27 years ago. I would remind you that at the beginning of 1994 there were 2,500 other Russian officers and soldiers on the territory of Estonia, we were just starting our way towards NATO and the European Union, and it was necessary to obtain a visa for travelling to Finland. In this reality, at the first foreign policy debate held on 17 February 1994, the Foreign Minister and our colleague Jüri Luik of today stressed four principles in his speech on behalf of the government: "We must make better use of the opportunities available to increase and maintain the interest of the various countries in Estonia and find the most effective ways to ensure our existence in the minds of these countries. Secondly, I consider it important to focus more on Estonia's security. For every step of foreign policy, it is probably worth asking yourself whether these steps will strengthen or weaken our security. The third principle is that Estonia's foreign policy is more focused on Estonia's economic interests. The future of our country depends directly on Estonia's economic well-being, so the task of foreign policy is to ensure that we do not become economically dependent on any country and that Estonian goods have enough free markets. Fourthly, I would like to place greater emphasis on stability in international relations. If Estonia often changes its views, is inconsistent in its aspirations and tends to struggle, it will also not achieve its foreign policy targets." Luik then found it necessary to talk about the importance of Estonia's international image, saying: "Estonia is a small country, such as Switzerland, Denmark or the Netherlands, which exists largely in people's perception of these countries. The image of Estonia is created by every Estonian in contact with the outside world, especially parliamentarians, military and diplomats. We're trying not to ruin that picture." All these principles are equally important in Estonian foreign policy today, 27 years later. Although Estonia has been a Member State of the European Union and NATO for 17 years now and our diplomatic experience is much greater, our foreign policy remains consistently on three main pillars. These are ensuring the security of our citizens, ensuring economic well-being and keeping close ties with the global Estonian community. The Estonian foreign policy development plan approved last year by the government until 2030 underlines that Estonia's foreign policy task is to ensure the security and well-being of the state and its citizens and to protect their interests in international relations. External policy is coherent and interlinked with other areas, its overall success depends on the clarity and functioning of the cooperation principles of all actors, including the private, public and civil society sectors. The preparation and adoption of the foreign policy development plan was a good example of the substantive cooperation between the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which resulted in the publication of a strategic document that had found a broad joint section. It is the strengthening of strategic planning, the better planning of its resources, or foreign policy instruments, and the thought-out of tactical steps that will enable our small country to promote more pro-active foreign policy in a diverse environment of international threats and challenges. Activity doesn't mean running in all directions at once. Our foreign policy steam must not go solely to projects that are attractive in current policy or to attempts to resolve crises that are far beyond our control. It is clear that we cannot, and do not have to, lead or associate on every international issue. Considerable choices must be made. And in every decision, it is important to ask whether and how it works to achieve our own foreign policy objectives. Priorities must be set on the basis of the wider support of our foreign policy: the European Union, NATO and strategic relations with the United States. In recent years, much attention has been paid to relations with the United States. That's positive. At the same time, it is important that we also be able to increase activity in Berlin, Paris and other centres of influence of the European Union. It is important to strengthen bilateral and multilateral relations with the United Kingdom after Brexit. The regular audit of our diplomacy toolbox from international organisations and bilateral representations around the world to the Eastern Partnership Centre and development cooperation projects will contribute to increasing pro-activity. Estonia's foreign policy capabilities depend on how skillfully we are in terms of limited opportunities to link objectives to real activities. Regional or thematic strategies, such as the recently published Africa Strategy and the Asian strategy under development, will help to plan diplomatic resources more efficiently, while creating an opportunity to avoid politically sensitive international issues becoming domestic toxic. In Estonia's foreign policy, the depth of activities must be achieved in order to implement smart diplomacy, which is the ability to realise national interests in a way that does not get into a dangerous conflict with any other country, and the ability to navigate in a complex geopolitical reality with friends and allies convincingly involving them in order to protect their security more effectively. No matter how ambitious the goals are, and no matter how active we think of our foreign policy, without a strong and motivated External Action Service, without our experienced diplomats, that is not possible. Last year, there was a lot of tension over the procedure for the new draft law on the External Action Service, which ended up with the President's veto. The new Foreign Minister, as well as the new Chancellor of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will have a good opportunity to ease the tensions here and focus on solving the real problems that exist. The openness of the foreign service is necessary, but it must not undermine the career diplomacy model that served Estonia well. In recent years, several career diplomats have either left or have been forced to leave. Along with people, experience, which is a great asset in diplomacy, has been lost. The main foundation of smart diplomacy is well-motivated people. This includes professional career planning, which at the same time would help to strengthen the most important capabilities of our foreign policy and create a more relaxed development environment for diplomats. Ladies and gentlemen, Our diplomacy at all levels has been severely suppressed by the corona apandemia over the last year. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, made its last foreign trip so far in February last year. The external delegations of the Riigikogu have also been distanced from last spring. Only the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe called Strasbourg in part last month for the usual plenary session. It must be bad for a small country to shut down like that. Even in normal circumstances, it is difficult for us to make our voice heard and to get the attention of the great powers, which is now. At the same time, international dynamics have not stagnated. Estonia's views must be constantly disseminated and our interests protected. Would it not be appropriate, however, in the national vaccination plan to consider the injection of first line diplomats in order to enable Estonia to restore a vitally important external communication more quickly? However, lack of direct communication does not mean that there is no communication at all. Technology has enabled us to create a habit that remains even when travel is fully restored. Web meetings have created speed and flexibility that had not been assessed before. For example, thanks to technology, last year the meetings of the Foreign Affairs Committees of the three Baltic States managed to revive. Since 2015, three countries were unable to reconcile the calendar so as to find a way to meet physically. Our online meeting, which took the initiative of the Commission in December, showed that we could have a nice meeting and deal with the issues. Just last week, together with a Latvian and Lithuanian colleague, we decided to make the on-line meetings of committee chairmen regular in order to share information and, if necessary, to harmonise our foreign policy steps. However, the former chairman of the Commission in Enn Front, whom I thank here for the very good long-term cooperation, had the opportunity, together with my Baltic colleagues, to meet on-line with Gregory Meeks, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the US House of Representatives. It agreed on future meetings as well as joint actions to support Ukraine, Belarus, Georgia and other Eastern Partnership countries. On a web-based basis, for example, our annual meeting with Finnish colleagues has taken place in recent months, but also international formats such as the meeting of the presidents of the NB-8 Foreign Affairs Committees or the Foreign and Security Policy Conferences organised by the Presidency of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 August last year, at its extraordinary session, the Riigikogu adopted a statement entitled "In support of democracy and civil society in Belarus." 92 delegates voted in favour. This statement was caused by the massive counterfeiting of the results of the presidential elections in Belarus and the violent repression by the authorities of peaceful protests. The Belarusian authorities, led by the non-legitimate President, Alyaksandr Lukashenka, have tried to silence the public's protest spirit with repression. There are about 300 political prisoners in Belarus. There are constant arrests and dismissals. People are intimidated in every possible way, including by taking children away from single parents. However, all of this has not silenced national awakenings and protests. It is the birth of national self-consciousness and the defeat of fear that has given the development of Belarus a completely new dynamic. Svyatlana Tsikhanovskaya, leader of the Belarusian opposition who recently visited the Riigikogu, confirmed that despite widespread repression, the peaceful fight for free elections and democratic Belarus will continue. The aspirations of the Belarusian people for freedom have found great sympathy both in Estonia and elsewhere in the Western world. The sanctioning of the Lukashenko regime and, at the same time, the support of civil society are two levers in which the Western countries can influence the democratic development of Belarus as a European country. We must be prepared for a long and complex process, but it is the spirit of the Belarusians themselves that provides a solid basis for the irreversibility of development. One of Estonia's foreign policy priorities is to support Belarus, Ukraine and other Eastern Partnership countries through diplomatic steps as well as development cooperation programmes. This work must continue even more actively, as the success of these countries in creating and strengthening a democratic society depends directly on all regional security. The success of Belarus and Ukraine as open societies should be equally important for Russian citizens who wish to see an alternative to authoritarian and constantly threatening policies in their country's development. The events in Belarus have already affected the mood in Russia, too, when protests have taken place in many cities following the arrest and imprisonment of Alexei Navalnyi, who recovered from brutal poisoning. On this issue too, the Riigikogu has expressed its opinion: last night, at the initiative of 57 ambassadors, a statement was adopted "in support of the European Union's common foreign policy and the protection of civil society in Russia." Unfortunately, Russia has been gradually moving away from its international commitments years ago, let us not forget that it will soon be seven years since the annexation of Crimea and the beginning of Russia's aggression in Eastern Ukraine, which has created a situation in which relations between the West and Russia have reached the lowest point since the break-up of the Soviet Union. It has come so far that the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs threatened to break up relations with the European Union at all and played mentally with the rhetoric of preparing for war. In Moscow, no one seems to think, even in half a word, that Russia's own aggressive foreign policy is behind the increase in tension. In such a situation, it is extremely important that the Western countries carry out a rapid audit of the common Russian policy and develop a strategy that will enable us to cool the tensions that have grown without retreating from our principles. Strengthening transatlantic relations is essential in this respect, in order to avoid differences between allies in the formulation of effective policies. We must not forget that the worse relations between Russia and the West are, the more complicated our security environment is. Estonia's foreign policy capacity to shape Russian policy in cooperation with its allies is the more successful the better our relations with the neighbouring country to the east. This agenda is much wider than merely a deterrent level, covering issues from cross-border joint projects to the border agreement still pending ratification. It is in Estonia's interest to work with its allies to ensure that our relations with Russia are based on the principle of good neighbourliness. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia, as an open, innovative and forward-looking country in Northern Europe, is very well looking forward to our request to become an observer member of the Arctic Council. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has devoted a great deal of attention to this issue, among other things by ordering scientists to analyse the implications of the Arctic Council and the possibilities of an observer to promote our foreign policy in relations with Nordic neighbours, as well as with Russia, the US and Canada. At the end of January, a public meeting of the Commission took place, which introduced the period of application for observer status of the Arctic Council of Estonia. Even before the Spring Ministerial Meeting, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will carry out a presentation of the analysis requested. The Committee on Foreign Affairs will also pay more attention to the current state of implementation of the business diplomacy strategy during the spring session. The recent audit by the National Audit Office found a number of gaps in the coordination of our external trade policy and the progress towards the objectives set. Our aim is to get feedback from the government on steps that will allow us to better synchronise the activities of EAS and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' economic diplomats in supporting our entrepreneurs in foreign markets or bringing investments to Estonia. We will also put on the Commission's agenda in the coming weeks the development of the global Estonian programme and the presentation of the Special Envoy's activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U176	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity to ask questions to the rapporteur. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U177	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his very thorough answers. I did not have time to ask [his], fortunately I can ask the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Actually, my first question is better suited to this presentation. The reference to Estonia's long democratic process or democratic path was in the speech, as was the Eastern Partnership, which is a priority for us. That is why I would like to ask. I got the feeling that we have not done everything necessary and possible to support Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova and Georgia on their way to modern democracy. What should Estonia do or could do more in the coming years to take advantage of its experience and the specific role that we can play in the future of these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U178	Thank you, Riina, for this very important and important question, which could be answered for a very long time, but I will perhaps stop at a more important moment. I think that Estonia has been doing quite a lot over the years to support these countries, certainly longer than there is officially an Eastern Partnership policy. The Eastern Partnership policy will be known as the European Union's policy this year to be 12 years old, in 2009 the then Polish and Swedish Foreign Ministers Carl Bildt and Radek Sikorski took the lead in this policy at EU level. But Estonia's support for Ukraine and other countries in these democratic processes began far earlier than in 2009. If we look at the development cooperation programmes of recent years, how we have diplomatically raised and supported the concerns and wishes of these countries in international cooperation (even in my speech I referred to the activities of the Riigikogu even in the last year), then I believe that Estonia clearly stands out among the European Union and the Western countries at all. If you look at the development cooperation instruments that we have directed to Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and other countries, for a person, I believe, these numbers are quite the front line. It is not just a question of channelling funds into different programmes in order to receive a bird, but Estonia clearly perceives, perhaps better than many other Western countries, what concrete help these countries need in their current development, what support in international organisations and also in strengthening civil society, and in the implementation of the rule of law and principles in their societies. Estonia has a great deal to offer from its own experience, but it is certainly extremely important, as I emphasised in my speech, to do everything to ensure that these countries succeed. None of these countries, when we talk about Ukraine, Belarus or Moldova, has been subjected to the choices that the people have really made with dramatic revolutions, as we have perhaps experienced in Ukraine first and foremost, but also certainly in Georgia or in the ongoing popular revolution, which is continuing to roll in front of us in Belarus. The most important wish of the Belarusian people, expressed in the last 180 days and more after the presidential elections on 9 August, is, after all, an opportunity to make a free decision on our own future. What lies there, a very dangerous and challenging world can occasionally leave the concerns of these countries in the background. As a result, Estonia's role in raising these issues in international forums has also been very important in times of different governments. We will certainly continue this work in the future. Speaking of the support of the Riigikogu, I also stressed support for the statement made in support of democracy and civil society in Belarus in this very Chamber, where 92 delegates voted in favour of it. This is a very significant demonstration of the solidarity that exists in Estonia with regard to the development of these countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U179	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U180	Good manager and waitress! Exactly 30 years ago, on 11 February 1991 the Unrepresented Nations Organisation was established in the Hague Palace of Peace. This was largely a favor to our own man Linnart Mäll, who was also the leader of this organization for the first few years. My question now is this: how does the current government feel about the organization that our own man has created? By the way, the founding members were Estonia, Latvia, Georgia and others. You're saying now that the People's Revolution is rolling over Belarus. I remind you, using the same words, that they roll around the world in many parts of the world, as well as in those regions that cover over 300 million [people]. Currently there are 45 members of the Unrepresented Nations. My question is: how does the current government look at those 300 million who do not yet have their own country?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U181	Thank you. This is a very, very important question, precisely from this perspective, that the work that our common acquaintance Linnart Mäll did, he did in a spirited way and in many ways thanks to his very extensive contacts and also to his personal energy, in fact, this organisation received a great deal of attention. He certainly also played an inclusive role in the events that were born in our region at that time. In the 1990s, I myself had direct contact with, for example, the efforts of the people of Chechnya in the mid-1990s when they sought their freedom as they did Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Unfortunately, their history and their recent history are far more dramatic than ours. The same can be said of many other 300 million people you have mentioned who, either as different ethnic groups or as peoples, are in a situation where there is no status as a free state. After all, Estonia is certainly following its international policy [international law] and I believe that it is not only a question of how the current government or the composition of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu look at these issues, but for us the strength, validity and observance of international law by all those involved in international politics, including countries where problems exist, including what you mentioned, are of paramount importance. So, in any case, everything is based on the principles of international law on these issues as well. And if these nations want the country to be free and democratic, as we speak, for example, of the free will of the Belarusian people who have been in the hands of dictatorship for more than 26 years, then it is undoubtedly important for Estonia to monitor and support these activities, which are in full compliance with the right to self-determination and international law, above all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U182	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U183	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Marko! Actually, I had a question for the Foreign Minister, but I didn't get a chance to ask him, so I'm gonna ask you. In his speech with regard to our neighbouring countries, the Foreign Minister mentioned that we, as a country, must fully support democracy and freedom of opinion there. I fully agree with that. However, how can we view the fact that, at the same time, we are taking action in Estonia, under the leadership of the current government, to restrict this very freedom of opinion, to push through the so-called hate speech law, and that the amendment of the law is also intended to supplement the law on media[services], which also provides the green way to restrict and suppress freedom of opinion. Should the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other constitutional institutions, including the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which, as you say, has a major role to play in shaping foreign policy, perhaps use its position and opportunities rather to explain to its counterparts in the European Union that everything is very well in Estonia with freedom of opinion, freedom of expression and democracy and that we should not be pressured to adopt this directive or threaten with fines? Our Penal Code already contains the relevant points and, moreover, this directive is contrary to our constitution, which clearly states that there is no censorship in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U184	Thank you, Helle-Moonika! This question has certainly already caused quite a lot of passion in this Chamber, a perfectly normal democratic debate, and it is also after today's foreign policy debate. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will probably also be able to answer this question in subsequent briefings when the subject is raised. I can say in this way that, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have not conducted any hearings directly on this particular subject. However, if this issue has already been raised in this way, I think that we would also have every reason to look at the situation in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, perhaps more broadly, as to what is an important topic for Estonia, the expression of media freedom or the handling of media freedom, both among partners and internationally. After all, Estonia was also actively integrated with the international media freedom community under the leadership of the previous Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. As a former journalist, I can assure you that, in my opinion, throughout 30 years, the freedom of the Estonian media has been in a leading position throughout the world. This has been demonstrated by many comparative tables of countries around the world. I should say that the Estonian press is also very professional today, even though there are different reproaches. But I certainly do not see here that one of the fundamentals of Estonian democracy, that is, freedom of expression or freedom of the media, is somehow at risk. The question may be rather that, over the last few decades or even less, the technological revolution has created more channels through which, especially in the context of the common media or social media, it is much easier, and I say frankly, sometimes irresponsible to spread my views, appeals or opinions. I am not discovering America here: every word that is said certainly has a very important weight of responsibility behind it. This debate on the issue to which you are referring is certainly ongoing and continues in Estonia. It must also include this understanding that regardless of whether we are talking about internal politics, internal developments in Estonia itself or foreign policy, diplomacy, words have weight and words can be very much dependent on what is thought of us or what can happen because of these words, as we have seen in the international news picture in recent weeks or months. After all, the debates on this issue were just held by one of our main allies in the Congress and the Senate of the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U185	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U186	Hello! I hope I'm an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U188	Somehow my camera won't show me the picture anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U189	We can't see you either, but we hear you very well, so you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U190	Got it. Thank you! Dear Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, good Marko! This question will come to you the same way now, actually I would have liked to ask the Foreign Minister, but I think that since you are in the coalition and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you certainly have the same answer to that. In one of his replies, the Minister of Foreign Affairs stated that during the times of Jüri Ratas' governments, Estonian foreign policy was consistent. With certain concessions, I can say that Jüri Ratas, as Prime Minister, was more or less indeed consistent with foreign policy, although from time to time he was also a hostage to his government. But foreign policy is shaped not only by the Prime Minister, but also by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and by several other members of the Government of the Republic. Do you agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs today that the foreign policy of the Jüri Ratas governments was consistent, as we have understood since the early 1990s?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U191	Thank you, Indrek! The question is perfectly understandable and very relevant. In my speech, I did not bring the quote that Jüri Luik said in February 1994 in front of us, or the Riigikogu, at that time. In some ways, he would have seen, like today or yesterday, very relevant and timely comments, including when he said that if Estonia often changes its views, is inconsistent in its aspirations and tends to struggle, it will not achieve its foreign policy targets. Or, speaking of image, it's important, because a small country is known by the perception that we create internationally, by means of our own words, by our own actions. I think that in 1994, Jüri had reason to draw attention to these moments. I guess we've seen it in the last couple of years and maybe even a little further away from time to time. If it were to be stressed that every election in Urmas looks me in the eye, but I cannot agree in any way with Urmas Reinsalu's idea, which he expressed as foreign minister, should have consequences for our foreign policy, it would actually point precisely to the idea that Jüri Luik drew down in 1994, that if we changed our positions too often, we would become exciting and unconscious to our allies, our partners. The voice of Estonia and, in fact, the delivery of the message to our allies, we all know, is not an easy job; it requires years, perhaps even decades of action. As we can see, we have exactly the same goals today, which were in the early 1990s. This means that we have been successful if we look ahead in the long term, if we are able to reach an agreement in this Chamber through a political debate (this does not mean that we cannot have different views and opinions on how to view one or another of the key foreign policy issues) and act together, as a united voice, precisely in external communication, because then we will be clear to our allies. When we talk about value in our foreign policy, we follow it with our own actions, it is work, or rather, it is views that will definitely take us forward. Even yesterday, when we discussed a statement in this Riigikogu regarding the state of the European Union's foreign policy or the situation in Russia, the members of all political parties represented in the Riigikogu gave their vote in support of this statement. I think this is exactly what we should highlight in foreign policy and what brings Estonia success.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U192	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U193	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Commission, waitress! I would like to point out that the presentation of foreign policy, as well as your presentation, practically did not pay attention to the great and wide Islamic world and the problems of Islamic Islamisation in Europe, the problems of Islamic extremism, nor to the relations with Turkey, which is our NATO partner and has long-term negotiations on accession to the European Union, which at the same time is also a source of very many problems in relations with the Islamic world (the conflict in Syria, etc., we cannot go into the details here). Our special services have also paid attention to the fact that in recent years a new dimension has clearly emerged in security, which is specifically related to Islamic countries, especially certain countries and immigration from them. How is it now the Commission's view that we in Parliament should focus more on these issues and also engage in dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs so that we have more detailed, adequate and more competently addressed these issues? Or what is the view of the chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U194	Thank you, good Mart! I think that 15 minutes for the Commission's presentation somewhat limits the description of the priorities that may be most important in our foreign policy at the moment. The issues that you mentioned, for example, really concern the persistence of events in order to be well informed about developments that are taking place in the wider Middle East, not only in Syria, but also in relation to Iran, perhaps also the situation in Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, the conflict in Yemen, etc., are actually a key point, including the Middle East peace process, developments in re-establishing or building relations, more precisely, Israel and a number of Arab countries. These are very important processes. The last visit made by a delegation from the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs last February was precisely there in the region, i.e. the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. The meetings there were very interesting; representatives of local think tanks could also discuss how global developments are seen in the region, including, for example, the influence of the European Union or Western countries on the region versus, for example, the expansion of Turkey's ambitions, but also China's actions. One of the areas or, let's say, major topics in Estonian foreign policy and not only in Estonian foreign policy is undoubtedly the state of relations with China and the so-called projecting of their future. Only this week in the Committee on Foreign Affairs did we ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide us with an in-depth analysis of how further developments in relations between Estonia and China will be seen. However, as regards these issues, such as the conflict in Libya, the conflict in Syria, which is directly in the border regions of our allied space, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has, through time, received both intelligence briefings and think tanks hints or an analysis of how we could deal with the developments that are taking place there. They undoubtedly have an indirect impact on our security, and certainly these issues will continue to be on the agenda of our committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U195	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U196	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question for you. Did you have a conversation with the Foreign Minister before you found out that there was an unfailing desire to participate in 17 + 1 format? I have realized that it is still driven perhaps by the folklore from which this sentence comes that the Estonian border should run against the Chinese wall. What are the relations with Russia in this situation and will the Treaty with the United Russia go under if it is an incentive to participate in this 17 + 1 format?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U197	Thank you for that question. When I look at the core of this question, how Estonia has participated in this format, this history is somewhat longer than the last year. In fact, the process began roughly ten years ago. Clearly, a lot has changed since then. Quite a lot has changed, above all, in the way China deals with the world, the way it deals with different regions, including how it wants to communicate with different European countries. This has perhaps also been the more distant, deeper historical context of this format. These discussions have already taken place in the Commission. As I mentioned, we also asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide us with an in-depth analysis, taking into account the experience of the last meeting on how we could move forward in our relations with China. China is, and will remain, a very significant influence in the world economy, world politics, including security issues, in this century. A good colleague, Jüri Jaanson, brought the issue to the table from Taiwan and the potential risk of conflict around Taiwan. Undoubtedly, it is vital for us to perceive what kind of world we live in or are going to live in and how we establish our relationship in this regard. But our experience, including in relations with Russia, which you also mentioned in your question, shows that if we reduce everything to only the bipolar, or we try to cope alone with these great forces and agents, we amputate ourselves like some limbs. In fact, we need to be involved with the same Estonian foreign policy platforms that are crucial to us, such as the European Union, NATO, strategic relations in a transatlantic way. That is why I think it is very important to focus our relations with China on shaping a common Chinese policy for the European Union. This is actually a very good opportunity in the spring ahead. If the coronal apandemia still provides an opportunity, the European Union-China summit that was delayed last autumn should take place in Leipzig, Germany, in late spring. I think this is such a good place, where Estonia too has the opportunity to show that we are part of the joint action of 27 countries and a common policy towards China. I think we should discuss all this with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with all the parties that are indisputably affected by the Chinese format of relations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U198	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough presentation. The relations between Estonia and Russia in political terms are very tense; this is a generally accepted fact. My question: could our country consider introducing Russian vaccine Sputnik V, all the more so because many people are willing to be vaccinated with it? Should our country make an effort in this matter? It seems to me that this is already part of our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U200	Thank you, Maria, for this question. You indicated that relations between Estonia and Russia were tense. They have not, unfortunately, been tense lately. The tension, emotional, historical, and other pressures that have been felt in these relationships has been going on for quite a long time, over the past 30 years. However, we also need to analyse relations between countries through historical experience and the agents that can affect our daily communication in one way or another. From Estonia's independence in 1918 to this day, I would point out that at different stages of history during this 100 years, especially when Estonia had not been occupied by the Soviet Union, visited Estonia or, diplomatically, has not received this attention from any neighbouring Head of State, Prime Minister or Minister of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, unfortunately, we can say that we still have a lot of work to do to ensure that our bilateral relations are based on a concept that is certainly in Estonia's interest in good neighbourliness. Both the Minister in his speech and I in the speech of the Commission pointed out that, in any case, the worse for Estonia, the more intense, the sharper, the more dangerous the relations between Russia and the West are. We certainly cannot distinguish between Estonia and Russia, nor can we separate from the relations between Russia and the Western countries, which affect us unambiguously. For Estonia, it is very important that our defence shield, our deterrence, is not only due to our own actions, which have greatly strengthened and improved over the years, both in defence matters and in other areas, but also very much depends on how successful we act together on aggressive Russian policies, on discouraging foreign policy, on exclusion in any area. With regard to the subject on which you asked, I do not think that there is, unfortunately, a lack of feeling here that, also in the case of vaccination mathematics, when you look at, for example, the clichés of Russian television channels, how this topic is described, it is still often, clearly speaking, an impact operation that has undoubtedly had an impact here in Estonia, but also in Europe at large. I think that in addressing all these issues, including this issue, we must bear in mind that, unfortunately, good will in dealing with a global pandemic in a neighbouring country has also been scarce. But once again: Estonia must address all its relations, especially those that also have a critical significance for our security, in the broadest possible way and with thought. By taking every step, we need to think about whether it is in Estonia's security interests and whether it works in our long-term foreign policy interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U201	Thank you, dear waitress. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for answering questions has passed. Thank you very much, Marko, for your presentation and your answer to the questions. I apologize in front of all the registered ambassadors, but we have to move on to the agenda. I'm opening negotiations. First, then, representatives of the political groups. Mr Kallas, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's foreign policy has two dimensions for me. One is the regional dimension: cooperation with neighbouring countries, Finland, Latvia, Baltic cooperation, Baltic cooperation, Nordic cooperation and why not the Arctic cooperation mentioned by the Minister. And there is a larger, global dimension: Estonia participates in world politics among the 27 Member States of the European Union. There are three major powers in world politics: the United States, China and the European Union. The interest of Estonia's foreign policy is that the European Union should be as strong as possible in its relations with the other two major powers so that it can organise relations with the two, negotiate and conclude agreements on terms that are useful to us. The US is, of course, a natural ally of the European Union. The European Union and the US account for half of the world's gross domestic product and a third of its turnover. But relationships are complicated. Donald Trump highlighted the problem of inequality in trade relations between Europe and the US, and this is the internal political legacy of the previous President. In 2009, there was a small surplus in the turnover of goods and services on the US side ($5.2 billion), and 10 years later, Europe is over $120.7 billion. It has always increased, despite the tariff measures taken by the previous President. The list of topics where European and US interests are colliding is quite long. Let's call it Boeing, Airbus, genetically modified organisms, etc. There are 23 European Union complaints against the US and 10 US complaints against the European Union in the World Trade Organisation. Relations on the axis "security versus human rights" are very sensitive. The negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership between the US and the European Union, which belonged to the so-called TTIP, should be re-established. The promotion of this idea could indeed be one of the guiding principles of Estonian foreign policy, and I am very pleased that the Minister mentioned the same. Finding a solution to specific problems is an important challenge for restoring the transatlantic axis. Indeed, the increase in China's economic capacity 15 years ago did not arouse any particular emotions. The market increased, Europeans' investments in China brought profits, and Huawei was a welcome guest in Europe. The situation changed when China began to use its economic power to achieve political power in the world. In 2012, the European Union was stabbed when the so-called 17 + 1 Group, the Central and Eastern European-China Cooperation Group, an association of countries with a secretariat, i.e. Beijing, was established. Estonia is also part of this group. In trade relations, China is putting pressure on the European Union by requiring technology transfer as part of all agreements. Europe, of course, and also our interest, is to defend our technological achievements, including those of Estonia. China's investments were previously viewed favourably in Europe. Only recently have nuances concerning security and unfair competition in trade (State aid) and unequal conditions for investment in Chinese companies have been taken into consideration. In 1996, I was chairman of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers. On several occasions, I gave press conferences with Hans van den Broek, the European Union's Commissioner for External Relations. "Well, yeah," he said to me before one press conference, "if anyone asks me something, it's money, if you're asked something, it's the Russians. "Estonia is certainly not only today... I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U203	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U204	... Russian theme country, we have other topics, which was also discussed by the Minister, with which to collect points. But the relationship between the Russian topic and other issues must be balanced. In this sense, it is also very important that it is the European Union that can organise relations with Russia on our terms, not on Lavrov's terms. There are nuances in the practice of foreign policy within the European Union. It should be borne in mind that one of the unwritten rules is at least that the European Union, in its relations with third countries, protects small countries in particular, because the big ones can handle themselves. There are many examples of this. This does not mean, however, that anything can be achieved without regard to other nations. As a small country, Estonia's foreign policy should avoid transnational intrigue. Often, it is tempting to form groups of countries within the Union to do something together. It's a fatal mistake, it doesn't accomplish anything, but some country, a group initiator, is using it for its own good, and a small country has a chance to get into a pretty stupid situation. It may seem that a small country is merely a speck of dust that has no foreign policy effect. That's not true. A lot can be achieved, provided that we choose the objectives and the right instruments to be achieved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U205	Thank you. Now I'm asking who has the authority on behalf of the central fraction. Is it on the bayou? Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U206	Eight minutes, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U207	Five plus three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U208	Good minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! High guests! If someone had said two years ago that the whole world would be shut down, that planes wouldn't fly, that they couldn't go on vacations, you'd have to sit at home with the kids for months, it would have seemed like a science fiction movie script. However, this science fiction became a reality last year and, unfortunately, it will continue this year. The world around us is changing beyond recognition, and all of this is also directly relevant to our country's foreign, defence and security policy. Our biggest challenge is protecting Estonia's national interests in a fragile international climate, managing the health crisis and restoring the economy. Maintaining a common value space between us and our allies, based on democracy, the rule of law and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all people, is also crucial during the period of exit from the crisis. The central group of the Riigikogu supports the views of the Foreign Minister's presentation and wishes him the strength to solve the challenges facing Estonia. I just want to talk about a few things by expanding them a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's biggest challenge is undoubtedly the restoration of the economy. For example, due to the lack of foreign tourists, we have already lost over EUR 1 billion and this amount is increasing every day. The better we can adapt to change through smart and fast action and innovation in new products and services, the more successful we will be. Anyone who can be fast, flexible and smart in a changing world has a head start in other countries. Estonia's competitive advantage should continue to be the speed of reaction, the e-state and the expansion of e-residency opportunities. No one comes to Estonia after COVID either on a tray. However, despite the small amount of resources, we can offer much more ourselves to others if these resources are used in a smart and efficient way, even more than the great powers in their inertia and bureaucracy. It is important that we see our own competitive potential and give it a boost. In the crisis, our front line workers are medical, rescue and police. In the period of exit from the crisis, however, it is diplomats who will be our frontier workers. Business diplomacy will play a greater role in international communication than ever before. It is quite clear that in the event of a recovery, a world race for resources, both material and, for example, human flows, or tourists, will begin. Those who have new ideas and agility to apply their ideas will be ahead of others as they recover. Cooperation between the Minister for Foreign Trade and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is particularly important here. Instead of competing, the EAS and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have to step on the same foot to get our ideas, creative industries, goods and services into the world. For years, Estonia's competitive advantage was the image of our e-state, which has started to fade a bit. If we want to continue to be players in this field in the world, these capacities must be promoted and sold. The virtual conference solution created in Estonia, for example, has just won a major UN procurement. The participation of Estonian companies in the procurement of international organisations could be much more active. Last November, the Office of Business Diplomacy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs organised round tables of opinion leaders and business associations to explain what steps Estonia should take in the coming years to increase exports and foreign investments in Estonia. In these collections of ideas, it was said that Estonia must focus on its priorities. By doing a little bit of everything internationally, we will not achieve much at the end of the day. Fragmentation becomes a waste of time. In the event of a recovery from the crisis, there must be a concentration around common cores. When I refer to the opinions of business associations, I suggest that Estonia's image in the future will be a green digital state. This would be a new vision that would help bring together the efforts of both the state and entrepreneurs to create new development opportunities for Estonia. A green digital state could become the cores of Estonia internationally as well as a new slogan. This would help strengthen Estonia's image in the world, increase exports and competitiveness and open new doors for us. The inclusion of Diaspora is crucial in this regard. In addition to maintaining Estonian language and culture, 200,000 Estonians living in the world must also be involved in strengthening Estonian economic success. In the future, the global Estonian programme curated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must receive new content, new management and actually involve Estonians in the world in order to preserve Estonian Estonia and strengthen Estonia's international image. Here, it is worth taking as an example countries that have done so very successfully [with their diaspora], such as Ireland, Germany or Italy. The continuation of Estonian language and culture through time is an obligation imposed on us by the Constitution. It's a value that needs to be kept. At the same time, cultural and linguistic diversity has been an opportunity for Estonia, not a brake on development. The most important thing in this is the creation of a common information space. Unfortunately, some of the people living in Estonia are still under the influence of Russian propaganda channels. Not surprisingly, then, when they express the views expressed in these very channels. In order for all Estonian people to be in our own information space, our own language and mind space, it is elementary that Estonian language learning is available free of charge, at least on an online and app basis, to everyone around the world. This would help Estonians living abroad, Estonian communities as well as those who do not speak enough Estonian at home. The provision of Estonian-language TV programmes with both English and Russian subtitles would also contribute to language learning. At present, this is only the case for a few programmes. But if we want to increase the impact of the pro-Estonian information space, this is what should be done, not only on national television, but also on private television channels. Finally, I would like to thank all the ambassadors who are watching us today and congratulate you on the anniversaries of our relations between countries. We still need to work with you. Honourable ambassadors, there is no doubt that Estonia can only succeed internationally if we can step on the same foot in Estonia's foreign, defence and security policy across political parties. This has been the case for decades and it must not be broken by a science-fiction world around us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U209	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U210	Okay. Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, sincere words of recognition! A beautiful speech, and her eyes rested on when the Minister of Foreign Affairs promised to continue these wonderful, interesting initiatives that were initiated at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'd like to say a few more things. Firstly, the OSCE Presidency. I think it's something I hope we can manage. Of course, it depends on consensus within the OSCE organisation. Secondly, we have had agreements with Finland and Sweden, and I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will bring them to the government, i.e. the drafting of new reports on future cooperation by wise men and women, experts in cooperation with Finland and Sweden. Now on more specific issues. As far as the foreign economy is concerned, when I started serving as Foreign Minister, there were four diplomats who were full-time in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs dealing with the foreign economy. I can say that the European Union's Structural Funds resources, EUR 40 million, the resources that are expected to be allocated, as well as the historically largest increase in operating costs, will enable us to focus, particularly in a difficult economic situation, on bringing new money through foreign investment and, on the other hand, on opening doors for our businesses internationally. This is a very important aspect which, in my opinion, was under-represented when I joined the Foreign Minister's office. I certainly call for the initiative that we had at the end of last year, the Global Digital Business Forum, to continue. This is what we did with the United Arab Emirates, and it could certainly become a routine, as well as bilateral business forums with the various countries that we have had, above all, with the Nordic countries. Its scope should certainly be broadened. As far as the Security Council is concerned, Marko Mihkelson slightly criticised the fact that great things are being done, large pieces being put into their noses [all sides]. No, I think that Estonia has been the most active member of the Security Council during the first year, and we have done nothing wrong. On the contrary, it is as a member of the Security Council elected from Eastern Europe that we have taken the floor on the issues of the Nagorno-Karabakh crisis, the issues of the Belarus crisis and the issue of democracy, the violation of human rights in Russia. We have to continue this line. During our Presidency in June, I think, our subjects, certainly the subject of cyber security, must continue. Secondly, we have an agreement with the UN rapporteur on children's rights in conflict situations, certainly such a general humanist view. Thirdly, in the Arria format, I call for a global debate within the Security Council during its Presidency on the policy of non-recognition of annuexions in Europe as a guarantee of peace and security in our continent. Now the question of the Eastern Partnership. I think the time is ripe for us to start reforming the Eastern Partnership format. The Eastern Partnership countries seeking political integration with the European Union have also expressed their willingness to do so. We need to separate the Eastern Partnership into two: those countries that see their future in Europe, in the European Union politically, and those that simply want to develop cooperation and good neighbourly relations with the European Union in the neighbourhood policy. There is currently some danger, especially as a result of events or a stalemate in Belarus, that the Eastern Partnership format will be taken hostage. The question of different initiatives. This initiative on investments in diplomacy, which was launched this year, I believe, promises interesting events for us. Mr Mihkelson has already mentioned the Minister for Media Freedom. The meeting of NATO's Foreign Ministers on the eastern wing is expected to take place in physical form. I think it is time for us in the context of the corona crisis when we, along with Singapore, have set up a global forum in which 70 countries joined the digital struggle against the corona virus, as well as the second act of this forum. Our crucial security guarantee is NATO, and the presence of US soldiers here in Estonia is undoubtedly important to us. That's what we have to work for. Now in a minor tone. I honestly admit that in the previous government, the Prime Minister and I dealt with the speeches made by the EKR when things were said that should not have been said. Had to be fought. But I'm looking at the hostess-masters in the new coalition as if they're gone. This is, in my opinion, a situation in which the Heads of State, be it Jüri Ratas, the leader of his coalition party, or Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, cannot remain silent. I don't argue with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I understand him. He relies on the votes of the Centre Party Group, it is understandable, as a minister now in the Riigikogu. But I read yesterday what Parliament's coalition ambassadors spoke about. They spoke of Alexei Navalny being a criminal, Nazi. They spoke of this.. I would point out that this was said by a coalition politician who represented the coalition, that the European Union and the United States' sanctions policy has failed in overcoming Russia's aggression. When I read that rioting on bronze night is likened to peaceful protests in Russia against Alexei Navalny and freedom of expression, I say that silence is absolutely screaming and inappropriate. Can't keep quiet, can't be like a King's game mouse in your pockets when you get those Kremlin talking points in our ears. Marko Mihkelson, my old friend! Can't be like Rapunzel in a castle tower somewhere, just keep quiet while the Kremlin's points come out of the mouth of coalition politicians. We used to keep them under the oven with Jüri Ratas, the politicians of the Central Party using this rhetoric, but now somehow the Overton window has been expanded to a great extent. The second issue concerns Sputnik's vaccine. What if the Prime Minister evaluates Sputnik's vaccine, is he acting as a medical science scientist, virus expert, or does he express political views? I heard the views of the Prime Minister of Estonia, which the embassy of the Russian Federation welcomed. I have to admit that I liked the positions of the new Lithuanian Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs better. They made it clear that, of course, the Sputnik vaccine is a hybrid weapon of the Russian Federation in shared and government policy. It is, of course, a matter of policy when information operations in the Russian Federation undermine confidence in Western vaccines. It is a completely insane logic to say the opposite, but instead we are hearing something about the side-up-retrospects that it is not a political issue, if we get the European Union's permission, if we adopt it, we are going to buy Sputnik's vaccine. Marine Le Pen greeted Sputnik's vaccine and said we need to use it. But I think we should also be more perceptive here than many of our European allies, regarding the understanding of how holistic Russia's influence is. So all in all, I want to hope that the coalition will correct its behavioral patterns, and that these things will have a clear answer. I fully join in all these calls that the country is one, that the neighbour is one, that the interests of Estonia are one and that they must be boldly defended, that they should be sought for allies, that they should cooperate with all political forces in this Chamber. We do not have an alternative to foreign policy, which must focus on ensuring our security, because our forefathers and ancestors chose precisely this land here where to build their home. The second Estonia has not been given to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U211	Thank you. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U212	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Colleagues! I listened with great interest to the presentation. I listened to questions and answers. It's hard to argue with something or blame it for being somehow inadequate. Yes, we are certainly in a situation where some of the issues that deserve to be addressed in greater depth have found a very superficial approach. To one, I drew attention, it is an Islamic expansion and its security threats, including in Estonia. The issue of China certainly needs to be dealt with in a much more important way. It is certainly in the interests of our country as a whole that our level of competence in China should rise significantly and rapidly. So, basically, thanks. It was probably not the easiest for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to come before us as a newcomer in politics. I'd like to thank him for showing some guts. But... They say everything that used to be "but" doesn't matter. However, I would not quite say that, even before what has been said 'but' certainly has substance. I would like to point out that, in the end, even though everything that was said was remarkable and could be found an extended approach, all of which was personal to me, a person who has been interested in foreign policy for decades, was left with a feeling of insatiability. Kind of unimaginable, kind of gray, kind of bureaucratic. No innovation, no sharpness, no concreteness, no responsiveness. The world is now in a very rough state of change. Let's look east, see the storm wind, look west, see the storm wind, look across the ocean, see the storm wind. But it's like we don't have the willingness to deal adequately with all of this. We're still talking like we talked at the end of history. Our history ended in 2004 when we became a member of the European Union and NATO. That was the end of history for us. And we're still saying the same thing. All of the topics, all the treatments, all of which are expressed by the same stumps that I have been hearing for several decades. And that's a reproach. Let's get rid of this stamp approach, this fantasy poverty, this inability to respond to all the new challenges! Let's shake it off! This applies to all of us, to all of us who sit in this Chamber, but also to all of us who are diplomatic, including members of the government. Let's shake it off! Let's think about Plan B, think about Plan C! Who here said anyone could have imagined that the world would be locked down, that planes wouldn't fly, that hotels would be empty? No one could have imagined that anniversary back, but that's the way it is. But does anyone imagine that China, who put it in Hong Kong's pocket, had a journalistic murmur and a grunt, but basically China put Hong Kong in its pocket and didn't have any negative follow-up to China, practically, decides that it's gonna put Taiwan in its pocket next? Maybe he'll have a little war, but he'll put Taiwan in his pocket. And our great ally on the other side of the ocean, the United States, does a little screaming and screaming, sends the fleet over and says that we will not let South Korea and Japan be taken away. But Taiwan goes. But what if this is a total change in the world's security paradigm that inevitably has implications for us, given our allies with the United States? Or what are our conclusions about what our steps are that follow? It's a purely speculative question, but it can happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U213	Honourable speaker, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U214	Yeah, I need more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U215	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U216	Islamic I was talking about, or rather we had a little raise during Marko Mihkelson's performance. But NATO is no longer what it was 20 or 15 years ago. We can see that NATO is looking for a new identity. Their search for identity is also directly dependent on the foreign policy, security policy and economic policy interests of the United States. They have shifted very clearly to the Pacific Ocean, they have shifted to the Chinese axis of the United States. There is no wonder, therefore, when the Secretary-General of NATO says that we need to find new allies for NATO: Australia, New Zealand and some other countries there. What does that mean for us? Does that mean we're sinking into a peripheral area in focus? That, from the angle of the eye, you can see that there is a line of states somewhere along the Russian border, but the main interest is in the Pacific Ocean, and the most important allies are Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and perhaps someone else. What does it mean for us, what does it bring, what does it do with our diplomacy, what does our diplomacy do, what steps are taken? Again, a speculative question. But I do not see the slightest willingness at the moment to actually address such a challenge. These are not accusations or reproaches, please don't take it that way. These are calls to see the world as a much bigger picture than we may have been accustomed to seeing our stamp thinking so far. And also, we see that the situation of our great friend America, the internal political situation, is complicated. I watched them go to the American Senate and the House of Representatives a few days ago. I was amazed, sincerely amazed by the rage which, after the failed attempts to remove the president, the president who had resigned, just as if to remove him, was thrown out of the mouth of the democrats' spokespersons following this failure. Even the rage that Mitch McConnell, the head of the Republican majority in the Senate, couldn't cover up. This is very eloquent, and it is very worrying, because it shows that the internal policy of our great ally may prove to be in such a state at some point that it paralyses the freedom of foreign policy in the United States. And it already has the most direct consequences for our security. So my appeal is: let's give up these stamps, these stamps, and the thinking and talking that are ours, and let's look at the world without the cover taken from our eyes. We've covered ourselves, we've been in a comfort zone, we're gonna step out of this comfort zone and take the cataract off our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U217	Indrek Saar, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U218	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would like to thank the Minister for this debate and for his presentation. For my part, I would like to confirm that the foreign policy priorities outlined in the Minister's presentation are very sympathetic. I very much hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to follow them as much as possible in the work he has just begun. There is, however, a nuance that I would like to mention in particular. This has been part of the Foreign Minister's speech, which said that for Estonia, every person is important, and the global Estonian programme. I really believe that our diaspora's greater opportunity to contribute to Estonia's development and social life is very important. This is one of the great ways of making Estonia bigger and creating a stronger link with our country for people who have been outside Estonia for some time or longer. I am also pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has created a special ambassador for diaspora issues as a fresh initiative. I hope that there will also be content. I believe that the diaspora will certainly be grateful for this opportunity to communicate and exchange ideas, to support one another. But I must come back to what I also asked the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The time for questions was over. I would have liked to ask the Minister. The minister answered the question concerning the Central Party's agreement with the United Russia that during the times of the Jüri Ratas governments Estonian foreign policy was consistent. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with the Minister here. I understand the consistency of Estonian foreign policy differently. The last government of Jüri Ratas did everything in its power to disagree with this Minister's argument. Unfortunately, I must agree with what Mr Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said, pointing out very nicely in his speech what Minister of Foreign Affairs Jüri Luik said about this remote unit years ago, that one of our great strengths is if we can be predictable and consistent with our allies in our policy-making. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to do that in the last few years. Let us remember how many different ways we have managed to offend our allies or those international organisations that are vital to our security, to ensure our successful foreign policy, and to question their strategies and ways of doing so. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's perhaps most sincere assurances that this was simply the opinion of one minister could not undo this foreign policy damage. It is also, in fact, the new government, the new foreign minister, I think, the greatest work and the greatest challenge of compensating for the damage that Estonia has suffered in the short term, in the last less than two years. This has caused damage to the Estonian state, to the image of the Estonian government, to Estonian entrepreneurs, to the people of Estonia in general. I sincerely want a lot of strength for this job. Estonian diplomats, the Estonian diplomatic corps, have often done very difficult tasks during this period and have tried to smooth these corners, but this has not passed without a trace. I'm asking for more time because I can see there's still time until 2:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U219	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U220	But there is still a long way to go in order to regain foreign policy credibility, and it must be confirmed that we have learned a lesson. We have learned that, yes, perhaps it is that there are different opinions in the Riigikogu about exactly what the foreign policy line of Estonia should be, but if these different opinions begin to shape the face and act of the government, it will strike our image and our allies very painfully. That is why I really hope that the new government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will devote their strength to confirming to our allies that foreign policy continuity, the foreign policy consensus that has ruled in Estonia in general, has returned and we have learned from [the preceding], that will not happen again. We're good partners. We continue to value the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights around which we are concentrated in international organisations. And we do not allow our foreign policy to so-called hiccup or surprise our partners, among other things, by prohibiting our diplomats from joining initiatives taken at international level to protect the rights of minorities. This disgraceful experience, too, remains to accompany and remember us from the time of the last government. In a nutshell. You have a very similar background to my good colleague Marina Kaljuranna. A year ago Marina Kaljurand, when there was a debate in the Riigikogu, wrote an article on this subject and, in conclusion, said very nicely: "The governments come and go, but Estonia is eternal. "I hope that Estonia's overall foreign policy line will be what we have seen over the years. I wish you and all your colleagues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs strength. I thank the Riigikogu once again for this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-16_U221	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is two o'clock, the time for today's work in the big hall is over. Thank you very much to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his presentation and meaningful answers to the questions. Thank you to all members of the Riigikogu who actively participated, asked questions and gave speeches! The debate on foreign policy is closed and today's sitting is closed. See you tomorrow!
