ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our Thursday session. There is one item on the agenda today, this is the special committee on budgetary control... I'm sorry! First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries, if that's what you want. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I think you all know that drinking vodka and beer together, mixing them, isn't very good. It's better to drink vodka separately and beer separately. With this allegorical example, I would like to describe the question of the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersnale, concerning a common action plan for Estonian-Russian school and education in Estonian. It has been said a lot about teaching Russian children better Estonian. For the nearest 30 years, wild amounts of money have been spent and burned, but the effect is modest. It is now about to move towards a single Estonian-Russian school, with which this great concern will be resolved. But we have doubts that it may not be useful to one side or the other, either for Estonian children or for Russian children. Not to mention what's written in the preamble to our constitution. How does the replacement of national identity fit into the preamble of our constitution, according to which the purpose of the Republic of Estonia is to preserve Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages? Me and five other members of the Estonian Conservative People's Party have a few questions for the respected minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U3	There you go. There is no further request for referrals or drafts. Before we go to the agenda, we'll do the presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U4	83 members of the Riigikogu signed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U5	Now from today's agenda. On the agenda, the Special Committee on National Budget Control has launched a debate on a key national issue on the planning of the next financial perspective of the EU, the Refinancing Facility and the Fair Transition Fund. The rapporteurs are Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance and Research Fellow in Macroeconomics at the University of Tartu, and Professor Lenno Uusküla, Head of Research at the Centre for Monitoring Development. In accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Bureau, on a proposal from the Commission, set out the next procedure for discussing a key national issue. Urmas Reinsalu's presentation is up to 20 minutes and questions-answers up to 30 minutes, the presentation by the Minister of Finance is up to 20 minutes and the questions-answers up to 30 minutes, and Lenno Uusküla's report is also up to 20 minutes and the questions-answers up to 30 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask a single question to each rapporteur. When the questions of one report are over, the board will be cleared and the next waitress will have to rewrite her question. When the reports and questions are over, there will be negotiations. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the special committee on the control of the state budget, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak to the representatives of the political groups and then to the members of the Riigikogu. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. If our debate should last longer than 1 p.m., then the initiator has a proposal to extend the session until 14 p.m. Now let's go to the reports. I'm calling Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U6	My dear Riigikogu! Estonia is a parliamentary republic. What does that mean? This means that Parliament has the power to decide on the most important issues, the most important issues must be decided in the country by Parliament as a representative of the people, alongside all other authorities, and must lay down general rules. We are in a situation where the European Union's external resources are expected to amount to EUR 4.65 billion, of which 1.1 billion is the R &amp; D Facility, 0.35 billion is the Fair Transition Fund and 3.02 billion are cohesion funds made up of regional development, cohesion and social funds. In more detail, the Minister for Finance will give an overview of these. I am not going to touch on specific financial allocations because the position of the government is represented by the Minister of Finance. The government has held long negotiations with the European Commission and confirmed Estonia's position with a recent decision. Given the size and impact of this money on the future of Estonia and the related decisions, such as the achievement of climate goals, as well as the exit from the corona crisis and the impact on the economy, it is precisely the legislator that must give its input to the plans planned by the government. It is the Riigikogu that deals with matters that are important as a representative of the people. In addition, this obligation is also put before us by the Constitution, which states that the commitment of property to the state is decided upon by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the Government. Regarding the share of own resources, the government is making extensive commitments to the State in the proposed decisions for a period of seven years. The Government has submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu for approval of the new system of own resources of the European Union. Perhaps this is how much money the Member States have to pay to the central European budget. This money will cover the financing of the European Union's financial perspective across Europe in the lion's share. It is appropriate that the Riigikogu discusses where this money is to be allocated before discussing the substance. However, according to the Constitution, the Riigikogu must also give its approval to the framework scheme of Estonian European Union grants, as this scheme results in a large-scale own contribution to the state over the next seven years, i.e. actually during the term of office of the next parliament. This is what a purposeful constitutional interpretation requires of us, which provides for the principle of prioritisation, importance and universality of decision-making in the case of expenditure to Parliament. It cannot be that this decision-making power slips out of Parliament's hands completely into nothing. Over the years, Parliament has given power to the government, step by step, in the area of major substantive financial decisions. It is time to take that power back to Parliament. I propose that two principles be discussed and set out: firstly, the plan for allocating funds from the European Union's financial perspective must be approved by Parliament, and secondly, all the implementing regulations for the European Union's financial perspective will be introduced into Parliament's sectoral committees before approval. At present, there is a risk that implementing regulations may not even reach government approval in the future, but will be endorsed by ministers. It has been customary in Estonia to draw up a separate implementing law for the organisation of a specific European Union subsidy scheme after the implementation decisions, but it only concerns the introduction of technical euro money and the control rules. The purpose of today's debate is to take the first step towards establishing the role of the Riigikogu in deciding the European Union's instruments. We will have a concrete overview of the plan, as I mentioned, Madam Secretary of Finance. As an external expert, economist Mr Lenno Uusküla takes the floor in his independent view. The Special Committee on State Budget Control asked the Ministry of Finance to present the views of stakeholders and the views of the European Commission when negotiating the EU subsidy scheme. Interested members of the Riigikogu can consult them through the Secretariat of the Audit Committee. I note we only got a selective sample. The Riigikogu and the public have passionately discussed the construction of cultural objects. Common sense says that the Riigikogu must also discuss and decide on the principles of sharing billions of euro money. The fact that there is a lot of money and this money creates obligations for the state over a very long period of time is no excuse for not dealing with the subject. This proposal is certainly alien to the government, no matter who is in the government, as well as to the officials. They ask that this has never been done before and that has changed. The government has adopted Estonia's long-term plan "Estonia 2035" as a replacement for the current Estonian competitiveness plan, which has Estonia's development goals for the next 15 years. It is precisely because of this logic that it is necessary to clearly link "Estonia 2035" at the level of the Riigikogu, the Euro Support Scheme and the uniform system of governance documents of the national budget strategy, which is supervised by the legislator. At the level of the legislator, a comprehensive view of the activities and tasks planned by the State will enable the legislator to look at the costs incurred by the State with the understanding of whether the planned costs are reasonable or not. This is the basis for the budget review. The fact that euro money must be planned in the key to a common monetary planning of the state, in order to understand the state's obligations arising after the money has been reduced, has also been highlighted by the National Audit Office. In 2017, the National Audit Office issued recommendations to the Minister of Finance in its audit "Financing state tasks from European Union grants." Firstly, to provide detailed information in the country's budgetary strategy on which financial management processes and reforms, and on how to prepare for a likely reduction in EU support in the future. Also, as part of the country's budgetary strategy, provide an analysis of the contribution of European Union support to the funding of different national tasks and performance areas, and provide a predictable timetable and action plan for the programming of grants, i.e. which key decisions need to be taken and who and about when should they be taken in the planning process. The state budget strategy 2019 stated very generally that Estonia will continue to plan state budget resources with the central principle that the sources and needs need to be viewed in a comprehensive manner. In 2017, the government decided to plan national and all external instruments on a coherent strategic basis. This means that national funds, European Union funds and, for example, European Economic Area funds will be planned in a comprehensive and coherent manner for the strategy period starting in 2021. Take apart the country's budgetary strategy, see if it takes place as such a method of governance of the country's budgetary strategy approved in spring. The answer is actually no. The aim is, as stated in the National Budget Strategy in 2019, to increase the effectiveness of the state's activities and the efficient use of resources. The government stated in its National Budget Strategy for 2019: "Despite the source of funding, activities must be designed in a sustainable and effective manner in cooperation with other sectors in order to mutually support the achievement of the objectives. EU funds are seen as a one-off leverage [---] and their use must lead to a development leap, ensuring a sustainable positive impact on the economy and society, but avoiding additional burden on the state budget." It is important for Parliament to have an overview of the measurable targets that we want to achieve with the euro money targets. Let me give you an example. It is with the support of the euro that Europe's climate targets for 2050 are to be achieved. By placing the necessary financial needs in perspective, I recall the estimates made by the SEI Institute by autumn 2019. What is the expected financial need for this objective? I quote: "In order to achieve the objective, it is necessary to contribute to the private and public sectors, including all ministries, local authorities, sectors and natural and legal persons, and to expect changes on both the production and consumption side. The lion's share of the total forecasted activities (EUR 17.3 billion) is about EUR 12.7 billion in private investment. The activities financed by public sector organisations amount to around EUR 4.6 billion. These annual investments would represent around 4% of GDP over the next decade (2020 to 2030 U. R.). I would like to highlight some of the attention-drawing from stakeholders. The Estonian Council of Rectors has pointed out that during the next period of the Structural Funds, R &amp; D investments in the Ministry of Education and Research measure will decrease by more than 100 million euros and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications measure will also reduce by nearly 100 million euros. In a letter to Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, the Chemical Industry Association is concerned to point out that there is a lack of clear criteria as to which investments lead out of the oil shale dependency of Ida-Virumaa and into the future economy. According to the Union, the estimated investment needs for the future economy of Ida-Viru are up to EUR 3.5 billion. I would also point out that clarity is not in the government's position to maintain the competitiveness of our industry in terms of free CO2 quotas for companies during the next financial perspective. Our goal must be entrepreneurial and clever greens, not hanging by the feet of the economy. Stakeholders put forward a number of important issues, according to them, which should be covered in the next seven years' financial perspective, starting from the fact that the Association of Architects proposes the dismantling of ugly houses, the Alliance for Child Protection considers it important to target 5% of the ESF funds to combat child poverty, and the Information Technology Association, together with other business clusters, stresses the concern that euro funds are not planned for effective clusters dealing with the internationalisation of entrepreneurship. It is reasonable that these and many other opinions be discussed by Parliament's sectoral committees and given feedback to the government. I call on all stakeholders to send their views to the Special Committee on National Budget Control. This budgetary perspective has two historical implications: firstly, the eradication of the consequences of the pandemic, and secondly, the implementation of a digital and green turn. The most important objective of sharing euro money must be the increase in wealth in Estonia by improving the international competitiveness of the Estonian economy. Estonia will in future be a net payer to the budget in the European sense. This means that the money that we will be channeling into the Estonian economy in the coming years must be a springboard to create new wealth. We need measurable criteria, I hope that the Minister of Finance will open them up, how this money will help to increase our gross domestic product, the volume of the economy. It is also important to correct inequalities in domestic wealth. The train to divide Estonia into two regions, on which politicians have expressed their views and held a debate, has in any case gone into the debate on whether this decision is reasonable in view of this budget plan. However, the Riigikogu Act on the implementation of euro grants can provide the framework for which measures the percentage of money must be directed towards which areas. This is our national competence as legislator; we must take this competence into our own hands. Estonia is not just Tallinn. Our major demographic challenge is the internal exodus from rural areas. There are very few tools to balance this in a democratic country. One is precisely the euro instruments that must create cost-effective jobs. In view of the increase in prosperity, I would like to highlight some of the principles of funding schemes to be taken into account. At least one third of cohesion policy funding should be included in actions co-financed by the private sector. This means that the state will have to put in place less co-financing, the percentage of which will be higher than in this period. It will also help to ensure that projects do not entail administrative costs for the country in the future, etc. In addition, at least a quarter of cohesion policy funds should be devoted to measures that are financial instruments, i.e. loans and other measures, for the private sector. The money thus designed will be returned to the budget and can be used repeatedly. Once the measures are over, the money will be left, and this will also increase our reserves. I will mark a few issues to consider in the financial perspective for the next seven years. We are now at the moment when the government has confirmed its position, but in fact nothing is locked in European terms. This is the moment we are discussing this now and Parliament must take power into its own hands, that is the moment. If we lose this lead in the near future, we will actually be taking decisions in terms of the competences of the next Parliament, for which the government has made choices, and it is no longer possible to reverse them retroactively according to the logic of long-term planning. So, some things to keep in mind. Return of Estonians: programmes to help Estonian children return from abroad, scholarships also for Estonians coming to Estonian universities around the world. Developing housing solutions for young families. Preparing for a new generation of nuclear energy. Creating the university's research potential and a platform of relevant experts. Financial instruments: loan, participation, guarantee, export guarantee that helps to raise capital for small to medium-sized enterprises that have exported products. Support clusters to promote economic cooperation and cooperation with the country. Automation of large public services with the aim of reducing staff. Spreading peak loads in transport, building a network of smart roads and intelligent transport within the county instead of the current free public transport confusion. In vocational education, as well as in professional higher education, the continuation of apprenticeship programmes and training programmes at work, as well as the acquisition of equipment for manufacturing and study purposes. Scholarships for VET students in selected fields of study abroad. An extremely important issue we cannot overlook is the automation of medicine and the development of modern medical platforms. We must not look, even though this temptation to the government has a finance minister giving an overview of the planning of the European Union's money only in the way in which the house is being built. Let's say that's a list of houses. The Estonian always has a house fetish like this, but we are actually looking at the purpose of what this leap of development is that we can generate with this money. We do not just need slogans, but we really need the measurement of what resource we can achieve with what results. We are just setting the central goal that, in a seven-year perspective, it must earn money because the volume of the Estonian economy has increased. This key to growth can only be hidden in the growth of Estonia's international competitiveness. Thank you, honourable Members. I hope for serious cooperation and discussion between the sectoral committees and the parliamentary groups. This is the most important decision during this parliamentary term, concerning the impact on Estonia's future. Why is this the most important decision? Because when we look at it, it is not important to compare it with the budget for the current financial year, where, in fact, the lion's share of expenditure is locked. The political steps that will be taken when taken and a little cut compared to the RES in relation to defence costs, something like that, are not really strategic. The strategic focus of the country's governance is, in fact, in this plan. The question is whether Parliament will be excluded or whether Parliament will not be excluded. Political forces give their input. We must have a dialogue here and we must find a method for Parliament to make substantive decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U7	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U8	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the rapporteur, my good colleague and the chairman of the Commission, for bringing this issue to the Chamber as a key national issue. You were talking about how Parliament should play a bigger role and all this would require greater involvement. You also talked about how the recovery facility and the fair transition should not create further inequalities at regional level. I don't think it's socio-economic either. How do you assess whether what we have learned so far from the government's plans gives any hope that the new euro money will not fall on the old track, so that sharing will not go this way, that it will further increase regional inequality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U9	With this perspective, I have no illusion. When we are talking about whether the difference between levels of wealth and the subsequent processes, which, as I said, are internal migration, the emptying of rural areas, are actually continuing, then yes, the answer is that yes is continuing, according to the current logic. If we also look at the demographic forecast for the decline in the population of rural areas, unfortunately, the forecast shows and confirms this. If we look at the difference or increase in tax revenues in local governments, this will also happen. Our question is that when we talk about international competitiveness, in reality, here in our region there is competition from the agglomeration of Tallinn, we call it that. Tallinn agglomeration is essentially Tallinn + other Harjumaa, which accounts for two thirds of our gross domestic product. The fact that this agglomeration competes internationally is a reality. The question is how to balance it. Not by setting limits to Tallinn's agglomeration, but by empowering other regions, this is the keyword that would create more rewarding jobs. We've got two guns for this. One is tax policy instruments, which concerns the tax system. At present, the tax system does not address this objective. Another objective or option is euro money. In the case of euro money, I would like to emphasise once again that we have the opportunity as legislator, and I think that this debate must be held in the near future, this year, it is also fair in the design and design of measures, to lay down rules concerning either the point system, or the rules relating to the areas under which the measures are applied. It is possible for us to foresee this at national level. Where is the real leadership over this money? These are the implementing regulations. One thing is that we put in place a great generalisation force, right, these goals, a list of a few pages where hundreds of millions of lumps of money are being distributed, but whoever is actually going to get that money and who is even entitled to apply for that money becomes apparent from the implementing regulations. Parliament must also have a tool to control these implementing regulations. In essence, they are still comparable to the generalisation of our state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U10	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U11	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a question for you as Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. A few years ago, the same committee conducted one audit by the National Audit Office, entitled "Financing the tasks of the state from European Union grants." The Commission is working on the basis of consistency, and this subject, I hope, has also been on the table, because these were the big questions raised by the National Audit Office. In fact, as it was to be feared, ministries have a pretty high dependence on euro money. Most ministries want to continue these activities also during the period we are talking about and are planning. Do you have any suggestions on how to reduce the dependence of ministries on euro money? Do you have an overview of activities that were relevant in the period that ended and that will lose their topicality in the new period?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U12	Thank you. Yes, under the leadership of Aivar Sõerd, the Special Committee on State Budget Control did a very good job on these issues. I quoted the audit of the National Audit Office in 2017. The National Audit Office provided for the government to start planning the budget as a whole at the same level of financial decision-making with euro money and national, tax revenue and this must also be reflected in the state's management documents. Now the question is that it is the RES at the level of the government, isn't it when we are talking about comprehensive planning? There is, in fact, a very intermittent trajectory in the RES, as I pointed out with mild criticism, so it doesn't come together at the moment. Now there's a very clear gap. In a parliamentary state, Parliament makes important decisions on the basis of universality, it is the right to levy taxes, and Parliament also has the right to distribute this tax money, it must be in Parliament's hands. We're now wondering if there's a gap. In the case of our country's financial decisions, Parliament does not currently have this decision-making power to decide on the allocation of this seven-year budget. This competence must, in my opinion, be taken up by Parliament. Then we will be able to make a comprehensive assessment of which funds have moved appropriately and sensibly, if we also assess the previous [period], from 2014 to 2020. The financial perspective of the year, which the 'tails' are still running here. In a two-year perspective, these costs can still run, which must be assessed. This is certainly vital for Parliament as well. Consequently, we must ensure that the National Audit Office, the external auditor, provides Parliament with an overview of this, if we confirm it. In short, long-term budgetary planning, which is the planning of European money and which actually takes place at the level of the national government, is a four-year planning. Yes, the Constitution says that Parliament will adopt the budget for one year, 12 months, the financial year, but the real logic, the purposeful logic is that, in a 12-month perspective, Parliament will not be able to process decisions in substance. In my opinion, this Parliament has, in today's situation, actually lost control or control of the substantive decisions that are actually being made for our taxpayers' money and are also being made for the money of other citizens of the European Union, taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U13	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good Urmas! I'm afraid I've already bored all my colleagues with my concern for science. That's what I'm worried about. Estonian science, as well as Estonian education, is at a very good level. In particular, when we compare the investments that are put there and the results. This current austerity policy has also hurt Estonian science. If I look at spending euro money, I can't find anything very comforting in it either. Can you not comment on this area of research funding with euro money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U15	Thank you. I am too skeptical to say that we currently have a austerity policy in general in the government sector. The question is whether it makes sense in places where cuts are considered necessary. I don't think that makes any sense. However, in general terms, we expect that in the coming weeks there should be an answer on how much money has been transferred by ministries, which is the proportion of the money that will be transferred. I'm very interested in what cost dynamics really were in the last quarter. If the hypotheses are true, we will see that there is certainly a reserve for savings and that it needs to be dealt with. Now, from what I referred to and concerning research and development, it is precisely the measure of the Ministry of Education. Indeed, I have at my disposal the comments of the Council of Rectors on 13 April concerning the research activities under the Ministry of Education and Research in the future financial perspective. These are the following. Increasing institutional knowledge transfer capacity in R &amp; D institutions and higher education institutions. The previous European Union contribution was EUR 115,5 million, with EUR 24 million planned for the new period in support of the European Union, a change of EUR 91.5 million. These are data for April, and the Minister of Finance can comment on whether there have been any changes here since the attention of the Council of Rectors. Thematic R &amp; D programmes, with an increase of EUR 50 million. Making high-quality research and research infrastructure services available, with a reduction of EUR 35.9 million. Participation in international research, partnership and international mobility: a reduction of 16.8 million euros. Public R &amp; D capacity: reduction of €12.95 million. So there are, in fact, a number of practical problems that our scientific community has pointed out precisely at university level. I think that when we talk about this objective, about keeping 1%, and that research results should still achieve innovation and growth in the economy, this is a very serious forum for discussion in the sectoral committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U16	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Within the framework of the Green Revolution, Ida-Viru County has a total of 340 million planned and is also planning to create new jobs. But just like the watermelon is green on top, red on the inside, I tried to look at the big picture. So, what does that mean? Let's say new jobs. I don't think miners are gonna be any IT specialists or neurosurgeons. However, it is very certain that the continuity of miners' dynastys that have worked so far will be cut, that is, practical work experience, or know-how, will be lost. At the same time, we have rare earth elements that exist in only four countries and are specifically needed by the military industry. If we keep looking at this thing happening, at some point we're gonna start selling our minerals to companies that start mining, and we're gonna lose our big cash flow. Is my vision too pessimistic, or is it real?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U18	The Special Committee on State Budget Control has at its disposal these general figures, several hundred million euros of transitional money being distributed in the perimeter of Ida-Virumaa, but we have no information at our disposal about what this measurable quantitative model is, so that we can say that with this money, with this resource, this transition can be done in such a way that we do not have a setback in terms of jobs and the volume of the economy in the Ida-Virumaa sector. It doesn't exist. As far as the earth is concerned, Martin can specify. We were just discussing a project. Was it secret?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U19	It wasn't a secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U20	Then I'll say it when it wasn't secret. Or let those who are not to listen do not listen. It was about the Silmet project. Indeed, in the European Union, certain earth metals are a strategic resource. Silmet, which is, if I am not mistaken, owned by a company based on the American continent, has a project to bring further production to this territory of Estonia. On behalf of the state, we proposed such an offer of value for this project last summer, which concerned the construction of infrastructure and energy connections. I don't even know where that decision was. Well, you see, now there are new housewives and masters, so maybe Keit can explain if there's been any news of what happened to it. Of course, these projects need to be dealt with. Logic was precisely when we were talking about substitution, and I think it was very right, both the entrepreneurs and trade unions of Ida-Virumaa were all actually on one side of the front line, so let's not deal with such decorative projects. Jobs need to be created, jobs need to be created, jobs need to be created! Of course, we do not have the point of talking about a completely different sector, about other logics, we need to look at the logic of industrial investment. The state must be ready here to make big, extensive value offers, and also help existing companies in a large-scale logic. It was also the criticism of the Chemical Industry Union that there must be large-scale production transition projects to do so. If there is an exceptional situation and, in fact, administrative planning methods in one region actually end some kind of economic activity, then of course it is clear that it must also be balanced. The general logic of the market economy cannot balance this, so that [the State] must do so. That is precisely where euro money is to be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U21	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for bringing this to this room. It's very important. Of course, it is right and important that Parliament should have a greater say in these processes, and of course it is also very right that regions should be given greater opportunities than so far, so that the gap between the regions and the golden circle of the capital does not increase, but is reduced. Very socialist talk. Thanks for that. But I come to the idea that you have repeatedly said here today that all the implementing regulations for all measures should go through Parliament and should be approved by Parliament. Can you imagine how many hundred of these documents are and how detailed they are? They describe in detail all issues related to the application for measures, the evaluation of projects, reporting, etc. Are you not afraid to drown Parliament in this administrative procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U23	Thank you. I mean, it's a matter of principle. Does Parliament have to be involved? Does Parliament need to have more decision-making powers? No, I think the position must be fundamental. Parliament must write down and say that Parliament is the final decision-maker, the second decision-maker of such a large monetary and policy option document. In the Republic of Estonia, this institution is the Riigikogu. Now, the subject of the implementing regulations. I did not actually make this proposal, but this is the place of debate that the implementing regulations should be approved by all the committees in the field, as we are reviewing European Union documents. My proposal was that they should get to these committees. Believe me, it's about sharing tens and hundreds of millions. Of course, no one deals with any dates. If there's a technical procedure, it'll be quick. But the main argument is, in fact, what is the debate about all budgets: who gets how much money? That is the question of the implementing regulation, who gets how much money. We're not discussing dates, technical decimal places and these things. I think this should be in Parliament's hands. I'll get an analogy. The coordination of the European Commission is based on the fact that we are a Member State of the European Union. Our entire constitutional order has changed with regard to the membership of the European Union and the law on the amendment of the Constitution; the membership of the European Union has become 'conform'. The competence of the legislator lies in the Commission for European Union Affairs. The analogy is, in fact, that when we talk about the rules of the European Union, about some draft directive, it is actually also the exercise of membership rights in the European Union, that is, where the money from the European Union's Structural Funds goes. I think that this reasoning should be developed with a holistic approach. At the moment, I think that Parliament is left to deal with smaller things and bigger things have somehow slipped away. I think that the question of allowing Parliament to speak out on the development plans must also be put on the table openly. How's that? The government confirms and Parliament has the right to hear itself, the right to say the last word. Parliament has been placed as one of the institutions involved in the process of involvement in Estonia. In other words, the only representative of the people with a direct mandate is currently placed in the country at the level of the organisation involved in these matters, with housing associations, associations, etc. This thing needs to be turned around. Hey, guys, this thing doesn't fly here. I think this is the place. It is precisely Parliament that must say that we want to govern a state in a parliamentary state. We're not giving it away to anyone else. I'm sorry! Perhaps someone in the community has been given a mandate to give up power. I certainly have not received such a sneaking opt-out mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U24	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Indeed, regional inequality in Estonia has increased, and research shows that the distribution of European Union funds has had a significant impact on this. I will look at the implementation plan approved by the government or sent to the European Commission. There, in fact, the money for regional development is actually falling. Secondly, all previous errors are repeated. I have also been looking for where this Parliament's role is and where I can give the government input in order to listen, do differently. I haven't found much. I understand that you had the Minister of Finance on the Commission or someone who was on the government's side there, and I am sure that he explained his vision of the stage at which Parliament will be involved, how Parliament can speak along and why this situation is at all like this. Please enlighten us what this government vision is. Can Parliament even be a part of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U26	No power will be given. Power will be taken. The question now is that if Parliament does not take this power, believe me, and I will in no way criticise the Minister for Finance or his predecessor or any other finance ministers individually, or anyone else will give up that power. I imagine that the inclusion plans, which, above all, are linked to a fair transition and structural instruments, are in the process of being involved. In particular, stakeholders and institutions, market participants, so-called "who will or will be interested in obtaining possible money," have been taken into account. It will be ahead of us in the coming months, and I have no doubt that it will be carried out in a formally impeccable and polite and cute manner. But the question is probably that all experts will also come to the sectoral committees, they will be called, and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, that Parliament must give itself the centre of gravity. It is a decision, a decision at Parliament's level, that we say that we will approve it or that we will make our parliamentary reservations during the debate. Sharing this money is not a matter of Estonia, that Estonia says, we divide 4 billion or we leave in the closet at all. It can be done in theory, but it would be extremely stupid. In fact, there is dialogue with the European Commission. These letters are also available in the Special Committee on State Budget Control (if any Members of Parliament are interested) how the European Commission has given its feedback to Estonia's requests in the dynamics of the last two years. In this logic, the European Commission will say once and for all whether it complies with the efficiency, as well as with the formal rules laid down in the European Union's financial plans. This means that we must also create our parliamentary reservations, which we consider reasonable, which Parliament or the Government is calling for and which must also be taken into account in the regulations. As I said, so far, Parliament has had, as optically speaking, the power to adopt the law, the law on the processing of financial resources for the financial period. But it's already post factum. The universal competence of parliaments is before spending, let us say, in fact, before making a decision, the irreversible nature of the decision. The Constitution says that we are adopting the state budget comprehensively. The Constitution says that Parliament gives the government a mandate to make financial commitments to the state. The Constitution says that only Parliament has the prerogative to conclude foreign agreements that impose financial obligations on the State. It has been the clear will of the author of the Constitution that Parliament must maintain a comprehensive control over public money. This control is not a right to be heard or to be involved, a right to express an opinion, but a decision-making power. In my opinion, this decision-making power must be created by Parliament either by an amendment to the basic law of the state budget or by a separate act on which all, including the committees in the field and the ambassadors, can submit their proposals. Of course, I think that this is also a place where the centre of gravity of this debate tends more to Parliament than the government's involvement, and we can also have a dialogue with stakeholders. If you ask what this is going to do or what this result is, of course, most coalitions are in Estonia and things are decided on by the working principle of the majority coalition, or, in this case, it is not different. But we have to have a clear money distribution model. The state has said in the previous state budget strategy, the National Audit Office has said that we do not really have this integrated approach. We have a lot of documents, and like the crown jewel, right, "Estonia 2035," long-term strategy, but these documents still don't give us any certainty. I'm saying I don't have the confidence that we've tied the money to our goals. As long as it doesn't exist, I'm saying, as once said by the late General de Gaulle, there's a danger of going back to our known misguided path.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U27	Merry Aart, please! And I would point out that the time to ask questions is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U28	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! ... Thank you very much. This is a subject that is very often not covered. Over the years, I have seen that very often decisions have actually been taken in today's decisions, which must be started in a few years' time, be it the tasks of local governments without financial cover or the fact that farmers who, alongside farmers in other countries, are actually uncompetitive, I mean from a financing point of view, not from an innovative point of view. The Estonian farmer is highly innovative. Even the authorities curating the field, whether it is the Ministry of Rural Affairs or the Ministry of the Environment, are actually in relation to the orphan. But my question is a little more general. What do you think is the role of the Renewing Fund in Estonia's development?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U29	Speaking of the recovery fund, there are two things. One is the possible loans that this recovery facility will allow. As far as I know, the government has not made any decisions about these loans, so that Estonia would borrow from this joint soup. This support fund or money is, I think, weighty in itself. It's weighty for a very simple reason. That money is how I say, cheaper or better money for two reasons. Firstly, this money must be used faster than the seven-year and four-year perspective. Secondly, it is important that the share of the own contribution is quite different from that of the other Structural Funds. I think that if we are talking about giving the economy an extra boost or a boost to exit the pandemic, increasing the volume of the economy, without stretching, it could be our job to take advantage of the money and direct it precisely for economic goals. I say once again and I stress that it is not subsidies that must be A and O, but it must actually be financial instruments, starting with loans and guarantees. These and the own contribution calculation are actually, I think, a sustainable economic growth plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U30	We can ask you one last question. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U31	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good Urmas, thank you very much for bringing this issue to the grand Chamber of Parliament. Otherwise, it may indeed happen that Parliament will be famous over Estonia by deciding on cultural objects that will be able to build a new cultural object in the next period, and this rally in Parliament is as if more than the very important question that Estonia is going to, where Estonia is going in the next phase of grants for the European Union. There has been talk about Ida-Virumaa, Tallinn and Tartu, a little bit about the South-East-Estonian programme, which probably many Estonians do not understand. But what can be said to the rest of Estonia, including the Members of Parliament, who represent these circles? Where will Estonia go in the next financial period and during the award rounds?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U32	Let's just say that, rhetorically, this hierarchy of goals is built up nicely in itself. Improving the human potential of Estonia, so that people have better health, better public services, more prosperity, that is the general logic. But maybe yes, as I said, there are two particular keywords for the impact ratio. I'm not going to talk about the first financial perspective, where everything really went down, right? It was houses, houses, houses. In the previous, this proportion, the proportion, became more balanced, but it actually remained, I'm saying, too inclined towards the public sector, you could say that. We can discuss that. Now, I am saying, the shift has exactly taken place towards more entrepreneurial measures. Two unique things: perhaps stronger keywords than in the past are the conduct of a digital and green turn, which should take place in this seven years. But in the case of the green turn, I did not read out the analysis of the Stockholm Institute for the Environment, which talks about the needs of the public sector. As you remember, I said that these are over EUR 4 billion, indeed, until 2050. But the lion's share of the expenses must still be planned during the next decade. In fact, the total volumes were 4% of GDP over the next ten years when we talk about total expenditure volumes. There may have been some other calculations. I don't know. I don't have them at my disposal. But it is certainly important to open them in subsequent discussions so that we can understand what we will get for what money. For these measures, which are designed to carry out the green turn, have also been taken into account mechanically behind the numbers, quantumitarian numbers, how they reduce carbon emissions. If I remember correctly, paradoxically, it was that support for the purchase of electric cars, in itself, mostly reduced carbon emissions. But I think that here too, these green targets have actually been partly uncoupled, actually under the green target label [there are also others]. Like in the old days, if you remember that when it was Lenin's 100th birthday, that pretext was to build a city hall, right? Actually, the people in the city hall needed it, but it was taped to it. Here, too, a great deal of construction and development of public buildings takes place precisely under the green turn sign. It is a deterrent measure that is used. It's universal. It's part of the business. But we just have to have a clear scale of what we're going to achieve with the green turn, where we're going with this money, and whether it's the best optimal balance point. Thirdly, I would like to say once again that our aim must be to think about entrepreneurship in this green turn, to think about creating prosperity and the green economy, to think about this perspective. Otherwise, we may find that with these rules we have simply painted ourselves in terms of competitiveness and our opportunities. This must not be allowed to happen. We have to act creatively. Statehood is a creation, and especially in the case of such, let's say, system-wide holistic agendas that have been implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U33	Thank you. Time has run out and the questions have run out. The next waitress will be Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for organising this debate today. It is certainly necessary and important for this topic to be discussed in Parliament. If we think about the years ahead, Estonia will have good economic growth over the next few years. It is precisely the public sector that makes a very important contribution to this by making decisions and investments that stimulate its economy. Between 2022 and 2027, 3% of total economic output, of GDP per year, will be used to stimulate the Estonian economy by means of euro money. Indeed, the new period of euro money brings to Estonia the greatest investments ever made. For example, five years ago, a little more than a billion euros was invested a year in Estonia, and compared to this, investments are virtually twice as high in the coming years, reaching more than 2 billion euros a year. Good people's representatives! In six years' time, on the first Thursday of May 2027, we will be in the final year of the next financial period of the European Union. I do not know who will then lead the Estonian state. I do not know whether the construction of the Estonian-Finnish tunnel, which allows two economic spaces to be connected, has already started, or whether one of the main topics to be discussed is the new environmental technology, such as the hydrogen technology solution, created by Estonian scientists and entrepreneurs, which created a number of jobs in the spring of 2027. But I know that if we are discussing the budget of the European Union for the next seven years here today, we should focus not on which fund to share the money to whom exactly how, but on how to use this money, the biggest investment opportunities of Estonia that have restored independence to support Estonia's new growth, a better quality of life for people, a more prosperous life, ideas and activities that change the future as wisely as possible. If we have the greatest opportunity in history to give Estonia a new impetus for development, how do we use this money? What's the vision? Are we cutting our forests open? Are we building new stone-squeezing factories and worshiping diesel, as it has been in recent years? Are we going to continue more or less the old way, holding on to it, longing for the past, and hoping or pretending that the world doesn't change around us? Or do we try every day to be one step ahead of the problems that send us telegrams from the future, to achieve more, to ensure that Estonia is among the winners of the global economy of the future? When speaking about Estonia's vision, the Singapore model has been offered; others offer the Nordic countries as an example; thirds offer Switzerland as an example. This example is sought again and again somewhere else. But I think Estonia's vision could and should be Estonia, greener than grass and as fruitful as a quantum computer. We should set the example for everyone else of the new economy, to which others look and want to copy. It is a successful digital and green pipeline that creates good prerequisites for us to do so. In addition to our decades of good nature conservation work and the one-time tiger jump, I am sure that there will be a great deal of help from the ever-greater support money. In view of this vision, these current funding schemes have been put together. These funding schemes support Estonia's future. Therefore, I say that if you are simply opposed to these plans without offering anything in place, it basically means being opposed to the future of Estonia. For the sake of historical truth, the preparation of the current plans began during the previous governments. Thank you to the members of previous governments for this too. True, this has been both a plus and a minus of these plans. I am convinced that the turn towards greener Estonia is our next big thing, a big goal that combines the knowledge of scientists, the technological skills of workers, the willingness of companies to move ever higher in the value chain, and, as a result, also brings us better wages, pensions and public services. It also brings inner satisfaction from making life and the world a better place. Green Estonia, greener Estonia, grassroots is our next big thing for us. When we decided nearly 25 years ago that the digital state was our future, we made this decision at the right time and were eager to do so. Today, our decision and choice is a green country that provides a better quality of life for every person in Estonia. The recent crisis has brought more acute recognition, understanding and acceptance of the importance of preserving the environment, how we are connected through the environment and how this earth we live on is exactly and only one. Changes that take place in any corner of the world, sooner or later, all will also directly affect our corner of the world. This will certainly make the European mission particularly important as a leader in climate policy. Estonia's opportunity here is to use the advantage of our small society to be more dynamic, to be faster. There is nothing abstract about Estonian herbal cords. This is energy saved in the future, i.e. lower costs. It is a cleaner and renewable energy source, i.e. a better living environment. This is once a continuous re-use of the resources already produced, new technologies, opportunities for Estonian entrepreneurs. We really have EUR 1.8 billion to use, with the support of the European taxpayer, to make this greener Estonia turn. What do you use it for? First of all, the energy side. We have the opportunity to use millions, hundreds of millions for sustainable energy consumption, to switch to energy from renewable sources. We have the opportunity to replace such a production-consumer-to-shoe model with a circular economy, i.e. by giving longer lifespan to the resources already deployed. Giving Ida-Virumaa a fresh breath, getting rid of oil shale addiction, 340 million exclusively to support the creation of new jobs in Ida-Virumaa and the living environment of this beautiful county. EUR 100 million for the development of new green technologies in strategic areas. This means funding for research-intensive greentech companies. In fact, this is where we could go to germinate a new global-grained green Skype or Pipedrive or TransferWise, a new-name Wise, or Cleveron or Skeleton enterprise, whose ambition is to change the world and which results in the export of Estonian knowledge. If the Estonian economy wants to become more productive, as fruitful as a quantum computer, a digital revolution is inevitable. Information is, in any case, new oil. Those countries that are poor, poor in their ability to digitise the processes of processing and using information are losing out in the economy of the future. We need a new digitalisation leap throughout society. In this context, in an era of seeking new solutions and shrinking labour, alternatives in the public sector, including the use of artificial intelligence, should be boldly considered. The productivity of Estonian labour has increased, but it is still about three quarters of the level of the European Union. The introduction of new technologies would help increase productivity, but Estonian companies have been modest in using digital technologies and spend less on research, research and development than they spend on average in the European Union. Research and development and cooperation between researchers, companies and other institutions must increase considerably in Estonia. This is also the case for this new budget period of the European Union. The tools to enable the use of basic and e-services are well developed, but the quality of services is again uneven. In order to ensure the preservation of e-services infrastructure and the security and development of electronic tools, it is necessary to contribute both to the development of the basic infrastructure and to create alternatives to existing solutions. The continuous, continuous development of technology, including the use of artificial intelligence, will also provide and open up new opportunities for the country to offer and provide existing intuitive services more effectively and make decisions in a smarter way. For a new digital revolution, we have EUR 439 million, more than 70 million of which are precisely to support the digitalisation of businesses. What does that mean? This means, for example, real-time data exchange solutions that help save more than 200 million euros a year for Estonian companies. The introduction of real digital solutions will make it possible to save millions of working hours equal to 7000 full-time people. Digitisation provides an opportunity to focus precisely on this avoided cost on increasing the volume of their core business in companies. This in turn supports productivity growth and wider economic growth. EUR 164 million is for e-governance renewal, for further development of public services. Digital services become smarter, one that reminds you yourself and comes to you when you need them. EUR 48 million to ensure fast and decent internet access, whether through air or cable, means that 23000 addresses will be able to join as a result of this investment. It is about as much as the people living in Põlva, Kärdla, Paide, Lihula, and Põltsamaa combined. Now the connections. The world is clearly sequestering. We must strive for its hub. Without connections, whether without transport connections or without high-speed Internet, we are simply doomed to backwardness and greater poverty. The high time travel and the complexity of the combination of modes of transport and interconnectivity between routes are currently a problem. In order to develop competitiveness, Estonia needs to develop transport and also energy infrastructure connections with Europe. Therefore, both 5G-internet and Rail Baltic are the first stage in connecting the two economic spaces with the Tallinn-Helsing tunnel, of vital importance to us. When we are talking here about changes in the various areas that are now in motion with euro money, all of this must sound together, it must form one whole goal and a plan, it must support one goal, but not with every million or billion to push in a different direction. Rail transport, which will receive the biggest injection of money in history over the next few years, will take the same step as the whole green turn. Why invest so much precisely in rail transport, rail transport? Because high-quality, fast and comfortable public transport is very quickly accepted by Estonian people. Train traffic is actually the best example of this. When there was an opportunity to make your trips with new high-quality trains, they got used to doing it quickly, and quickly used to using it as a convenient option. The numbers. While in 2013 people made just over 4 million train journeys in Estonia a year, 4.2 million, by the time before the corona crisis, in 2019, the number of train journeys by people had doubled in Estonia to 8.4 million passengers per year. The people of Estonia like environmentally friendly and fast transport, and all of this supports the decision to make the biggest injection of money into train traffic during the new financing period for euro money. In 2026 the European taxpayer's money has been completed by Rail Baltic, which takes Tallinn from Riga faster than now from Tallinn to Tartu in an hour and 42 minutes. Then it gets to Vilnius in about the same time it takes to watch the "Tet" movie and maybe two more "Happy 13" parts, in three hours and 38 minutes. Alongside people's mobility opportunities, Rail Baltic, of course, means one additional quick opportunity for the movement of goods. Markets are getting closer to businesses. As has been said, the completion of Rail Baltic is the first stage, however, for another important leap of growth, for connecting Estonian and Finnish economic spaces with the tunnel. Linking our region into a single space with a number of future climate-neutral countries is a potential that many still do not perceive its impact. But we're going on with this plan. The new euro budget will also bring freshness to the tram traffic of the capital city for over seven years. I don't know if you remember when the last major and environmentally friendly investment in tram traffic was made on the streets of the capital. A larger investment was made in 2014. Then, with the government at the time, we made an investment in Tallinn by means of a carbon quota transaction, and now we are going to help with the euro. There will be a proper modern terminal connecting bus, train and tram traffic to the Ülemiste. The tram network will be upgraded with the tram line of the Old Port, which will connect the airport and the port. There's still some upgrades in tram traffic. If any of you can name a future problem that can somehow be solved without the help of scientists, you can signal. Climate change, grassroots practices, the implementation of digital solutions and the creation of new jobs through new technologies all require the contribution of researchers. The use of research results to meet future development needs, the creation of a bridge between researchers and businesses is essential for the new budgetary period of the European Union. There is also an opportunity to invest quite a bit. Estonian science is very strong, but often it also develops separately where the real needs of entrepreneurs require the support of science and researchers. We have built and strengthened both the research sector and the business sector separately, but the development of such a smart, more value-added economy through an efficient transfer mechanism from science to entrepreneurship has in no way been anyone's own high priority. So I think that public support for applied research based on the needs of economic operators is crucial. In addition to financial support, it is equally important to provide support in finding partners and improving knowledge and skills so that entrepreneurs can be smart subscribers. The aim of starting with the Applied Research Centre in the Applied Research Programme is to bring together the demand of companies for practical science and the skills of researchers to generate revenues from business, applied research and experimental development. Which green unicorn starts exactly, we hopefully will see much before the next decade's turn. This time, euro money is also the necessary support for sectors most in need of help to emerge from the crisis. Crisis support is provided to young people who are away from school and work, a cross-sectoral child protection organisation model is launched and the recruitment of low-skilled young people continues to be encouraged. The health sector, which was the most immediate frontline during the health crisis, can be invested in Saares, Hiius, Järva, Narva, Tartu and Tallinn. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The process of planning euro money has not taken place in a hundred days. This has been going on for at least two years. Hundreds of people have already offered hundreds of ideas, helped us to have a historic opportunity to design Estonia's own model, greener than grass and fertile than a quantum computer, with the help of euro money. Thank you to all those who have already participated in this process, including members of the previous government, Members of Parliament, experts, businesses, universities, representatives of NGOs and officials. It is estimated that around 40% of the total euro area monetary programme for the coming years will be used in advance, such as large train traffic investments, road construction, unemployment fund-related activities, but 60% of this future-creating money will be distributed again in open competition, on the principle that the best project, the best idea, wins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U35	Minister, thank you very much. You're out of time. Do you want me to offer you three minutes or are we almost done?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U36	One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U37	One more minute. Here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U38	For good projects for the future, we will have money in the coming years with the support of European Union taxpayers. Do we have enough good projects? There's no point in offering new free lunches, but new world-changing solutions. Thank you all for your time. I, too, believe that Parliament could play a major role in all these debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U39	Thank you very much. Now to the questions. To the questions, I remind you, we have 30 minutes. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your review of the government's plans and decisions that you are already negotiating with the European Commission, and thank you for your understanding that the role of Parliament could be greater. However, as we have heard many times today, this role is in no way defined or certainly sufficient. "Estonia 2035" has not been confirmed, there are no debates in Parliament, no input has been requested from Parliament. Is and how do you think the Riigikogu is involved or should it be involved in the planning of euro instruments and in making these billions of decisions? What is the role of a representative of the people? As we know, the Riigikogu no longer endorses the development plans that form the basis for this planning, not to mention the sectoral programmes that are confirmed by ministers and which form the basis for concrete measures. How can the role of the representative of the people in this process be enhanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U41	Thank you. I have felt that way, and I continue to believe that Parliament must be precisely the place where long-term goals are set. In fact, the 'Estonia 2035', which is the most important basis in substantive terms or a major framework for planning and planning European Union money, has also been the subject of discussions in the various committees for quite a long time. This is not the role of the Commission and the individual members of the Commission, and it is precisely the opportunity to keep this debate substantive, to make a substantial contribution and thus not just to influence directly, but to put in place the directions that are fundamental to shaping Estonia's future. In addition to the discussions on "Estonia 2035," should parliamentary committees and Parliament discuss the EU funding budget for the next seven years? I think you should. Indeed, in these hundred days, I myself have been to several committees where interest is well known and where I have been called upon to discuss precisely how the European Union's money can be used in such a way as to give new impetus for the future in terms of economic growth. I do encourage all of us, if I may do so as a member of the government, to do so to the committees in my field in a specific, very detailed way, to unravel it and to discuss and to give the member of the government the decisions that Parliament considers necessary within seven years to channel the European Union's money. It's important anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U42	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U43	[[Remote connection]] Madam Minister! First of all, this is the question of the line concerning support for small and medium-sized enterprises in South-East Estonia - 7.5 million. In implementing this programme, is it also planned to maintain the resources of the South East Estonia programme in the country's budget strategy? The funds of the South-East Estonia programme are currently included in the country's budget strategy. The other thing about the grass. This is extremely important, and when we talk about Ida-Viru, it is understandable. There are municipalities in Estonia where the employment rate related to forestry is 20.25%. The forestry development plan has not been adopted, but obviously this debate is ongoing and possible pressure for forest management is quite there. Is it planned how these jobs will be compensated in the event of the collapse of forestry in municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U44	Thank you. First of all, the first question is whether this envelope of funds from the European Union or financial support for South-East Estonia is really complementary. Yes, it is. It is designed so that South-East Estonia, but mostly Ida-Virumaa, will receive additional support from European Union funds. As far as forestry jobs are concerned, I really agree with you, and I believe that forest management must also be based on environmental interests, sustainable forest management. This is why, where the state has the direct opportunity to influence logging pressure, we have also done so in the budgetary strategy of the country through the State Forest Management Centre in the coming years. So compared to the national budget strategy adopted last autumn, the state order for the State Forest Management Centre in the form of dividends is significantly lower. Business grants, which are intended to create new jobs, but in places where this is possible and necessary, also for the restructuring of existing jobs, are open, above all and certainly also to those regions where not only due to the exit of the oil shale industry, but also for other reasons due to structural changes in the economy, such transformations need to be undertaken. So, yes, it will certainly be possible to use the resources of the recovery fund, as well as the Structural Fund budget for the next seven years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U45	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. A green turnaround of EUR 1.8 billion is planned for European taxpayers' money in order to reduce our emissions. Among other things, you said that you were planning to give Ida-Viru County a new breath. At the same time, the government gives Ida-Virumaa a new breath with the construction of a new oil shale oil plant, which is, well, oil-scented breathing. You have said that you are generally not very supportive of this project, but what to do there. After all, what has actually turned out now is that this project can be reversed at relatively low costs, most of the investment costs have not yet been incurred, but you have nevertheless decided to proceed with this. Here's the question. Firstly, do you not think it is schizophrenic to take European taxpayers' money to reduce emissions and then use your money to increase emissions by 5% in the context of our overall mission? Question number two: why don't you stop this project?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U47	Thank you. We have also exchanged views on this issue in the past, both inside and outside this Chamber, and therefore I am sure that my position will be known to you. I think it's a bad investment from an environmental point of view. The decision to increase the share capital by 125 million State money last March, which was linked to the construction of a new oil plant, is a decision that neither I nor you were able to influence at that point, which was born in March last year. It is not possible to replace one of the best decisions with another bad decision, i.e. by causing damage, by causing financial, economic damage, by reversing this increase in share capital, despite the fact that my personal opinion is as I expressed here just a moment ago. No extra cents of taxpayers' money will go to this oil factory. This was decided by the government at the time of the formation of the government. Corporate managers, based on the decision and choice made by the government in the spring of last year, are responsible for what they have confirmed that it will be a profitable and profitable project. They have this responsibility, they have to stand behind their words, otherwise they will have to answer a lot of very unpleasant questions. In the case of Eesti Energia, it is important that investments in the future really go into renewable energy and, above all, into renewable energy. Among other things, the greater development of renewable energy is something that must be attended by those who have an interest in it, by the people of Estonia and by investors in the same way. This is why, perhaps a week and a half ago in the government, we decided to make progress with the IPO of Enefit Green, so that really everyone would have the opportunity to take part in this development of green energy, renewable energy through Eesti Energia Enefit Green. As has been said, for the development of fossil development, this government will not add a cent of taxpayers' money to further develop the oil plant.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U48	We have a procedural question in the meantime. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U49	Thank you. Clarity must, of course, be created in these matters, in the management of state assets and in the management of state participations. The Minister of Finance claimed that he, being the hostess of the general meeting of Eesti Energia or the general meeting, is like the executor of the will of the previous government, that, as the government has done, so the Lord has decreed, even though these are bad decisions. But I'm going to ask the previous general meeting manager who's holding the hammer of the Riigikogu. You were the one who played the role of the general meeting. In fact, in view of the future, can the general meeting itself change this decision? I did not think it was a question of increasing this green paw mark. Depends on what you compare. In an objective sense, of course, there is zero reality, but compared to oil shale energy, it reduces again, doesn't it? It's that pipe you're looking at. In fact, what is the opinion of the President of the sitting on the statute of Eesti Energia and whether the general meeting is absolutely right that the wills of the previous government restrict its competence? Or aren't they?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U50	Thank you. We sin now, of course, it is not a procedural question. But it is not correct to claim yes that an oil plant will increase our CO emissions. At the same time, it reduces the production of other materials from oil shale, which is more polluting. But the general meeting, of course, is that the general meeting can give very clear orders to the executive board. If these arrangements run counter to the prudent management provided for in the Commercial Code, the executive board can, of course, say that they cannot carry them out. Let us try to move forward with the debate. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I listened to you talk about the green turn, which you didn't speak for a very long time, but it came to pass that the grassroots is giving Ida-Viru County a better quality of life and abandoning the oil shale industry. But here's the question. Everything has to have a plan, especially when cardinal decisions are made. I actually have two questions. Please state where the people working in this sector will be directed. How do you see them working in the future? The second question is this. Earth in Estonia is known to be very rich. Who's gonna mine in the future? As we know, if the miners disappear, this continuity will be cut. Is it planned to involve the private sector here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U52	Thank you. Since I do not know which section of the Home and Working Procedures Act preceded the question by a peculiar debate, I would add to it that my claim was, and I have said it openly, and I stand behind it in order to present the oil shale oil plant as a major environmental project is simply not possible. From an environmental point of view, when we are talking about making fossil investments, yes, if we compare it with the nineties, then indeed, there has certainly been a reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases, but we are no longer in the phase where there is no alternative. Therefore, the claim that it is basically an environmental project is not a serious one. Mr. Grünthal's answer. There will be no national targeting of workers from one sector to another. It is neither inherent nor appropriate to this regime. What can and must be done is to support the creation of new jobs where this is possible and how it can be done. From this point of view, Ida-Viru County will be given an absolute special attention and special attention to Estonian counties for the next seven years. No other county will really receive such financial support from the European Union for the next seven years. This is justified because the problem of Ida-Virumaa, the need for Ida-Virumaa for the same turn, for a new opportunity, for a new breathing is the biggest, and therefore indeed 340 million or, with technical assistance, 353 million additional support will be directed there. What are these exact corporate developments, exactly what are these companies? I don't think the government has to say that. It is up to us to create opportunities, conditions and where the country is able to participate and offer such a value offer, to present a value offer in order to bring investment and new jobs into the region and attract them. Lately, in the last few weeks, without having been able to implement a fair transfer fund without the recovery fund or the new Structural Fund money having opened up, there has actually been a number of good news. There is news about how Aquaphor opens a mega plant near Narva, which brings 700 new jobs and capital of EUR 200 million, precisely in the region that is waiting for new jobs. Similarly, quite recently, information came about the fact that, as a result of the very quick operation and value offer of Invest in Estonia, the Swedish battery manufacturer Nilar International AB is also considering the establishment of a new factory in Estonia. It is possible that Ida-Virumaa, which would bring an additional 300 new jobs. It has been, as has been said, before it opens up the available money and the possibility of support at all. So not only do we have to wait for the money from the Fair Transfer Fund to open up, but we are already doing this. As far as mineral resources are concerned, the Ministry of the Environment is also currently analysing this very seriously how new developments in these areas can be undertaken in Estonia so that the environment is maintained and the precautionary principle, which is absolutely the same in terms of the environment, is guaranteed in the same way. I'm sure that's what the Ministry of the Environment is working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U53	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation, you did not talk about regional development. Perhaps because the financing plan for the new period actually reduces the amounts for regional development when compared to the previous period. What I am interested in is whether the government has decided on some kind of policy and where I could then see them, as regards the distribution of the rest of the euro money, such as the same EUR 427 million to strengthen the competitiveness of companies or the Roma yards. It should not be the same as in previous periods that simply stronger, more capable companies with more knowledge and financial resources in Harjumaa are able to take the money from the projects and the rest of Estonia is actually going to lose. Are you applying any principles in business, green and all other funds to guarantee rural areas really this development, jobs and money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U55	Yeah, thanks! It is precisely the principle and analysis of making such regional distinctions that takes the initiative of Jaak Aab. As we know, we are currently with the Commission at this stage of the negotiations, where the overall amounts will be decided, but the details will be decided in the near future. This will be done together with all sectoral ministries to ensure that this same principle of regionality is a cross-cutting principle, regardless of the ministry, area of government or sector in which one or the other support and investment will be implemented. The general principle that can be used is, among other things, in addition to these regional envelopes, mentioned in South-East Estonia, but also in Ida-Virumaa, the application of different rates of self-financing so that the share of self-financing in the wealthier regions, the wealthier centres, is greater and in those regions where the survival rate is not yet so good, it would be possible to offer greater opportunities for those who would like to apply new ideas with lower self-financing rates. In fact, the place of consideration is also whether some of the grants, some of the projects and programmes will be subject to separate calls for proposals in such a way that there is a greater and separate possibility for companies operating outside the centres and a separate and likely smaller proportion for these large centres. Again, it is precisely for this reason that it is not automatically the case that a good idea comes only from large centres, and that this sieve, which must pass through, also takes into account regional, regional specificities. So it's planned, it's done, and really these separately decided principles or principles, as you said, will put Jaak together, and in the near future there will certainly be a chance to get acquainted with them. Again, I suggest that you also invite Parliament to speak on this subject, for example, Mr Aab.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U56	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Today's debate on a key national issue started with a bravural message from the chairman of the Special Committee on National Budget Control, as Parliament and the government should begin to take a great deal of measure when it comes to the mobilisation of the European Union's financial perspective and other funds. But I never heard the word "cooperation" in this hall. And a philosophical question: what is more effective, competent and professional cooperation or rivalry from every position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U58	Thank you. Estonia is actually a good example of how the big things that have worked out, whether it is a digital leap, a digital state or some other field, have been successful because the parties have agreed on important things, regardless of other rivalry or other deck rippings that otherwise apply on a daily basis, and have been doing something. I do not know what would have happened to our digital state or digital revolution if the government, the Riigikogu, the private sector, scientists, universities had not cooperated. I think we might still be arguing about a lot of things and stuff because of our rivalries. I myself am very much in the belief that constructive criticism and substantive improvements, the provision of replacements are always good and will always contribute to a better outcome. But you don't really need an empty rivalry or a bravour. It takes time and energy, but it doesn't make it any better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U59	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U60	[[Remote connection]] First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a good overview. But I'm gonna ask you more about the schedule. In addition to the long-term budgetary plan, a recovery plan has been agreed and it is a little more urgent, as it will depend on the outcome of the crisis and economic development. What is the state of play with the draft national plan for this recovery plan? Can we get these negotiations with the European Commission and also get assurances at the European Commission's level in the time frame that has been planned in the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U61	Thank you. This is a question that I find it difficult to answer, because on the government side, we have a desire and readiness and we see the need to move forward quickly with the financing plan that is included in the recovery plan and brings EUR 1 billion to Estonia. However, as we know, Parliament's EKRE Group has tabled 700 amendments in the order of magnitude during the parliamentary procedure, which today's opening speaker considered very important, and that is why the whole process is being blocked. This means that, in fact, it is not only for us, Estonia, to move forward with the recovery facility and finally to conclude this agreement, but because the recovery facility is still in place and only after all the Member States have carried out their internal processes, we are actually preventing the implementation and arrival in the Member States of the entire European Union of aid coming out of the crisis. After all, I admit that it is not surprising that the EKRE has undertaken such an obstruction precisely on the subject of the European Union. Their attitude towards the European Union, the opportunities that the European Union offers to come out of this crisis, is well known. I regret that, because of this cynical attempt at internal political pointing or pointing, the cynical internal political attempt is both in health care, in business, in this same digital revolution, in the green turn, in the Estonian regions, just the situation where money can be used, but it cannot be done, because one parliamentary group has decided to implement its internal political agenda in this way. So I hope that this situation in Parliament will be resolved next week and we can move forward. This decision, the billion euros that, as crisis aid, will help Estonia to drive out faster than the crisis, is urgently needed by the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U62	760 amendments, more specifically. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U63	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I'd like to come to Slide No 8 "Science, Development, Education, Innovation, Entrepreneurship." I know I've already bored everyone with my science, which is why I'm asking about milk. We need high-quality milk. This requires that the udder is in order, that we wash it and take care of it, that there are progressive milking technologies, etc. That's great, but let's just forget the damn cow wants to eat. Here we see all kinds of things that we can achieve through science. But scientists don't live out of the air. Well, dinosaurs like me still work out of the sense of mission, but young talent tends to leave Estonia. And I see that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U64	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U65	Ah! I'm sorry! How do you feel about this dairy industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U66	Thank you. The dairy industry is also very important. But I suspect, of course, that perhaps you did not want to hold this debate at the moment only over the dairy industry. While we have discussed the European Union's money and, in fact, Estonia's own budget plans here with you, there is one subject that concerns science and which has also been the content of your question, for example, concerns the very large fluctuations that exist in the grant system for Estonian science. It relates, well, to the dairy industry in particular, but to what you referred to, the funding of science certainly cannot be linked solely to applied research, just to the link between entrepreneurship and science, which this new period of European Union money will certainly do very well. Indeed, a few weeks ago, the situation with the research grants was that, if EUR 12,2 million had been earmarked for this in 2020, the budget approved at the end of last year was EUR 6,2 million. This fluctuations by almost half were in any case a problem. The current result is that the Minister for Education and Science has taken this issue very seriously and agreed with the research agency to provide an additional EUR 4 million for new grants this year in order to balance these fluctuations. Perhaps this year, the plan and the total amount available in the grant system will be EUR 10.2 million. Similarly, in the coming years, the plan will indeed keep this funding at EUR 10 million so that very steep fluctuations such as those that existed between the previous year and the previous year will not occur. Maybe it'll give you some peace of mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U67	In a regrettable way, the time for questions has run out and I cannot take any more questions. Thank you very much to the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U68	That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U69	Next, I call for a presentation by Professor Lenno Uusküla, Research Manager of the University of Tartu Macroeconomics Researcher and Development Monitoring Centre. The presentation is 20 minutes and the questions are also 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U70	Good afternoon, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of Finance! Thank you very much for this opportunity to open this matter with you here today and to hold a discussion on this subject. My name is Lenno Uusküla, I am a macroeconomics scientist and co-professor at the University of Tartu, and I have been the head of research at the Development Monitoring Centre just near here since this year. My topics are the economic cycle and major policies: fiscal policy and monetary policy. I am involved in the COVID socio-economic impact assessment project. At the Development Monitoring Centre, this year I will be carrying a reflection of the future of long-term care. From the moment I agreed to come here, fiscal policy has received a great deal of attention in the public debate. This certainly requires a warning that these are my personal views, not the views of the University of Tartu or the Centre for Monitoring Development. However, since this debate is big and wide, I thought that I would start a little further away from what the budgetary policy was about to do, what it could achieve and where the funding could fit in the big picture. Although it is European Union money and it is money with a special label, it is nevertheless part of all the money you are here to share. The most important thing likely to be considered for fiscal policy in a market economy are market failures. The problem is, one does, but the other wins or loses. A typical example is education, where the person who becomes wise actually helps other people to become wise around him and other people can learn from these new skills. In the case of the environment, we are talking about one throwing garbage down or causing global warming, and we are all equally affected by it. These are areas where the invisible hand of a market economy does not solve the supply-demand balance. External intervention is needed to enable the market economy to function and to improve social well-being. This includes health and economic and social justice, because at birth you cannot choose where you are born or where you are born. I would have wanted to insure myself against the risk of being born somewhere in Africa, and I think I'm pretty lucky. But you can't choose what your health is at birth. It is therefore good if we can solve this challenge in society as a whole, because there is no market for buying insurance before birth. Another major objective is the smoothing of the economic cycle. We are talking about the fact that the recession is very costly, unemployment is very costly for society. On the other hand, we are trying to cool down the growth phases of society, the growth phases of GDP, and avoid booms. Then there are all kinds of other financial and non-financial objectives. There has been a lot of talk here about regional policy, but this includes defence expenditure. The European Union also has its own objectives. They have come from improving the functioning of the common market so that we can actually trade on a more or less equal footing with each other. Moreover, this means that the potential of disadvantaged regions is to be improved in the process. When we talk about financing a fair transition, it deals with market failures. This is the environment and the people who are directly affected by it. When we talk about the COVID Recovery Fund, we are talking about the smoothing of the economic cycle, to which part of the market failure has been added. Speaking of budgetary expenditure, it would be very easy to say that spending one euro always brings about two euros of social wealth. Unfortunately, that is not the case. There are very different estimates, more than two euros (from Miyamoto's cost side, Mertens and Ravn's tax side), but there are also estimates that say that this effect is less than one euro. Until there is such a theoretical concept that if we spend one euro, people will think that it will be collected as taxes in the future, which makes people feel poorer, it will reduce consumption and there will be no total impact. Why are these estimates different? Not because we cannot agree, but because the size of the amp, or multiplier, depends very much on different things (consumption, investment, transfers, taxes) and what is actually done to these components. The economic cycle is the first thing on which a multiplicator depends. When the economy is in a recession, the amplifiers are bigger. This is where the milk came from. I'm gonna pick up that example. If you want to pour milk on the baby's muesli in the morning, that's demand. If you have milk in the fridge, it's an offer. If the milk is there, you can put milk on the muesli, if it isn't there, it could be such a little drama, right? If you don't have any milk, you can go to the neighbor's house and ask. The whole society has a limit on whether we have cows that milk. There's no way to jump over your shadow. If there are cows that milk milk, we can increase total production as demand recovers, but if they do not exist, such things cannot happen very quickly. The second issue here is monetary policy. Monetary policy support for budgetary measures is actually very important. Estonia alone cannot influence the decisions of the European Central Bank, but if we are in the same step with the budgetary policies of the rest of Europe, the general policy of the European Central Bank supports Estonia's policy in the same way. In addition, the mole girl depends on how much we owe, whether the financial sector is in good shape or not, whether companies and households can borrow if they think that the future will be better. The multiplicator also depends on promises of future costs. Corsett and co-authors have a very beautiful article, which says that these measures, which allow a great deal of expenditure today but will never have a lower cost in the future, will have a much greater impact than those measures with which we simply promise more spending today and say nothing about expenditure in the future. Logic is precisely due to the fact that, if we allow, like, an increase in costs, there may be an expectation of tax growth, which in turn makes the value of man's net assets, less wealth, so the overall impact on consumption is less. As we continue to talk about promises, there has been a question of how it is possible that spending in 2022 can affect today, 2021, when we are actually experiencing a crisis. Is this countercyclical economic policy possible at all? The answer is yes. In fact, these promises make it even more powerful than spending. The thing is, if you know that there will be a demand for your product in the future, you will keep your production capacity and invest in it. I'll come back to the milk example. If you know there's a demand for milk next year, you'll keep your cows and not send them to the meat combinate. If you know there's a demand, maybe even make sure there's enough young cows growing. That is why this promise is very, very important for the future. If this promise exists for the future, it means we feel richer. If you think of a company that is on the stock market, then future cash flow means that the stock price goes up, it is already able to get better financing on better terms today and it can actually start investing. The very important thing about this is the certainty that if we promise anything about the future, we will actually do it. Because if we have this feeling next year that maybe we wouldn't spend this money, and we're failing to make that promise, then at this point the powerful cock that we can change today with future expenses will disappear. On the side of the promises, I cannot fail to mention as a scientist that I very much appreciate the increase in research funding for grants this year, but, as it was not known at the moment when grant applications were submitted, some grant application, a good project, was not submitted, and this option is among the worst projects, because the assumption was that there was no money. Now the money came unexpectedly, but the question is whether or not this offer exists. Another very important aspect of security is the question of rule and discretion. Each year on its own, it may seem very good to decide separately what is the right policy. Such a decision involves a trap of inconsistency. At any moment, it may seem optimal to change the policy that has been decided and to get a better solution. Next year, you've promised to spend, but you make sure the economy is doing quite well, and you decide not to spend. There is a great risk of losing confidence in this, and we are losing this powerful fiscal dick. There's another setup. Investments and expenditure in budgetary policy are not exactly the same as in accounting, or what we usually mean. Social protection can be an investment. Education is an investment, even though it looks like an expense. Physical capital can be a cost, although in accounting terms it looks very beautifully as an investment. Looking to the future, the share of physical capital seems to be falling in the world at all. Software and knowledge and skills will be replaced. That's what really matters. If you're talking to start-ups, you'll understand that they don't have that guarantee to give to the bank to get a bank loan. The same is true of those companies that produce something, but have bought in production, they do not have this physical capital. I come more specifically to the recovery fund. What makes this joint effort important is that fiscal policy has cross-border implications. If one country spends and the other doesn't, the other one basically gets free lunch because of it. If we do them together in Europe, it will, together, enable us to overcome this [crisis] and avoid a situation where someone is trying to pick up free lunches. The COVID crisis is not a normal crisis. Because no country alone can pull itself out of it, this is not the result of our economic policy choices. If you could still say that, you see, something has been done wrong, you can't say that this time. This time the recession is not broad-based. When we talk about the economic cycle being broad-based, it is not this time. Can we boost the economy, involve everyone and deal with transitions with one measure at a time? If you have one measure, the rule of thumb says that it is not possible that we can solve the social problems that arise from the fact that restaurant workers do not have a job at the moment. To say that these people are the ones who have to go into digital technology is difficult. Overall, the major challenges we have, the digital, green and health revolutions, are a serious problem because productivity growth in Europe has stagnated despite the fact that we are talking about digital technologies developing. The role of science is very important here. But if we support entrepreneurship, the question is whether we support the innovative side of entrepreneurship or universities. There's a very important difference. What does entrepreneurship do? Entrepreneurship wants to benefit from this investment itself. The university strives to ensure that everyone can benefit evenly, so the investment in the university should be much wider than supporting the production of a single company, although it can also provide positive transfers to the whole economy. Society is also ageing and environmental challenges are obvious. It is very nice to have digital solutions when we make new software, but it is very important that people want it and know how to use it. The cost of reducing carbon dioxide is concentrated in certain areas, making adjustment very difficult. It is not that people are scattered across Estonia and then it is much easier to organise this adaptation. In fact, in the world, these costs are largely in China. Can we put China in total because they have just arrived there? Probably not. It is very difficult for private companies to make environmental investments because they are high below risk. If you win, you won't get a lot of money, but there's a lot of different worlds where things can go wrong. The project is only useful if your technology is introduced, for example, whether or not hydrogen is introduced. Some investments are only useful if the cost of CO2 is high or low. But in fact, it is possible to make a hero to a high price of CO2 and a low price of CO2. At European level, you could say, the price is a little under control. The company has no control. This is why it is very important that the whole economy is involved and that all links are well thought out. Health is one of the best examples of how it is not enough for you to make just one narrow solution. Yeah, when you put money in health care, it usually gets better. Very clearly: If you get a cast on your leg, that's good. But whether GDP is affected depends on whether these people actually go to work. We often talk about older people, whether they have the skills they need, whether they are ready to go to work and whether companies are willing to hire them. Therefore, the labour market situation is perhaps even more important in terms of health promotion. We are saying that the number of years of life in Estonia is increasing, but the number of years of healthy life is not increasing. We need health, but we also need a whole supportive system. This first step is not enough. The inclusion of money in one area may not help to solve the problem we want to solve. I hope the doctors won't hear me, but increasing health expenditure will affect health to a certain extent. In fact, social protection expenditure has been found to affect health even more than health expenditure. If a person breaks his leg all the time because he's unsafe at home, it's no use that we put a cast on him all the time. In the case of COVID, we have seen very clearly how hospitals are very struggling with the fact that there are many patients. The health situation can improve if people actually stay home when they come from abroad. This will make the health sector much better in practice. Moving money to health may not help if people still act foolishly. A fair transition. Since the inhabitants of Ida-Virumaa are actually responsible for having come to work in this sector, for which others, we, have decided that it needs to be closed? Making well-diggered data miners is very complex and the whole job chain needs to adapt. Seeing the big picture is very important. First of all, we need to pick up the fruits that hang low on CO2. There is simply a need for cost-benefit analysis to be carried out on absolutely all possible measures and then taken from there in a row. The other thing is that a meaningful and systematic process is needed. It needs training, it's good simple, but it's also very important that these people feel that they have control. There is a need to build social bridges and there is a need for social and psychological support. I changed jobs this year, everything was under control, yet I felt the anxiety climbing into my soul. But what about the person who's educated to do one job, he's been doing it for a long time, but then they say you can't do it anymore, you have to start a new life now? How does this person feel? Are we even able to appreciate this situation? This is a very big issue, which is why controlled experiments are worth doing and it is very important to monitor this process entirely scientifically. This is a very long process and we can actually learn what to do and how to do it. Finally, I wanted to say that I would not very much like to be in your situation, who you have to make decisions for a long time, because we do not know what the future will bring and what the future will look like. However, you can think about what you want, what you should do to get there, what are the conditions that must be fulfilled in order for the world to become what we want, and what happens if these conditions are not. And by doing absolutely unashamed advertising to my colleagues at the Centre for Monitoring Development, I say: these are projects that help to think about such issues. The point of these reports is not that you read and memorize what is there, but that they should be an instrument to reflect on these issues, what the future looks like and what the dangers are about today's choices. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U71	Thank you very much, Professor. You have questions. Let's go to them. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U72	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, thank you for your thoughts, your numbers and your references. But I am still asking you about this regional aspect. The internal report of the Ministry of Finance's own regional strategy shows that many national support measures are concentrated around the capital, where two thirds of Estonia's GDP is already created. Due to the fact that there is much more knowledge, more opportunities and more human resources in Harju County, etc., can you recommend your experience and reading on what we should do and what should be done to ensure that euro money is distributed more fairly in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U73	I start by saying that there should be as much equal opportunity as possible in the different regions to deal with the things that we want them to be done in the region. Starting with the fact that the internet should be of great quality, absolutely everywhere in Estonia, with and without wire. With Zoom's calls, we've seen it's pretty difficult to actually maintain quality. If this is not the case, there is no hope that anyone will be ready to take their company far from Tallinn. It starts with the environment where the company is and the services that are needed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U74	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There were some very good ideas in your presentation about what you said. One of these is: you know that productivity growth has stagnated in Europe. Here's what I'm gonna ask. It is not only a question of productivity, but also of R &amp; D performance, for example, etc. I noticed such a number that while there are 120 drugs in the U.S. in the R &amp; D phase, there are about 60 in Europe. I'm not going to compare here with Asia. As an expert in macroeconomics, would you explain that a little bit? It is not just that little money goes into this area. What else is there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U76	There's a couple of things I can bring out right now. One is this general attitude in America, which is more focused on products. All this patent thinking and the recovery of money is a much more important goal. This system is built in this direction. The second part is that there is much more venture capital in the United States. We're actually talking about up to ten times the difference here. The entire financial system in the United States is built on capital, but in Europe it is built on loans. If you're a very high-risk company with no physical capital, you're not gonna get a loan from a bank in Europe, but you're gonna get one in the United States. As the capital market is better organised, you will receive capital to make this investment. It is pharmaceutical patents and other such things that can be developed when you have capital, and most of the time you cannot do so if you have to start asking for a loan from a bank. For example, there are KredEx measures in Estonia that support companies that have a good cash flow but have no physical capital. This measure is certainly a step in the right direction. However, this KredEx measure makes the loan more expensive for the company, which is why the Estonian company is instantly in a worse competitive position than an American company which does not have to pay a risk premium. The costs of an Estonian entrepreneur are instantly higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U77	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U78	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. I very much agree with you that creating a business environment in the regions is very much behind the Internet. One or two meters will prove to be an impossible [obstacle] from time to time. But I am also concerned about regionality, and my question is: how does Rail Baltic affect the development of the entire population and region of South-East Estonia? Can you explain this a little bit, or can you reassure me that this [effect] is very positive?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U79	On the link between Rail Baltic and the people of South-East Estonia, I am not going to speculate very thoroughly, just in case. What I can say is that examples of transport connections are such that the results can be very unexpected. We don't really know how it's gonna be used. Does this make people move out of the center, or do they move to the center, because there is a transport connection? This world is very difficult to foresee, and I have never read such an assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U80	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U81	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I would also like to thank you for this presentation. Really, very worthy thoughts and such a debate to be drawn up more widely. I would point out that social protection expenditure does not have to be just a cost, often rather an investment, but it simply comes back over a long period of time and in another way, not as a tax revenue for the same year's budget. But I will continue on regionality. The Minister of Finance also described very nicely: train development, trams to reduce CO2 emissions. Indeed, very right initiatives or investments to carry out green tea in transport as well. But trams and trains don't move in rural areas. If you look at the re-use of the euro instruments as a whole, there are a lot of things that, for logical reasons, go to urban areas. How can it be balanced so that regional disparities are not amplified with the support of the euro instruments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U82	Well, that's a very clear set of goals. Everything starts with what the problem is, what we want to get, what this world should look like exactly. It's the basics of leadership that try to imagine the world you want to achieve. If you imagine that people live in rural areas, you also need to imagine what life they want to live there. It is likely that stores will be available for medical attention to be provided at school. It probably doesn't have to be in the same village, but it has to be close enough. I don't know what it's close enough, maybe half an hour. Within Tallinn, we move half an hour in one direction or another, and no one will ignore it, in a rural area it will reach quite far in half an hour if there is a reasonable bus or train connection. Looking far ahead, I want you to know that even self-driving cars are capable of performing this task. I think it's the living environment that determines where people want to live. Then we just have to count the points that make the living environment so that people can live there. Obviously, the fire department, the ambulance, and such services are needed. If they are not available, only very few eco fans prefer to live in such an area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U83	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I also thank you for this good presentation. The recommendations you had on this screen, the work of the Development Monitoring Centre is very good. I have also met some of them, for example, with regard to regional development. In this report it states that if the country does not develop evenly, the rural areas will, in fact, hold back the economic development of the whole country. My question to you is whether, on the basis of these logics, in planning Estonian euro money, we could have the principle that we allocate more euro money proportionally to rural areas than to metropolitan areas and try to reduce this inequality so that Estonia's economic growth will not actually slow down in the future because of the rural area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U85	Yeah, I'm sure it's gonna take some real money to move to set those goals. However, there are short-term objectives and long-term objectives. If we move money to the rural area, it is very possible that economic growth will rather slow down in the short term, because we do not actually have all the capacity on the ground there. That has to be taken into account. Euro money is not a very bad idea for financing in this sense, because if it brings back later, then that time may be seven years after the money has run out, and there is hope that something has been built up for that time and then there will be no need to spend it. That logic actually exists there. Fiscal policy is generally as follows: planning this money, which is temporary, is always more dangerous for running expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U86	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U87	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presentation. Here's the question. There is a lot of talk about new technologies, and that is absolutely right, so we must go along with it. But less is said about electric cars, for example, how expensive it is to produce this electric car and how big this footprint is. Also in the case of waste. Cleaning up waste must be easy for people, it is absolutely right, but less is said about how expensive it really is in scattered settlements. So my question is: how can we contribute to this process so that there is less slogan and more practical peasant thinking at European level too? How do you see it from the Development Monitoring Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U88	Thank you. Yeah, that's why I was talking about this whole thing. We need to think about the whole thing. Really, the electric car at the moment he's in town is good for the citizens of the city because he doesn't pollute so much air. More needs to be considered, however, where resources come from to produce an electric car. When we talk about the effects of the overall balance, which are very important to me as a macroeconomicist, when we make driving easier, we should not assume that people are going to drive less. Which is why, when a self-driving car comes, we'd rather increase the traffic load and actually we'll be sitting in more congestion. We don't have to drive, and maybe we can read and make a web call at this time, but we actually spend a lot more time in traffic than we do now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U89	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U90	[[Remote connection]] Good Chairman! Thank you, Professor, for your presentation. Very, very educational indeed. There was a previous question to which you replied that Internet connection is very important, so that everything, how to say, life would work in remote areas and people would like to go there. After all, internet access is largely an information infrastructure. Here's the question. If we look fully at the revival of rural areas and the recovery of our economy as a whole, it still requires a proper setting of infrastructure, which requires the presence of energy resources. If not, there must be good transmission lines. Of course, in order to achieve all of this, it takes a lot of resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U91	[[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U92	How do you see that more credit is still used to carry out these tasks so that these things can be done quickly to use them later?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U93	In the case of loan money, the idea is that it must be an investment that actually supports the return of that money. However, infrastructure is such a broad theme. If we want the company to be in a region, we probably need to make a choice for the company so that it is really considering going to Pärnu or Narva. This requires physical infrastructure, but it also requires intellectual infrastructure. For example, the regional colleges of universities here are very important. There's two parts. One is teaching and education, there are internships bases and everything else. On the other hand, it is very important that there is a research potential that is not so much in regional colleges so far and has not actually been very much invested in it. I was watching the finance slides. He had a slide where science and education were beautifully titled, but there was no more science and education at the bottom. I don't know where they went, but I'd like to find out, you can't miss it when you're from college.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U94	Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U95	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I, too, thank you for this thorough and meaningful presentation. Here's the question. Politicians are known to live from election to election, but we are still dealing with developments going through several electoral cycles here. Do you not think that there should be some kind of specific advice for such longer-term developments in the country from all the business-researchers who would help set this goal, so that the decisions made by politicians are really longer carried out? If they remain within the limits of only one electoral cycle, the longer-term strategy may shift slightly. Do you think it would be necessary to have such an advisory body?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U96	Thank you for that question. In Estonia, as a principle, there is already that every bill should include a scientific analysis that calculates its impact and discusses what can happen on different worlds. In practice, in my opinion, this analysis of the draft is rather weak than strong. It starts with the fact that there aren't really people in ministries who think like scientists, there aren't many people who can bring together scientists and practitioners who speak to each other. A very good initiative among the European Union's money is the RITA action. That's because there's a science advisor at the Ministry. These scientific advisors are still very alone at the moment and do not have a very clear link with the rest of the Ministry and do not have a very strong link with universities. There is certainly a great potential for development there. In fact, there is a need for a greater focus in ministries on this issue so that scientific analysis can be assessed. On the other hand, on the scientists' side, there's a willingness to do these things. Because scientists are still quite demanding, science and teaching, now there is more entrepreneurship and there is not much time left for science. People are very distracted, and if you put one more thing in there, this dispersal will only increase. However, it can improve if there are people with doctoral degrees in ministries, there are people who think like scientists and are able to communicate it to the rest of the officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U97	Dear Professor, thank you very much, from the heart. No further questions. Thank you for your presentation and your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U98	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U99	Thank you. Good fellows! The Special Committee on State Budget Control has now proposed to us, and we need to consider this proposal and then decide. The content of the proposal is as follows: to extend the working time, if necessary, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. I have a proposal to vote on this proposal. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you very much! I am voting on the proposal of the Special Committee on State Budget Control to extend working time, if necessary, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U100	The proposal was supported by a majority of 47 votes in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. Let's go to the negotiations now. I'm opening negotiations. The commission has asked the political groups to speak first and then the members of the Riigikogu. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U101	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about euro money on the following issues: about the planning of euro money and the role of the Riigikogu or Parliament in this, or at all the opportunity to have a say in it, about jobs, regional development or about the consequences there, why this is not happening, and also about whether we should use European Union money to cover the country's fixed costs, not about making investments for which it is intended. Regional inequality has increased throughout the period of independence in Estonia, most pronounced in the concentration of the economy and people in metropolitan areas. The differences in development between the capital region and other regions are among the largest in Europe. This has often forced people to leave their birthplace because the wages offered in the region do not allow the family to cope with the dignity of the family, or because there is a lack of skilled work. General trends confirm that regional disparities have increased objectively in Estonia. If jobs and services are concentrated only in larger centres, then for residents of rural areas and small towns, this means the loss of work and other life required from their place of residence. It's a vicious circle. If you look at the monitoring report on the implementation of the Estonian regional development strategy commissioned by the Ministry of Finance, it shows in particular the impact of European Union funds and the link with the increase in regional disparities. It is very well visualised in some graphs or pictures, how money is distributed unequally. The reason is very simple: if national measures are taken and stronger, more capable of using more knowledge and financial resources in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, on an equal footing with those who have to operate with much smaller resources somewhere in Valgamaa or Põlva County, the objectives of the project will be achieved much better by entrepreneurs, municipalities and NGOs around the capital than elsewhere in Estonia. And so, even if we do not want it, the money will be concentrated here in the vicinity of Tallinn. It is sad, of course, that the majority of the national wealth of Estonia, or 2/3, will be created in Harju County, and if we amplify all this with euro money, then we will in turn increase regional inequality even more. Previous reports also mentioned that the National Audit Office has stressed in its previous 2007 report to the Riigikogu that a very large, too large part of the European Union's resources goes to cover the state's fixed costs, instead of using them as investments, instead of helping Estonia to make a development leap. What does that mean? This means that the Estonian legend, created primarily by the right-wing parties, that Estonia is a successful country with low taxes and a uniform tax system, is just a legend, because our country works through a very large euro-money doping. The thing about using doping is that at one point, when you stop using doping, it's bad, it's all bad. And as the National Audit Office predicted, it will come at one point. This comes when Estonia is getting less money from the European Union, our economy is getting more complicated. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U102	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U103	The Social Democrats consider it important that we allocate these European Union funds differently during this period. One of the fundamental objectives should be to use them to reduce regional disparities. We should do this by all means. The Minister of Finance described how it is planned here, but I would like to emphasise once again that it was planned earlier, and that regional development was planned in the same way in the course of financing measures for the previous period. The Ministry of Finance asked all the other ministries how you did it, and everyone said, "Yes, we do it." Now we read in the reports that nothing was done. I'm afraid it's going exactly the same way. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Social Democrats, it would be important to increase direct subsidies for regional development. If this amount is less than in the last period, 219 million, then we could add 350 million. This money should go directly only to create jobs, to support entrepreneurship, not to make pedestrian routes, not to do any other nice and necessary things. Really, a lot of important things need to be done, but we should primarily encourage the creation of jobs outside the metropolitan areas of Estonia, because the job in Estonia is the reason why people leave the regions and come to live in the metropolitan area. If we think a little further, this is also the reason, which, if not already slowing down the development of the Estonian economy, will hold very hard in the future. Our proposal is firstly that the state does not use the money for investment to cover fixed costs, secondly, to channel significantly more, EUR 350 million directly into regional investments, and the third thing we consider important is that the Estonian Parliament can have a say and a decision on all these issues. The government has made a plan for implementing EU funds, it is already coordinating it several times with the European Commission, and it is in a relatively final phase. The worst is that Parliament has never discussed these principles once, no input has been asked from Parliament or the political groups. In the government's vision, our role is to be a rubber stamp. One day, the draft law on structural instruments will simply be brought here, which does not actually contain the principles very much, but is a formality. We should approve it and be satisfied. I don't think that's how it should be. In my opinion, Parliament should take the lead and tell the government where and for which European Union funds should be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U104	I am now asking for the technical floor to be given, I understand, to Mr Seeder, representative of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U105	Thank you. I hope I'm audible, and I'm asking for an extra 5 + 3 minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U106	Please! Eight minutes. You can be heard and seen very well. I assume this time the Viljandi connection is working well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U107	[[Remote connection]] Looks like it's working. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which has brought this issue to this big debate in this Chamber, as well as all the waitresses and questioners. The debate has been substantive and interesting. Several speakers have stressed the importance of Parliament taking part in such an important issue as the European Union's money, the financial perspective of the European Union, Estonia's own priorities for the budgetary period of the European Union, which is seven years. That is indeed the case. Both by constitution and by law, taking on long-term financial obligations is the role of Parliament. I will then go a little further on this subject, and I am very sorry if it is not directly linked to the European Union's money. But in the debate on a very important issue, I cannot miss it. I must stress that the various parliamentary formations and the various coalitions of government have been totally voluntary throughout the ages in the same direction. We have consistently delegated tasks downwards. This chain has been much more regrettable when the previous speakers have said that Parliament has given away certain powers. It's just the top of the iceberg. In fact, it has been more convenient for all coalitions that have ruled us to delegate these tasks to the government, not to deal, for example, with the management of 55 members of the Riigikogu in the coalition in order to achieve consensus and the necessary majority. Fifteen in the government are much easier to achieve. And so more and more, through all governments, parliaments have delegated decision-making powers to the government. Of course, 15 ministers, who also have administrative responsibilities, communication outside, etc., are essentially unable to deal with these issues much. This has been followed by the following step: it will be delegated to the Minister and the Ministry. Well, of course, the Minister, with his few political advisors, does not shape political priorities and is not able to process these issues in substance. From there it will be delegated to officials, and this will lead to an ever stronger state of officials. It's been a long chain, and it's been going on for 30 years since the moment we regained our independence. After all, Grotesque is this debate today. We are discussing a crucial national issue and it will end with nothing. This will end with a decision not to adopt, not even by adopting a statement, not even by proposing to the Government of the Republic, but by ending with nothing. Of course we can rejoice that you see, we could discuss, we discussed in public, maybe even someone on the Internet is watching us. But even the smallest amendment to the law ends with a decision and vote in the Riigikogu and is actually beginning to affect Estonia's life, but our speech meetings here may have something to do with it, but there may be nothing to do with it. This is also the case with long-term development plans, and these discussions in the large hall do not end with anything. We're talking, the government can take some advice from there, but they may not. After all, all these strategic, important, long-term plans and plans have become more of such a chat room in the Riigikogu, an arena, and, given our rules of procedure, they are rather a hearing of reports. So this is a serious place of thinking for all of us who are in opposition or coalition: what role does Parliament play? But now, in fact and specifically, some thoughts on the use of European Union money, which is extremely important. What I want to say is that we need to focus on ensuring that the role of non-refundable aid continues to decline and that we increasingly focus on financial instruments, these are loans, guarantees, guarantees, acquisitions of holdings, which also concern 'capital' issues. I think they are much more important than non-refundable aid, given the future, and they will also help to improve the quality of business plans, if we mean entrepreneurship. Certainly, too, that money coming back from financial instruments is so-called "reusable money" and, once it has been recovered from circulation, it will, as a rule, no longer be subject to the priorities defined by the European Union and we will therefore be able to implement our priorities. This is very important in this context when we are talking about reducing our dependence on European Union subsidies. With this free money, we can make independent decisions and realise our priorities. So that we do not need all the money to co-finance the use of European Union money, it is very important for us to make our own regional policy, even at national level. Regional policy has also been discussed here. It's extremely important. Undoubtedly, European money has increased the quality of life and helped to develop life both in cities and in rural areas, but unfortunately, research shows that regional differences have also increased as a result of the use of European money. We must be aware that the priorities and content of the common agricultural policy, as well as the content of the rural development plan, are increasingly environmental policy and less and less regional policy. If we look at developments since the Estonian state joined the European Union, what has taken place during these financial periods, then both are increasingly environmental policy and less and less regional policy there. Finally, a very specific remark, which also concerns the Fair Transfer Fund. I am extremely sorry that the current government coalition has decided to approach very narrowly and perhaps also because of party political interests. The use of the fund is limited to Ida-Virumaa and only to Ida-Virumaa. We cannot extend the use of this money even after the administrative reform to those regions that used to be Ida-Virumaa, such as Aseri and perhaps some other regions. This is not a sensible decision. But I would like to point out that we should be able to look a little further on such long-term plans and a little more broadly. It should also be more geared towards entrepreneurship and job creation. So thank you very much for listening and for the strength of our next discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U108	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for your good wishes. Let's move on from here. Now I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Central Party Oudekki Loone. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Today and now, when talking about euro money, this must be done first and foremost through green glasses. Among other things, not only when we talk about euro money, but when we talk about public investment at all, when we talk about Estonia's future at all, we need to put on green glasses. It's just economically, too. If a market as big as Europe turns green, it would be foolish to ignore it. However, when we have these glasses in front of us, we can see very clearly that we have one key issue there. And this is the energy of Estonia under the conditions of oil shale. Before we go to any green future, we have to answer this question: what happens to the oil shale sector, whether we close it or we do not close it? About one billion tons of oil shale has been extracted in the Estonian oil shale industry for more than a hundred years. Just as much oil shale has not yet been extracted from its 4.8 billion tons of oil shale stock. As much as we've taken out, we still have an active supply. So we have our own efficient and cheap energy source. It doesn't make sense to give it up. Some would say it was stupid. There are people who say it's criminal. Well, we're not shutting down the oil shale industry. But what do we do if we still have those green glasses on? Of course, we must not compromise nature conservation; we must not compromise the health of oil shale workers, the health of the people of the oil shale region in general. So here's the answer we should be looking at. When we talk about a fair and ecological energy transition, it must have a label on it: pure oil shale. We need to put our green turn money, investments, first of all to create a clean oil shale industry. If we just spread the money out there, like rain, it's nice for a moment, everyone plants the tree, but then we'll be back where we were before, looking at each other, asking, but now where our industry is, where our growth is, where our good life is? And yes, pure oil shale is possible. Look at this region 30 years ago, 40 years ago and now the gap is noticeable. Of course, more investment needs to be made, more research needs to be done. We're not just talking about catching CO2. We are talking about the whole circular economy, about waste management being sensible until the mining areas used have to be restored, so that there is no devastated land, so that we do not feel that there has been some kind of nuclear war from there, but that it will be taken back to nature, as we can do with our peat mines, among other things. Thus, the maximum amount of R &amp; I investment in oil shale technology research, the use of oil shale technology. You don't have to cut it, you don't have to save it. It is up to us to say: whatever it takes, as the head of the European Central Bank once said. Whatever it takes to have pure independent energy. If Europe gives itself a new face with green policy, we will give our energy sector, our oil shale sector, a new face, as we are doing somewhat already. Estonia's share in this fair transition fund is only due to the fact that Estonia had the brains to send a very expert representative to the European Commission, who pointed out that we also have such mineral resources that need support. Excellent! Among other things, when it comes to European policies, the CO2 quota system might need to be revised. We see an increase in the price of energy everywhere: Germany, Italy, France, the largest industrialised countries in Europe. It was mentioned here that productivity has stagnated. This is one of the reasons why productivity stagnates, why industry is leaving Europe. We must not make green policy so that we shoot a fly with a cannon. It is up to us to create a Europe like this, an Estonia that has high-tech production, where we have all the benefits of an industrial society, but which does not destroy the planet and where workers do not pay with their health. So pure oil shale and not only oil shale, but pure Estonia, clean Europe, that should be our goal and our guiding principle. Once again, when we have our own energy, it allows us to turn Ida-Virumaa into an industrial centre in Estonia. Biopharmaceutical, materials industry. The whole of Europe is asking today for natural building materials, insulation materials. We could significantly expand the use of the conventional chemical industry. We have people who know the subject. If we are able to offer our own energy source a firm price to our industry for a long time, it will create a very excellent fertile soil where our people's fantasy, the capacity for innovation, which is basically endless, can always continue to grow. From this growth, we can do revolutionary things. We can be the first country in the world to say: we deal with the legacy of the industrial revolution as planned, we clean our land, our air and our water, we adopt a systematic approach to waste policy, where the state ensures that waste is recycled as widely as possible so that it can be collected comfortably. This means that we re-introduce the old industrial landscapes, bring them back to life. This means cleaning up pollution from inland waters, i.e. investing in new technologies. It means a lot of thinking, a lot of thinking. Not electric cars, which are actually a dead end for today's technology, but free public transport, accessible to everyone, which satisfies most of the transport needs and which allows these few times, if necessary, to use a normal car. This allows us to make green Estonia, accessible Estonia, safe Estonia. On the other hand, the replacement of asbestoseterinite, a large state investment, but perhaps in 30 years' time, perhaps in 10 years' time, we won't see any asbestoseterinite roofs, and we've also cleaned up what some people have put in the roads and everywhere else. In short, made in Estonia, referred to as a soft, clean, safe product. Estonia - organic, clean, safe country. We use our resources and our qualities well. We've got oil shale, we're making it pure oil shale. We're small, but we're high quality and organic. We are the European country that best combines industrial production, a clean planet, a safe living environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U110	Thank you. Thank you very much. I now ask for a representative of the Reform Party Group of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it has been agreed at European Union level that the response to the crisis must be comprehensive, rapid and sustainable. And the European Economic Recovery Plan requires large-scale public and private investment at European level, there is a need to create more value-added jobs, to eliminate the damage caused by the pandemic and, at the same time, to support green and digital priorities. The main instrument for achieving these objectives is the same euro money, in particular the European Union's long-term budget and the European Union's recovery facility supporting it, as well as the Fair Transition Fund and other funds. A temporary, one-off, emergency recovery plan will help address the consequences of the pandemic and help Member States' economies to recover. According to the European Commission, the implementation of the re-launch plan could generate an additional 2% of GDP by 2024 and create an additional 2 million jobs at EU level. According to the Ministry of Finance, Estonia receives a total of 4.65 billion euros from structural grants and rehabilitation and durability funding in 2021 to 2027. But even more importantly with these big numbers, the joint resolution of the European Union will bring us back more than these billions. The point is that our economy depends heavily on exports and our main export partners are in the European Union. Therefore, the well-being of our partners' economies will also contribute to the development of our economies. In order to relaunch the economy and accelerate development, it is necessary to move forward rapidly with a national recovery plan, so that it can be confirmed earlier by the planned deadline, so that this money can actually be mobilised. Of course, we want stakeholders and the wider public to be involved in this process. This is also necessary, of course, so that the European Union does not lose its competitive advantage over other countries, compared to those countries where the crisis-stricken economy has already been supported or started to be supported by different programmes. Therefore, any national obstruction in the Riigikogu means stopping the process that has been prepared for a long time and inhibiting investment opportunities. Rumours that Estonia can take out a loan on its own. Yes, we can, we have a historically low loan burden compared to other countries, and so far we still have a good chance of obtaining credit. Unfortunately, we have also seen in practice that loan money has gone into running costs and increasing government expenditure, but at the same time, for example, higher infrastructure investments have been made through subsidies from the European Union budget. It is therefore appropriate to stress here that, for example, in the case of the re-launching scheme, this rule has still been agreed to avoid covering current budgetary expenditure by means of the re-launch scheme's money. The loan must be of a one-off, temporary and clearly defined volume. The use of credit must be well-designed, also for well-thought-out and well-targeted areas and for investments that will bring back greater added value in the future. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U112	You can if you want it. Would you like some? Yeah. Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U113	Thank you! Okay. And, in the case of the re-launch plan, we are still talking about the fact that the use of this money first requires a comprehensive national plan and, in general, principles and objectives have been agreed. For example, it has been agreed that these activities should first respond to the country-specific recommendations already identified in previous years, which have been screened. This is done within the framework of the European semester. Okay. Secondly, the substantial contribution to green and digital transition still needs to be assessed. Green economy: decarbonisation of industry, promotion of the circular economy, protection of biodiversity, transport. Or digital transition: improving digital connections, digital skills, developing and introducing new technologies, cybersecurity. In short, the principle is still that re-launch plans focus on reforms and investments that create greater added value in the future. Perhaps this could be emphasised here in particular, that the re-launch money would have access, better access also for small and medium-sized enterprises, and the regional development principle mentioned above should be taken into account. The objectives also need to be negotiated with national partners, which we want to achieve, whether they are productivity-enhancing targets or welfare gains. One example is hydrogen technology. In addition to building hydrogen supply chains, the development of domestic hydrogen technologies could also be supported. Of course, the Fair Transition Fund, which is intended exclusively for Ida-Virumaa, is intended for the development of the region's future economy and the release of oil shale dependence. We already have a good example, which increases optimism: water filter plant, 700 new jobs. There are more investments coming. In any case, in summary: the Reform Party Group supports progress in the process of planning euro money. We stress the role of the Riigikogu in this process and the involvement of the public. It is in our interest that the investment opportunities open up will support the development of the Estonian economy and ensure a better quality of life for people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U114	Thank you. I ask Kalle Grünthali, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U115	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable performers! Guests! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U116	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U117	First of all, thank you to the rapporteurs for their very thorough presentations! The topics of today's debate are very broad, but I only focus on Ida-Virumaa and the green turn planned there. The government has justified that the heroes will empower Estonian talented people, preserve the environment, provide better quality of life and new jobs, and investment will bring 340 million euros to Ida-Viru County. What could be better? Let's celebrate and clap hands on our wise government. However, listening today to the Minister's speech and to the answers to questions, I somehow remembered a vegetable such as watermelon, which is green on top, but red on the inside. You're asking why. In fact, the materials that were distributed to us before discussing today's issue stated in the concluding section that with the support of euro money, Estonia is better prepared for the future. But the Minister of the Reform Party has not spoken a word about this future. If you don't talk and you don't have the data, then you have to start thinking for yourself. I certainly do not want to argue that this is the only right thing for me to think. There is always an opportunity to contradict the arguments I put forward. So, I would like to try to look at the picture a little bit bigger, because based on this global transformation, which is intended to intervene in the historically established activities and development of Ida-Viru County, there must be [nothing] done without scientific monitoring or analysis, which, by the way, was also referred to today by one of the rapporteurs, Mr Lenno Uusküla. The following problems arise from the red content under the green turn of the sign, as I used watermelon as a comparison, and they are malicious for both the Estonian economy and the people involved in the oil shale industry. First, first of all, what about the workers in this sector? The fact that a large amount of money is allocated from the euro to create new jobs is not a sufficient argument. A government that wishes to make such a change must have a definite plan on where these people will be directed. I can't imagine today's miners being able to manage as IT specialists or neurosurgeons. Many miners, by the way, do not want to become data miners, as noted by today's waitress, Lenno Uusküla. Therefore, the euro money received will not prevent a future social disaster in Ida-Virumaa because the government simply does not have a plan to do so. People are left alone with their worries under the green turn. Secondly, the work experience of historically established miners' dynastics is cut, i.e. in essence, the historical work experience and know-how that we actually need are lost in Estonia, because our earth is very rich in mineral resources, with rare earth elements, which are a crucial component of the modern military industry and which are known to exist in only four countries in the world, by the way, including Estonia. I cannot understand why such negative decisions are made to Estonia. A Chinese proverb says not to give me fish, but to give me a pole. For some reason, our government chooses to prefer fish. Why is there some kind of green turn sign to destroy our industry's ability and whose interests are really at stake here? The Minister of the Reform Party gave virtually no answer to my question of what will happen to our mineral resources and who will mine them later. There was some incomprehensible talk about discussions in the Ministry of the Environment. I'll continue with a description of one possible scenario. This is because in the future, our natural resources, or national wealth, which is enshrined in the Constitution, if I remember correctly, will probably be mined by the private sector, which of course includes foreign investors. What, then, is the result? The result is that we land with our national wealth, which could instead develop our economy, to the same level as African countries, where mineral resources are mined and profits are made by developed industrialised countries. Therefore, I dare say that a hero is a malicious and unthinkable intention for Estonia, which is not in Estonia's interest. Watermelon is always green on top, but inside it's always red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U118	Thank you. Now I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Eduard Odinets. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U119	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, and live watchers! To my surprise, I am not talking about Ida-Virumaa today, I am talking about culture. Today, the Minister of Finance encouraged all members of the Riigikogu to speak more actively on the substantive issues of the planning of euro instruments. So that's what I'm doing right now. As a member of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, I express my concern about the opportunities offered by the cultural and creative industries in the new period of the euro. My good colleague from the Ministry of Culture's days, Daniel Raudsepp, Deputy Chancellor of Arts of the Ministry, has said that the economy is not culture, but culture is the economy. The cultural and creative sectors have tried in vain to access the image of euro funds with the necessary investments in the cultural and creative sectors. I'm telling you, it's in vain! For example, investing in cultural and industrial heritage is one of the fastest ways to stimulate the economy. Euro-instruments could improve the situation of building monuments in a tangible way, i.e. to get out of the dead circle of renovation debt, where only a small part of the crashed monuments are supported, while less of the crashed buildings fall apart, reaching the same position. It is important to support the organisation of one building in a holistic way, which will later ensure that it is self-managed, whether as a hotel, a restaurant, a school or another function for local residents and tourists. A third of the total investment in the building fund will be recovered by the State in the form of tax revenue during the year, i.e. 30% of the grant will be self-reproducing. Employment in the construction sector would also significantly increase. According to European Union statistics, up to 40% of construction and maintenance work in the construction sector is carried out in existing buildings and structures. The maintenance and maintenance of monuments, cultural and industrial heritage also has a significant impact on the tourism sector. Cultural tourism is one of the main reasons for travel in both Europe and Estonia. Unfortunately, the government has not found opportunities for such measures in the euro instruments. Or, for example, investments in creative industries. The creative economy is characterised as a highly entrepreneurial sector that provides employment for young workers and is an important engine for the digital economy. Regions with a higher share of the creative economy are more attractive. The creative economy employs nearly 5% of people working in Estonia, and the total income of the sector is about 1.5 billion euros, of which 13% are public subsidies, or about 3% of GDP. For example, agriculture, forestry and fisheries together account for 3.4% of GDP, construction 7%. The export of services to creative enterprises accounts for 5.6% of the exports of services. Or, for example, investments in cultural and sporting events. According to a survey by the Estonian Institute of Economics, the average cost of each cultural and sporting event to the budget of one euro is four euros. This amount varies from 70 cents to 17.8 euros depending on the scale of events and the availability of infrastructure. The average economic impact of events across Estonia is more than half a million euros per event. Cultural and sporting events can, according to studies, be considered very important for counties, as without them 64% of visitors would not have come to the region. On average, one visitor spends 80 euros in the region during the event period: event participation fee, outdoor eating, accommodation, transport. During the events, the number of visitors in local companies will increase by 46%, sales revenue by 42% and profit by 32%. In addition to the direct economic impact, events have an important wider impact: increasing the attractiveness of the region, improving the living environment, apprenticeships for volunteers, etc. As an example of investments in the cultural field in Ida-Virumaa, where I come from, Ida-Virumaa Film Foundation can be found. Support from the Fund is conditional on film producers using products and services in the region (food, accommodation, construction, cosmetics, transport, surveillance, etc.) which are certified by invoices. For example, between 2013 and 2018, film production was supported with a total of EUR 155000 and at the same time film producers bought services in the county for EUR 600000. Perhaps every euro has brought more EUR 3.8. The expected and expected opening of culture does not mean relaunching it, has already been said by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Culture, quoted. That's right, Daniel Ironsmith! Today's much mentioned recovery fund is the face of a digital revolution and a green turn. Estonia's cultural field digitalizes at cosmic speed. Green initiatives in the field of culture are taking a turn. However, the government did not support the cultural and creative sectors at all. This is in spite of the European Parliament resolution, which calls on Member States to allocate at least 2% of the resources of the recovery fund to the cultural and creative sectors, which in the case of Estonia would be around 20 million. But no, the government didn't find that possibility either. In the case of a fair transition, cultural and creative industries will similarly be excluded from support. With billions of classical Structural Funds, the creative industries will be offered a total of EUR 10 million for a period of 7+2 years. As the cultural and creative sectors of the euro area do not seem to be benefiting, the Ministry of Culture has, as far as I know, submitted applications for the relaunch of the sector's Culture 2022 programme, which included the challenges of the digital and green turn of the sector, and for the creation of a cultural accelerator facility to stimulate the sector's development leap. However, as we know, these initiatives do not appear to be in the country's budget strategy either. Rather, it is, as we know, being held together, for example, at the expense of cultural and sporting opportunities for children and young people. I repeat: the economy is not a culture, but culture is an economy. Since the Riigikogu has no decision-making power over the euro instruments, as we have heard many times, I call on the government: let us invest in the culture of the euro funds as well! It'll bring back more than one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U120	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U121	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Urmas Reinsalu for bringing the subject to this hall. This is indeed a crucial issue for Parliament's role in planning the state budget, in planning the country's economic policy. In fact, this debate today could have opened up a little more or revealed how far we have come in developments that have turned Parliament into a rubber stamp. But it is not only that we have a rubber stamp in Parliament anymore, but if we admit quite honestly, what is the functioning of euro money and especially the planned recovery fund, then the Estonian government has also become a rubber stamp, and the Estonian authorities have just had the opportunity to implement policies that have been decided somewhere where the weight of our word is less than one percent. So this debate is not really a debate about money, it is a debate about democracy. This is a debate about whether the most important fundamental principle enshrined in our constitution is that the highest authority is the people who exercise their power by election and, in these elections, give a mandate to Parliament, which holds the irons of a public purse, is in fact no longer real or real at all. I am very sorry if we get lost in billions or hundreds of millions, or even smaller sums, and we are about to deal with the distribution of this money right now, and all of that, how much we get and what we get. I am very sorry if we get stuck in the first lines of the recovery fund, which says: oh, there is a 0 percentage of your own contribution, unlike other euro money, and you have to pay back less than you can. No, it's not. It's not like you have to pay back less than you can. However, we are talking about this, or we are sticking to the fact that we are talking about euro money in terms of our spending, but we are not talking about how this spending will be paid back afterwards, either financially or politically. With regard to the recovery fund, one part of which is the fair transfer fund: what we are giving in return for money is the sovereignty of our tax policy and the sovereignty of our fiscal policy. We practically didn't talk about that today. The sovereignty of tax policy is that we have a Riigikogu that decides on which taxes, to whom and to what extent taxes and levies are imposed. It was not agreed with the recovery fund how it would be repaid. But everyone who is even a little honest is admitting that it is still coming by the fact that the European Commission itself will at one point introduce a tax to serve the reimbursements. In addition, we are not only giving up tax policy. This means that the Estonian Riigikogu does not actually have the opportunity to say in the case of any taxes that we do not impose them or that we impose them by a percentage more or less. All these passionate disputes over the income tax system, the rate of VAT or the rate of excise duty are losing their content, because somebody else somewhere else decides what the rate is or what we tax, and it is just up to us to press the green button, because there is no other way, because that is the decision in Brussels. But we also give away the sovereignty of our budget. We see today, and it came out very well from today's debate, that we are being put on a table with money, a huge chunk of money on the table, everyone talking enthusiastically about billions, but, dear friends, you can spend and not spend there, you can make a heroe, but you cannot develop your traditional energy sector. It is, in fact, a betrayal of budgetary sovereignty, and it has become so great that it can no longer be quite frankly said that we are the ones who decide how to spend our budget. Together with co-financing, which is constantly increasing, we are locking up an ever larger piece of our budget, our budget expenditure, without having the right to be involved in what we have priority areas or what we do not have. I would like to disprove this widespread myth that European Union money is either free or cheap. Not free or cheap. Not for the same reasons I was talking about, free or cheap. It's just that this side of the fee is mostly political, but it's not free in financial terms either. In fact, especially when we talk about the recovery fund again, we have to pay back that money. We'll pay it back in two or three different ways. Firstly, we realise that there are not many other options than that there will be common European taxes at one point and that this tax will be collected in Estonia, that money will go to Brussels, that there will be a large boiler to serve the repayments. Secondly, we all understand, and no one is denying that our contribution to the European Union budget will increase, again, to the spending of our budget. Thirdly, we all understand that from the next budget period we are already a paying-up country in the European Union. Moreover, we realise that today, with the recovery facility, there are a number of countries that can get a lot more out of it than they pay in. These countries are mainly in southern Europe, in other words, with the money collected from our national economies, we subsidise the economy of southern Europe by granting loans or subsidies to them, which will eventually be collected from us and we will pay them money. I would like to specifically touch on a fair transfer fund, which is neither fair nor a transfer. We are told of this money as some mysterious big money, 340 million in six years. Wow, okay! But what is the actual situation? In fact, the oil shale sector generates revenue of 400 million euros per year, tax revenue of 100 million euros, a large part of this income is export income, it comes to us from elsewhere in Estonia, into the Estonian economy. And we will replace this revenue with subsidies scattered over a period of six years. In six years! It's a joke. It doesn't make any transition. It buys out some electoral groups or municipalities in the short term so that they do not make too much criticism of the planned destruction of one of our important economic sectors and energy independence. I can't help but wonder that it's spoken of as a good thing. There is nothing fair about the Fair Transfer Fund and there is no transition. This is making our economy part of the colonial economy. So I'm glad we started this debate today. But I think the biggest questions stayed in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U122	Thank you. And now I'm asking you to hand over the negotiating microphone to Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U123	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I intervened because I heard that Estonia was falling victim to a conspiracy, that there was going to be Europe's supremacy over us. I started to find out exactly where it was coming from. Perhaps a good manager would once again give the answer to the previous speaker, because he has such interesting thoughts. But what I was able to identify was that this conspiracy started already in Estonia on 11 June 2020, when the government confirmed its positions on this recovery plan. Further on, our Prime Minister in the Council approved this matter. I'm guessing, in fact, for the approval of this subject by the government... the Minister of Finance. He looks very similar to the guy who just went to the remote and whose name I don't want to name here. It was also interesting... news that in the future, the European Commission will impose taxes on us and we will lose our sovereignty. Once again, I would like to know what he then presented to the government and what this government approved. Is it really the case that the European Commission is going to impose taxes on Estonia without us being able to... It seems that the minister has taken a sharp question to the government who... decisions...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U124	Good waitress! Honourable Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U125	...do nothing. He took it, and the government unanimously approved it, and he remained silent. I don't know what's gonna happen now. Maybe we should start over. Perhaps the Minister of Finance and the current Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu will speak out, how he was then removed from government meetings and how he did not have the right to vote there for two years and what was his point in Estonian politics if only he was wise afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U126	Thank you. A procedural question, Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U127	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! No coherent sentence could be understood from the words of a good colleague Jürgen Ligi, because it was simply a bad communication connection. It was interesting what he was saying, but since it was not possible to understand it, could he submit it in writing so that he could at least record it in the verbatim of the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-06_U128	Thank you. Yes, I'm sure the speeches will go into the verbatim. I agree that the connection was very bad sometimes, but then it improved a little. So, any more negotiation requests? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. First of all, I would like to thank the Special Committee on State Budget Control for bringing this issue here. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs, the chairman of the committee, Urmas Reinsalu, and the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimit. I would like to thank the researcher of macroeconomics at the University of Tartu and Professor Lenno Uusküla, Head of Research at the Centre for Monitoring Development. I thank all of you, members of the Riigikogu, for your questions and your thoughts. The debate is closed and the first item is closed. We are not going to the second item, because it is not on the agenda. The sitting is adjourned.
