ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! We will begin the Monday session of the 16th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries, to come to the Riigikogu's speech chair or to connect via the Internet. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U2	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Riigikogu! Last year, a number of humanitarian scientists and organizations presented a public address, which raises concerns about the consistency of Estonian science in the field, the fundamental and applied research on Estonia and, more generally, the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The appeal points out that the overall underfunding of Estonian science and the formal orientation of funding policy towards international excellence and technological innovation poses a threat to the broad-based and sectoral diversity of Estonian science, to the continuity of studies related to Estonia, to the continuity of the Estonian language and culture of applied research, and thereby to the fundamentals of the Estonian state. One example of underfunding is the Estonian Literary Museum and the Estonian Folklore Archives. The current situation is enough to preserve the current situation. One of the most important storage sites of Estonian memory cannot be developed further, as the storage conditions of collections and the working conditions of researchers and staff are below the level of the 21st century. The closure of the Centre of Arts of the University of Tartu this year is also a direct consequence of the lack of financial resources. This takes place in a situation where the staff of the Centre of Arts have done their work well and dedicatedly, but the financial situation of the University has not enabled the Viljandi Culture Academy and the Centre of Arts in Tartu to be maintained at the same time. I am therefore going to ask the Minister for Education and Research a question which asks six questions to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U3	Thank you. Now please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U4	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! The Cultural Commission delivers a draft of the members of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. In connection with the early termination of the mandate of Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, on the basis of her own declaration, we will present a draft by which a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, Priit Sibul, will be appointed as a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council in place of Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, who has been recalled from the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. All duly completed documents have already been completed and submitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U5	Thank you. Please, the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U6	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the e-Identification and Trust Services Act, the Identity Documents Act and the State Fees Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, a draft law to prevent unfair commercial practices in the agricultural and food supply chain. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs in the Riigikogu when processing this bill. And thirdly, the draft law amending the planning law and related amendments to other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of State Administration. These three draft laws have been transmitted electronically through the draft information system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and one inquiry. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. We are now about to conduct a presence check. One moment, please! Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U8	92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and there is no 9. We will go to the next item today, which is the clarification and approval of this week's agenda. In particular, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to remove the seventh item on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, which is the debate on the Internal Security Development Plan 2020 to 2030. As far as I know, there are no other proposals. As a result of this proposal, we will start preparing the voting on the agenda. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I will put the agenda of this week to the vote, along with one of the amendments made by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U9	With the result of 82 votes against 6, no abstentions, the agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U10	Let's move on to today's questions on the agenda. The first question is the question of the secrecy of important crisis information submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester, Raivo Tamme, Mikhail Lotman, Urmas Reinsalu, Andres Metsoja, Priit Sibula, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Üllar Saaremäe and Tarmo Kruusimäe on 8 March 2021. The inquiry shall bear number 59. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester, to introduce this inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U11	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, we have handed over an inquiry with nine members of the Isamaa Group to Kaja Kallas. This is because, at the beginning of this year, the new Prime Minister promised to share information with the members of the Riigikogu on how to work with the COVID crisis, the everyday situation, how it will be resolved, etc. And there's nothing weird about that. I would remind you that the honourable Speaker of the Riigikogu, the previous Prime Minister in the previous coalition, did a similar in the previous government, he shared information throughout the first wave of last year. He shared it well, the members of the Riigikogu had information and the members of the Riigikogu were able to hold discussions in the light of this information, analyse with various experts, different people who are more or less involved in different analytics. As a result, members of the Riigikogu were able to give an overview as a reflection of the government and, if necessary, to the scientific council. Now, after Kaja Kallas' promise at some point, nothing really happened. And then, when an additional request was made that we would still like to have this overview, the next stage was that, for some reason, it began to be shared with the chairmen of the political groups, with the chairmen of the Commission and with the chairmen of the political parties. However, those who did not receive it were simple members of the Riigikogu who were not given this opportunity. We did a new address by the Fatherland in writing, where we asked all of us to receive this information. Finally, we received this information, all members of the Riigikogu began to receive it. But we noticed, as a new surprise, that the documents have an AK rating for in-house use. This means that we cannot share this information with anyone. We cannot reason with anyone on the basis of this information or come to any new conclusions. That is why we have some questions. I would point out that the daily information received by the members of the Riigikogu is classified for five years: in 2026 we will have the first opportunity to discuss this information with anyone at all if we wanted to. We have a desire to understand what it comes from. I think that at this point more information is better than less information; more debate is better than less debate. We want to know what has changed this spring compared to the spring of 2020, when the first wave of the crisis was. I would point out that the [AK-signs] are not personalised data. If there were personalised data, it would be understandable that they could not be distributed 'broadly'. This is not personalised data. Perhaps we want to know what has changed since last May when we received similar reports without AK marks, and this certainly thanks to today's speaker, the previous Prime Minister. In addition to the AK marks, we also want to know about the support measures that have been put in place for the business sector and which are already in place today. But let us not forget that there was some moment in the intervening period when different restrictions were imposed, but at the same time there was no clear signal given to the business sector about what possible support measures would be put in place when restrictions were imposed. It must be said that Kaja Kallas himself stated that, if the government comes up with any restrictions, there should also be a clear compensation mechanism for the damage suffered. This has not happened in the meantime. We'd like to ask you about that. In addition, we also want to know about the vaccination, in which we must say in retrospect that all this disclosure and confusion have been quite large. We have also asked in Question Time over the years, and we have also written our questions here in a specific question, that the Prime Minister agrees with the criticism that vaccination has not been what we have expected, and that information is not at the level that we have expected. Finally, we want an overview of Estonia's commitments and rights regarding the joint procurement of vaccines in the European Union. Different topics. This kind of information and communication movement is important to us. And I would certainly point out that, on the very last day, the Prime Minister will come to answer us: he has 20 days of sitting and it is the 19th day of sitting. Could have come sooner, but really, the law didn't oblige him. For a month and a half, he was able to hold off on this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U12	Thank you for introducing me. Thank you very much. Now the Prime Minister has the floor to answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U13	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioners! The first question concerned the overview that is being shared with you. First of all, I would like to clarify that. Last spring, the Prime Minister shared with the Riigikogu an overview made by his advisor, put together a concentrate, or not at all what the members of the government themselves saw. This information was distributed from March to June, and yet the second wave began in October. October, November, December, January until the new government, no information was shared with the Riigikogu. Secondly, these are two completely different information. I understood [so] and it was my wish that the members of the Riigikogu would be in the same information room as the members of the government, i.e. you will be given exactly the same report from the contingency centre as the members of the government will see. But no good deed will be punished. If you want to get less information about what we're going to do about the concentration of infection, then we can make it smaller and not share this report further. These reports shall include an overview of the authorities necessary for decision-making. I would point out that they are not secret, as you say, but for internal use. The reason why they are freely available for internal use, i.e. members of the Riigikogu, is that the lawyers of the agencies that provide input to the report assess whether the information contained in the report is intended for internal use under the Public Information Act. For internal use, information on the functions and composition of the structure unit of the holder of information relating to internal security, the formulation of national defence policies, the organisation of national defence, including planning, preparation and management of the military defence of the State, or the management of the protection of state secrets and external classified information, an official and a staff member and his duties, where the disclosure of such information would jeopardise national security or the protection of state secret and external classified information, as well as any other information provided for by law. It reflects information gathered and synthesized by national authorities and institutions in the course of their core activities and is intended for internal use by those institutions. The wider the circle with which this information is shared, the less information is put into such reports. Now it's the place to choose. Indeed, if you want, we can make such a small concentrate and you can share it with anyone. You will receive this information even then, as it was last year, after all, from the press. But these reports are a little more detailed. So it's a question of choice which one you want. We can do both ways. If you don't want this bigger thing, we will of course stop presenting it. The second question now: further restrictions have hit many business sectors and the compensatory mechanism should accompany these restrictions. Yes, you yourself quoted me, and I also believe that, along with the introduction of restrictions, the implementation of compensatory measures must be agreed more quickly. When, a year ago, the government took 18 calendar days from the moment of establishing the emergency situation, i.e. 12 March 2020 until the draft additional budget was sent to the Riigikogu, it was launched on 2 April 2020, then the additional budget for 2021 was sent to the Riigikogu on 18 March, starting from the introduction of the outright restrictions on 11 March, and it took seven calendar days. Today, the government has also approved draft regulations on support measures to be put in place by ministers, and they are all aimed at getting compensation mechanisms to work as soon as possible and for businesses in distress to receive this assistance quickly. The third question: "Estonia's vaccination has also been accompanied by a lack of disclosure of information and a great deal of confusion. The rate of vaccination is low, the vaccination rate for people on risk lists and priority lists is incomplete, the geographical frequency of vaccination is uneven, etc. " Questions about vaccination. Firstly, the rate of vaccination in Estonia is third in Europe and we are quite high in the world. The main problem with vaccination is that we have a shortage of vaccines. The supplies we have agreed to will not be delivered in time and therefore we will not be able to inject quickly. All the vaccines that will come, we will use them as soon as possible. If you ask me what is the biggest problem with vaccination, it's that the vaccination plan wasn't ready before. The rate of vaccination, as I said, depends on the receipt of the vaccines. And here I have to thank the previous government for not putting all the eggs in one basket, but for having concluded these purchase agreements with the various vaccine manufacturers, which will help to mitigate the risks. We can clearly see in Europe that those countries that have ordered large quantities of vaccines from only one producer are currently very, very distressed. Luckily we don't have it. The organisation of vaccination will depend on these deliveries. Now, as we have a shortage of vaccines, our primary objective is to vaccinate older people and groups at risk, in order to bring them out of risk, which can also bring our medical system out of pressure. We have seen during major vaccinations that older people want to vaccinate especially with their family doctors and nurses whom they trust, and that is why we have now directed these vaccines mainly to family doctors. In order to better organise vaccinations with family doctors, we have had great help with the system of ordering vaccines made by Sixfold, which takes into account the size of the risk groups of family doctors and enables family doctors to monitor logistically how far their vaccine is now. Family doctors are generally satisfied with this ordering system. Within the first week, when this system has worked, all 785 Estonian family doctors have been able to order, and according to nearly 55000 doses of vaccine. So, in any case, thanks to the private sector here for contributing! As I said, right now the focus is on getting us to vaccinate older people. We would like to see 70% vaccination coverage in the 70+ age group by May. At least 288000 people have been vaccinated at least once on 19 April, of which 85000 people have been given a full course. The coverage is 21.62% of the total population and 26.77% of the adult population. The coverage of older than 70 years is 59.13%. It must be pointed out in particular that some counties have already done very well. For example, in two counties, these are Hiiumaa and Saaremaa is already more than 72% covered by more than 80 vaccinations. And in three counties - Läänemaa, Raplamaa and Järvamaa - the coverage of people aged over 80 is over 64% and in seven counties 55%. So we're moving on quietly. The hope is that we will have enough vaccines in May so that we can reopen the major vaccination centers, where we can also vaccinate in the younger age group accordingly. The fourth question: "In addition, please provide an overview of the commitments and rights taken by Estonia in the framework of the joint procurement of the European Union and give a separate schedule of currently known supplies of vaccines, setting out the forecast volumes of vaccines arriving in Estonia. Whether and what steps you are taking to increase the number of doses of vaccines at the high tide of the current crisis (additional support purchases, lending from other countries, etc.). "As I have already said, thanks to the decisions of the previous government, we are also participating in the joint procurement of vaccines against the COVID-19, in which today there are eight vaccines against COVID-19 producers in the so-called European vaccination portfolio in order to dispel the risks that could materialise in the development of vaccines. Today we have pre-purchase agreements with six vaccine manufacturers out of eight producers at European Union level. These are AstraZeneca, Sanofi, Janssen Pharmaceutica, Curevac and Pfizer-BionTech. Four manufacturers have reached the marketing authorisation: AstraZeneca, Janssen Pharmaceutica, Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech. None of the pre-purchase agreements concluded by the European Union against COVID-19 vaccines is mandatory for any Member State to accede. But as I have already said, it is positive that Estonia has joined five of these pre-purchase agreements. As a result, we now have vaccines coming from at least three manufacturers. The supply varies, but it is linked to the fact that they are simply produced too little. Estonia has applied for more than 3 million vaccine doses, some 4 million vaccine doses, covering more than 2 million people, on the basis of pre-purchase agreements. In April and May, the estimated delivery amounts are 939536 doses, from which 70620 doses are currently received. It should not be too optimistic that all the doses I have said will be received, because so far these projected quantities have not responded to actual deliveries. What have we done to increase these doses of vaccine? Firstly, we have been in close contact with the European Commission and other Member States to obtain additional doses. To date, our situation has also been taken into account, so we have received 150,000 additional doses from Pfizer-BionTech with the last decision, a total of 215,000 doses of vaccine. We have also been in contact with governments in other countries to obtain these doses so-called "borrowers" so that we can have vaccines in the second quarter. If there are countries that do not use these vaccines, we could use these vaccines ourselves and increase the rate of vaccination. It has also been under discussion whether scientific cooperation is possible, but in a way that Estonia has previously cooperated with different pharmaceutical companies. But we don't have that kind of deal right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U14	Thank you. You have questions, too. Let's get to the questions. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U15	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister, for these answers. You know, that's how we're here: you, me and five years of classified corona information. It would still come back to that, all the more so as my higher education is actually some kind of information analysis: gathering information, analysing information, drawing conclusions from it. You pointed out in your answers that, compared to the information that Jüri Ratas sent to us, members of the Riigikogu, when you yourself, as a member of the Riigikogu, received this information, it was somehow generalised. It wasn't! I can send you all the e-mails that came to us every day, I still have everything. All this information relating to official activities is detailed: what steps the PBA is taking, how other organisations [are] doing, how the virus spreads geographically and what steps are taken geographically, how other countries are currently working and what steps are being taken. There was a huge amount of information on many, many pages, very specific. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I don't understand this answer in this sense, so what's this different now than last year? Once again, we would like to analyze this information, share it. Tell me what's two years apart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U16	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U17	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Firstly, again, I would point out that this information was shared last time in March-April and early June, but throughout the second wave this information has not been shared in any form with the members of the Riigikogu. Until the new government came. I have not compared them to us and the reports I received as a member of the Riigikogu. It's just, the difference is, at the time, a counselor made some kind of concentrate that he sent out to everyone. I am now sharing this information, precisely the report on which the government is making decisions, from which nothing has been removed or any concentrate has been made. If you want to get less information that we're going to make some kind of concentrate, that's what we can do. I just thought that in order for the members of the Riigikogu and the members of the government to be in the common information room, you might find it interesting to read these reports. If you want to get less information in order to share it better, we'll make some kind of concentration out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U18	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U19	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Now, for the sake of truth, I'm taking today's report, here's 12 more. Please indicate which of the additional pages is now so sensitive to information. I see that there are several Estonian maps, there are several different graphs, and one is for other countries. Which of these, such as Annex 7 or Annex 9, is sensitive to be published in five years' time? Please specify precisely the number of this annex.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U20	[[Remote connection]] Firstly, this must be requested from the authorities which have indicated this information for internal use. Secondly, it is not classified information, it is internal information. For example, so that members of the Riigikogu can prepare questions for Question Time or what is needed to carry out their work and evaluate government decisions. I really haven't personally mentioned anything. But as I said in answering the previous question, if you want to get less information, I'm sure I'll ask some officials to just do to you what we can share with everyone and not share this situation centre report any more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U21	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U22	[[Remote connection]] Prime Minister! Here's the question. Suppose the information you have provided about this crisis is not true. I would point out, for example, that hospitals are overfilled, there are no places, and that the number of people infected is insane. But if this information is not true, are you willing to resign and take political responsibility? The question is whether you are willing to resign, not that this information is not true. Basically, I don't want to say for a moment that this information isn't true right now. And the second question is that you've used the word "mom" six times. Is "um" also involved in the secrecy of crisis information?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U23	[[Remote connection]] I'm sorry, I didn't get that ending. But I'm telling you, I'm not making these reports myself. I'm not putting that information in there myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U24	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U25	Thank you. Prime Minister, I wish you strength in your work. But I still have a question in the form of a prayer. Namely, I read all these reports and I believe that this information should not be for professional use, but it would be essential for the broad masses to master this information and to be able to see the developments that are taking place either in their municipality, in their county, in the number of sick hospitals, etc. But since you said it was for official use, and you have repeatedly stressed that you can also send a smaller concentrate, which is not for official use, I really have a request to you: I do wish it, send me this smaller concentrate so that I can compare this material, which is for official use, with what is not. The part that threatens the security of the Estonian state and has been declared for official use will then also be revealed. I could find out, I'm really interested.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U26	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I personally do not deal with the drafting of these reports, and I must ask a separate person to take out all the information that can be shared more widely with the masses, and then it will be sent to you separately. Not the report on the basis of which the government makes decisions. If it's more important to you that the information you want to share, the information we're sharing now to make decisions, that's how you can do it. If you have a specific question about some of the information that is in this report and what you certainly want to share, then I think that may be asked specifically by those who put that information there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U27	Procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U28	Yes, it is an important procedural issue, so that the protocol is fully understood. I do not want to impose a permanent burden on the authorities or on the Prime Minister, I just want to get this concentrate once to compare what makes it different from the material for official use, to find out the part that threatens the national security of Estonia, as the law says, and we can draw longer-term conclusions. Maybe there's a need to change the law here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U29	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! As you know, the rule of law is characterised by the spread of free information so that citizens can make responsible decisions. On the other hand, in administrative countries, there is usually a secrecy of information or a declaration of it only for official use. We don't even understand what's out there in the secret reports you're sending. We do not understand what are the great threats to the constitutional order of Estonia that needed riot police here before the Riigikogu. These are all such things that are characteristic of the administrative state. I understand that you are a great advocate of the rule of law. How do you explain these deviations from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U31	[[Remote connection]] Like I said, when our government started, we started giving you these reports. I say: while you were in the government, why weren't they shared, and why was this information, as you say, classified June, July, August, September, October, November, December, January? Eight months! Why was that information classified? Good question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U32	Mart Helme, please! I'm sorry! I'm asking Mikhail Lotman for a microphone. He has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U33	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Do you think that answers such as "You are a fool" fit into the Riigikogu or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U34	Thank you. If you ask such a question, it is certainly not appropriate. But every questioner can ask his or her question, and any answerer will answer that question himself. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U35	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! Mikhail Lotman took half the line out of my mouth, and I wanted to say exactly the same thing: can't you see from the sidelines that your whole performance is like this: you're stupid and you're stupid, and you're bullying me at all! It's just not appropriate. It's not appropriate! But you don't understand it one way or another. My question is very simple. But why can't basic information be available all the time as a widely advertised website, a bulletin or whatever? We have such great organisations as StratCom and SITKE, from which we always get [information]. Is there not enough workforce in the State Chancellery to share such a website and incessant and accessible online information for people who lose jobs etc., etc., all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U36	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. My answer is in no way derogatory to the questioner. I just want to point out that right now it feels like no good deed will go unpunished. My decision was to give you this information, but now it's somehow going to hit me, it's somehow been a mistake. It is simply a question of why this information was not public from June until January when the new government came. The second wave began in October. It would have been necessary to share all this information with the members of the Riigikogu since then, but it had not been done. Now, as I said, I made this decision: Members of the Riigikogu receive exactly the same basic information that the members of the government receive in order to make their decisions. It's that decision. If the authorities that share information have indicated it for internal use, this is not the decision of the Prime Minister. This is the decision of these authorities why one or the other information is for internal use. We have been sharing information with the public all this time since January: what is the state of the infection indicators that we have with the situation in hospitals. We've been sharing this information all along. If you have any good ideas about how to do it better, of course I'll listen. It just seems to me that it's a little unfair that you didn't share any information while you were in the government, and now you're telling me that we're giving enough information. At least we share this information with members of the Riigikogu. This may not be quite fair, [what you say].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U37	Procedural question, Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U38	Thank you. Honourable President of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas! You have been so experienced in holding sittings for so long that I just wanted to be more specific. Several colleagues earlier said that Kaja Kallas, in his reply, told them that they were fools themselves. I'm listening here, and the sound I'm hearing on the right side of this hall, so there hasn't been such a sentence. Is there any other sound on the Internet or on the other side of the hall? Or did colleagues just make a mistake, hear the Prime Minister wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U39	Exactly the same sound. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! Generally, documents with different components with different levels of secrecy or confidentiality, in this case, most of the information we receive is pure public information. These sentences or paragraphs, which are at a different level, i.e. the AK level in this case, are normally mentioned separately by the authorities. That's how it's done. My friendly recommendation to the State Chancellery is that they can do it in the future, so there wouldn't be a problem either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U41	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It can be passed on to institutions. But it's just an additional job to pick out the information that will be shared with the members of the Riigikogu in the future, which can then be passed on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U42	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U43	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I very much enjoyed your view that in this crisis, members of the Riigikogu receive the same information as members of the government. But in order to bring reality together with reality, I ask whether your position also concerns this information when there is a threat to constitutional order. Should we or should we not receive this information as members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U44	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. This information, which is shared in the Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, also has certain limitations on how it is shared. It's gotta go according to the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U45	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U46	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Why don't you briefly tell us what such secret data is that could so badly harm the security of our country and all the things they're supposed to damage. And please don't say that childish phrase, "But the previous government, too..."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U47	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Personally, I have not mentioned anything in this report for internal use, and this must be asked by the authorities that provided this information. I do not think it should be the Prime Minister's work to state what is [AK] and what is not. The assessment is on the whole document that we get for the exact same internal use. Government sessions are not public, cabinet sessions are not public. If we are given this information for internal use there, decisions will be made, the same way will be distributed to Parliament so that you can make your decisions based on the same information. But I don't personally know what kind of information [AK] and what kind aren't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U48	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U49	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Soon we will be able to discuss the conceptual approach of the White Paper in order to improve social interaction. And this is a certain angle of approach like from the bottom up. How have you thought? Heir-Valdor Seeder did say that he would like to have this concentration once. Now, with this sub-document of the White Paper or with this sub-document, I don't know how to approach it, should this situational analysis continue to be available with this White Paper and its guidelines for the wider population? Indeed, official information that should not be disseminated [should] be removed, but a person who is more interested also understands better to correct his behavior.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U50	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It's a good thing you brought this white paper in. The whole point of the White Paper is that we shouldn't be fingering and searching for information, but that information has already been based on a traffic light system that tells us what level of danger we're at. Perhaps people should not be directly concerned about whether they have all the information, but this table will be shaped according to how the situation changes and how these numbers, indicators and metrics change. This is all public crisis.ee website, where you can view these risk levels, the corresponding metrics. And, according to the White Paper consultation, there should also be an action plan for each area: if the level of danger is yellow, we will act in this place, if the level of danger is orange, then we will act differently so that the level of danger does not reach red at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U51	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U52	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I realized that the information that is being sent to us would be able to make one of those concentrates that could be shared with everyone. But how much of this information about the spread of the corona virus in Estonia is there other levels that cannot be shared with the Riigikogu at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U53	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I am just saying that making this concentrate requires further work alongside all these solutions. If there is a great desire not to use all of this to make decisions, but rather to direct it to the public, then we simply need to do further work to create this concentrate. But is there any additional information that is not shared with Parliament? Of course, there is a lot of information in the government that we hear every day, and it is Parliament's job and it is the government's job. And looking at how much trouble I've had because I've decided to share the information that's been based on these decisions with you, I'll think more than once in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U54	Thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations, and ask the Riigikogu to speak to Sven Sester. Please, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I will look at how much you said in today's replies that this is your visit to the Riigikogu. I'm looking at it for interest, you stressed it more than once. But that is not the case, it is not your response to the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu asked you for the long time that you formed the government, and that was, in that sense, your resistance may say that you were not proactive, but the Riigikogu wanted and asked you to share this information with us. And just like I said at the beginning of the inquiry, I guess it went a little bit long. At first you did not want to direct it to all members of the Riigikogu, but really only to the elected ones, as I mentioned earlier: the chairmen of the committees, the chairmen of the political groups and the chairmen of the political parties. This was clearly the initiative of the Riigikogu, but that is why. It's just that I think it's right to mark it right here on this spot. And what remained in your ears today, as you mentioned it a few times, and so did the members of the Riigikogu, who reflected it against you: you came back to the fact that 'but the previous government'. I would like to emphasise once again that we would not be able to give examples that the previous government was the government that brought these unpersonalised data to our table. And as I mentioned earlier, all these different components, which you spoke about today, possible official information, possible geographical information, what is the situation in Põlva or, for example, in Narva, different activities in other countries, all of which were on the table last year in the first wave. In fact, this did not make sense, even though the members of the Riigikogu tried to find out about it from you. Helir-Valdor Seeder asked you to send me [concentration], I can simply compare that through its deductive methods I somehow discover the information that could harm the Estonian state. Mr. Kruusimäe asked you directly to name these extras. In fact, it is incomprehensible which points of information you are sending now are those we should not share. By reading this information, it seems that this is information that we could share and that we should actually share. Madam Prime Minister, consider this a large team in this crisis management. The interest of all of us, both you and the opposition, is in common: making the best possible decisions on the basis of as clear information as possible. This is our interest both in the coalition and in the opposition, it is cross-party. It doesn't matter where the seat is. I think, once again, more talking is better here than less talking. When we look, you mentioned this a couple of times, you said that you didn't know exactly that you hadn't prepared it, and you sent it on. A little post office look. You are, however, Prime Minister of the Republic. The Prime Minister of the Republic who sends information to members of the Riigikogu. This is the actual situation. If you're saying that you don't know exactly why one or the other authority is putting AK marks in there and saying that in 2026 we could discuss it with someone. But ask! It's none of our business to ask. We'll ask you. We don't communicate with the authorities. We're communicating with you, Madam Prime Minister! Ask them why they put these AK marks where it really doesn't seem necessary. I would like to stress once again that this is not personalised data, and you yourself have confirmed it. It would be personalized data, personal identification numbers for individual people, names would be different. That's not right now. I stress that you see for yourself what the paranoid thinking of people is part of today's society. I'm not talking about some people thinking that the vaccination will put a chip under their skin. I believe that it is not necessary to repeat to me and to you that such a thing does not happen, that the chip will not be put on. But people's opinions and perceptions are very different about all this corona stuff. In my opinion, such secrecy for such a long time gives rise to even more paranoid thoughts for people who do not know the information. A member of the Riigikogu possesses this information, but he cannot discuss it with anyone. Once again, I urge you, as Prime Minister, to make this change. There's no reason to hide such information right now. There's nothing we should be hiding. This is very important information. You brought this nuance interestingly a few times, and you repeated it several times: maybe I'll give you less information. No, don't give me any less information! Still give us the information you've sent us, but take that AK badge off. There's no nuances to make you keep it secret for five years. Show them what Mr Kruusimäe asked for, or in any other way show them to the members of the Riigikogu. But show me what is really what makes it necessary to keep classified for five years. There is no such reason. And this isn't a bully, madam minister! I stress once again: it is our common interest to have as much information as possible, to have one or the other subject as much as possible discussed, and, in the end, to have as precise a follow-up as possible, the results that we would like to do, how better to get through the fight against this corona crisis. So once again, I would rather say that I think the questions of today's inquiry were in fact further questions. I really have a request for you: if you really think this could help, go over these daily reviews once, don't do it for you, get your advisor, somebody, let compare and believe me: you won't see any differences in the daily reviews of last year and this year. Maybe this difference is that last year... But it also relates, of course, to Mr Ratas' special transition to such a microlevel, each of his daily visits was such a very, very personal one, where he asked for the opportunity to pass on this information, that every time there was such a personal sense of how he would like to pass this information on to members of the Riigikogu at this point, it is not in your e-mail, but we do not blame it on you either, I think it is not a priority. But check it out! And I really hope that maybe in the next few days the authorities will tell you that there is no reason to keep this information secret, it will just create pointless tensions. And then the members of the Riigikogu will be able to share and discuss this information and, consequently, maybe make any further proposals to both the Government of the Republic and the Scientific Advisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U56	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U57	Thank you, good Chairman! Good workmates and, of course, people who sometimes pick up the button on their emissary and ask what's going on. I might start with this quote: "The sun will come out and the earth will be white. You won't know everything about the newspaper. Whoever rules the earth, you will not know, and the name of some death you will not know. "This is how the song "More Lives Beria", written by Villu Tamm, begins, reflecting such a time. Today everything is absolutely the opposite. Today, when we wake up in the morning and get to work here, we already know on the radio how many people have been infected in the meantime, how many people are in hospital care, how many people, how many people, how many people, how many percentages of all this, the other and the third. He gets here for work, works for the day, goes to lunch, gets three o'clock, and the member of the Riigikogu learns that information. This so-called advantage that a member of the Riigikogu is more informed than no! These Estonian maps, where the counties are painted in different colors, are not a sensitive theme. Or maybe the graph, or the graph, isn't a sensitive subject either. Today, in fact, the fourth power actually prevails. After all, we ask the members of the Riigikogu, the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister, in which case we have a riot police house. Take the page off and read: because some characters and provocators had infiltrated the night of the bronze. There's no classified information, but we don't get it from the Prime Minister, we don't get it from the Minister of the Interior, we don't get it from anywhere. We can make inquiries, we can get some answers that don't really talk about things. Not bad at all, but I've always thought that our children are being taught extremely badly. That kid's song, "Where'd you go, where'd you go, little sock? " Sookie answers: "I went to the mill, I went to the mill. " Have you seen any sock that speaks Estonian? It should still be, "Where'd you go, where'd you go, little sock? "And the answer is, "Köki-möki, köki-möki, köki-möki." That's the kind of information we really are. It is believed that the ambassadors will go crazy with these unpersonalized data and release this information into the media six hours later. You know what we found out today at 3:00?! People say yes, we listen to the news. In this way, let's say that this cooperation is built up, that the Riigikogu is the last one to actually get the information back, that could contribute a little more. What really is a concern for me? If we look at our young people today, if we look at the innovativeness of our young people today, if we look at even "Rocket 69" no matter what it is, we give them the raw data and they might be able to read something else from there. We know that lies are divided like this: there is a little lie, then there is a lie, and then there will be a big piece of empty land, and then there will be statistics. The statistics are actually crazy with different data. But the connection that how many people we have died, and to read it as progress or success, you don't want it. This figure of how many people we have died and how many people we have infected, and then runs some kind of graphics. Perhaps today's young people, if they had all the data available, would find some kind of interesting connection, and they would be able to talk to young people about why you have to wear a mask. This is the case if the data are public. Today is that we will receive this information six hours later, and then we will take note of this information. So make a [proposal] to special schools that have a physics or a chemistry or a mathematics slope, they put some formulas and are able to find connections and address young people better. We, as members of the Riigikogu at the moment, are simply the last hand here. What if, from the back, the first one I'm comforting myself and other workmates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U58	I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I decided to take the floor to confirm that this question had not been submitted by the heirs in order to bully or tease you in any way, but to find out. Personally, I'd like to be cleared up in an experiment by carrying out an experiment. You also repeatedly said in your answers that you could also share less information, or a small concentrate, which would not be for official use. I really want to get it only once, not to burden the authorities and not to burden you, but to have a concentrate once where there is no sensitive information, no sensitive personal data, no information that would endanger the security of the state. I would like to compare it with the material you send to all other members of the Riigikogu and which is for official use. As a result of the comparative test, I would like to find out the information that overlaps, which I could share with other people, and the information that should remain for official use, which I should not share with other people. As a result of this comparison, I could find out. Indeed, as a member of the Riigikogu, I am interested in this quite essentially to find out, to draw conclusions from it. Perhaps we must begin to change the legislation in the Riigikogu. And as a result of today's debate and discussion, it seems to me that we must begin to change legislation. It was the purpose of my request, nothing more to see back here. Now, you also said that you did not decide what to declare for official use. That's right, that's authority. But I was surprised by what I read in your answers: you weren't very interested either, you just passed on that information. And since this question has repeatedly arisen here and we have already submitted an inquiry in March, members of the Riigikogu have been interested, it would have been elementary for you to make it clear to yourself whether it really might be unreasonable. The previous government a year ago, you very much like to talk about the previous government within three months of the emergency, provided information, there was no such limit. Why wasn't it? Why is it now? The Prime Minister had no such question. And when the question came up, it still didn't come up with such a question. You come today and say, "I'm just passing on, I don't know, I'm not the decision-maker." A suggestion for you: take an interest in it. I have read the materials and reports you have submitted. In my opinion, this is basically necessary information that everyone in Estonia could and should know, and most of them do. When I read the papers, watch television and listen to the radio, I dare say that more than 90% of this information is certainly completely publicly available through various channels to the people of Estonia. This is an overview of how the infection has spread by municipality, county, how many people we have in the hospital, what is the rate of infection R, etc., etc. In my opinion, there is nothing to do with sensitive personal data or that would pose any threat to national security. So take a good look at this and pass this information on to the authorities so that they seriously consider that we do not lightly stamp "Official use" just in case any memos or other documents. I also think that this is a place that the National Audit Office could control. I have a call to the National Audit Office: see if this is done too lightly in different authorities. This does not increase openness or confidence in the country. And I believe that our inquiry, if the National Audit Office is interested and if you, Prime Minister, are interested and the authorities are also reviewing, will carry out a proper audit, have fulfilled your goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U60	The word on the Internet is Andres Metsoja. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U61	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I also want to apologize for this apology that has become common practice here when we bothered with this questioning. But, in fact, I think that the time for precisely the availability and dissemination of information in this contingency centre is very acute. It's acute in every way. This is acute for us here in Parliament, because we should soon start discussing the starting points of the White Paper. And, as the Prime Minister has said, this analysis, which has been sent to us, is actually a matter of discussion and decision-making, or a source. I think we are in a rather strange situation where we need to make decisions, shape positions, discuss different patterns and patterns of behaviour in Parliament, but the basic information is as if it were for official use. This inevitably creates a situation where perhaps one, another or a third corner would like to be dealt with in the discussion, but we find ourselves in a situation where, in reality, we need to monitor very closely what we share with the public or do not share. It is not possible to start discussing this behind closed doors, as sometimes the committees have limited access to information. In this sense, I cannot agree with Helir-Valdor Seedr that it is such a one-time project that we remove information with a public restriction and make such a concentration. In my opinion, this should be resolved as a matter of urgency under the direction of the Riigikogu. If we want to move forward, make decisions on the basis of the information that we have been receiving all this time, then this information should actually be publicly available. That is the call that I will end with, because the subject needs to be moved forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U62	Thank you. Speak up, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U63	I would like to take this opportunity to say to the Prime Minister that, you know, this feeling is familiar to me: in many cases, I have also received praise for things where perhaps my contribution has not been so great and, on the contrary, to blame where I feel that there is no guilt at all. I'm humanly aware of that feeling, and it goes along with these jobs. But I think we should all say thank you to Sven Sester here today, whose initiative this question was made and who actually revealed to us this classification mass or attitude, which is not so much a matter of political decision, but of a certain official attitude instinctively. We should understand that, on the contrary, the Public Information Act says that health information, of course, must not be classified as individuals, but as health information, especially as regards research. We must not go in the opposite direction in this crisis now that we go against the idea of law with such secrecy. And the suggestion from the Prime Minister that this has been done before, or something more narrowly done before, is that I do not know exactly how to bring these nuances, perhaps so. That may be the case, but the fact is that Parliament was not faced with reality until Sven Sester put the question on the table. I don't think that's gonna excuse us from jointly answering Sven Sester's question here. We need information. And to protect public information, I think we should really consider, as Helir-Valdor Seeder said, an amendment to the law so that Parliament and Parliament's committees can actually remove the stamp for official use. In reality, this could be one of the measures of parliamentary protection that we should take in a toolbox in this work, where we need to re-establish the principles of the functioning of Estonia as a parliamentary state, which have been a little fluctuating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U64	Thank you very much. In the course of the negotiations, would the Prime Minister like another word? No, I don't. I am closing the negotiations and this has been answered by an inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U65	Let's move on to the next question, this is the second item on today's agenda. This is an inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Urmas Reinsalu, Sven Sester, Üllar Saaremäe, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Priit Sibula and Helir-Valdor Seeder on 8 March 2021, and it bears the number 58. The inquiry is answered by the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani. I ask Urmas Reinsalu, the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu, to introduce the questioning of the Chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U66	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of the Interior! Well, this [inquiry] coincides, as a chorus, with the previous topic we discussed that such temples on paper, do not know anything, do not appear, make decisions from the black box. This was also an incentive for us, members of the Fatherland, to present this question. There have been cases before, I myself remember, and Prime Minister Ratas remembers from his term of office that there will be a sealed envelope from the Ministry of the Interior: exceptionally, to give citizenship. Let's see who. Murderer! To clarify, the Home Office says that the apology, he killed a long time ago, and the one he killed was a folk chessman. But the fact is, he's a murderer. Well, he didn't pass that application in his day. There's gonna be another envelope from the Homeland Department. Let's open it. To give Estonian citizenship once again, exceptionally. Who? Bronze Night to the hero! The person who ran off on the streets on the night of the bronze and was punished for it. But now he has to be given citizenship. These cases, such symptomatic that they were criminals, they were]. This raised the question when the new government took office that, alongside all the bright and good that the government has been able to do in this couple of months, there were three exceptional cases of granting citizenship to people who had been convicted. And there was the question of getting information. The general logic of the law is that these persons are not granted citizenship, but the government can make an exception. Okay. All governments have made exceptions under some circumstances, in certain individual cases. And now, at the same time, when the new government came into office, I don't know if the first working day or any working week was over, [exceptional citizenship] for three at once. The previous government gave seven in two years, but now they gave three in one week at a time. That is why the question arises as to whether, by means of parliamentary supervision, we could tear down the stamps created for official use and find out who these three people are. Secondly, please name these people. Please state the crimes they have committed in the past and the subjective motivation you had, Mr Minister for the Interior, in bringing this matter to the government, so that it is precisely these offences that could be such that this consideration [may be justified]. There are certainly minor offences for which consideration may be justified, for example, a person has made amends for the past during his later life. However, we would like an answer to these three cases. Three people have already received [exceptional citizenship] in the first few weeks. The first person, who is also specifically motivated by the question, drew attention to the fact that he has not committed his crimes on the territory of Estonia, whether on our territory in terms of the Tartu Peace Treaty or the economic control line, but on the territory of Russia. And the request would be, Mr. Minister of the Interior, to give you an overview of what the courts in Russia found him guilty, and at what time it happened, so that we could have a clear view of what the justice of this person took place, and if these Russian courts found him guilty, how and under what circumstances he came to us in Estonia. In short, the logic of the law is that people who have repeatedly committed crimes do not receive Estonian citizenship. This is a decision of the government's discretion and we believe that this decision must be subject to serious scrutiny. Who did this in the government before? Of course, Fatherland. I checked those things out. Now the Fatherland is no longer in government. But the consolation to the public, Kristian, is that we are carrying out this inspection in this Chamber. We can still create and try to create a balance point so that things don't get out of hand. I hope that today's debate on this question will be interesting and that we will also have some kind of common understanding of how to conduct proceedings on such matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U67	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu Chair to answer this question by Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U68	Thank you for the introduction, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank you for this good question and for raising this important issue. I am happy to answer the questions put to me in my inquiry on 8 March on the issue of citizenship. But before we go to this question, I will explain for a while how, in the Estonian legal space, the grant of Estonian citizenship has been regulated in exceptional circumstances. According to § 21 of the current Citizenship Act, it is indeed possible to grant citizenship by way of exception. The specific provision literally says: "Estonian citizenship may be granted or restored, by way of exception, to a person who has been subject to repeated criminal penalties for intentional crimes and whose punishment has been extinguished, taking into account the circumstances of the offence and the person responsible. " By way of exception, according to § 21 (11) of the Act, it is possible to grant citizenship to persons who have been convicted of a criminal offence. The context of this section dates back to 2001, when on 11 October the General Assembly of the Supreme Court decided that the restriction on the grant of citizenship at the time, which was related to criminal punishment, was disproportionate to the objective pursued because it did not take into account the nature and gravity of the intentional crime committed. They didn't want a crime to send a person their whole life. This led to the amendment of the Citizenship and Penal Register Act in 2006. Until then, the granting or refusal of citizenship was repeatedly made conditional on criminal punishment as a fact, and the law did not provide for a time limit for the recognition of punishment and punishment. Only the existing penalties were taken into account in the decision and even the administrative body had no access at the time to the data recorded in the criminal record. The amendment of the 2006 Act provided for the obligation to exercise discretion in granting Estonian citizenship to a person who has been repeatedly punished for committing intentional crimes and whose punishment has been extinguished by that time. For a second summary of this specific provision of the Act, § 21 (11) of the Citizenship Act. Its background is the decision of the Supreme Court of 2001, which said that the point in force at the time was disproportionate, after which the Citizenship Act was amended in 2006 and the possibility that, once the sentence has passed, citizenship could be considered. So, it was now a little longer, but still a necessary overview of the development of citizenship practice in Estonia, as an exception. I will now come to the questions of debate and read them out for clarity. The first question: "The Government of the Republic allegedly approved, at its meeting on 4 March 2021, the granting of Estonian citizenship to a person who has committed three crimes in Russia. " The specific question was that who is the person to whom Estonian citizenship was exceptionally granted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 4 March 2021. The answer is that this person is eligible for citizenship, has a long-term resident's residence permit, has resided legally in Estonia for more than eight years, has registered residence in Estonia and has a permanent income. Due to its state of health, this person was exempted from the Estonian language and citizenship examination by the Innove Foundation. At the time of the application, the person was a citizen of the Russian Federation, but today he is exempt from Russian citizenship, as the principle of the Citizenship Act provides for us. This person has indeed been convicted three times in the Russian Federation. The first act was 30 years ago when he stole two wheels in the Russian Federation. The following actions have been carried out since 1993 and 2003 and their content is to avoid child alimony payments. The penalties have expired, the records have been entered in the criminal record in 1992, 1994 and 2004 respectively. The second question is about what motives the Minister for the Interior proposed to grant citizenship to a person who has committed three crimes in Russia. The reason why citizenship was given was first that these crimes were committed a very long time ago, the last crime almost 20 years ago, and the punishment for crimes has gone out. It's been 14 years since the last sentence went out. Crimes were not committed in a generally dangerous manner and the court did not apply the maximum penalty nor did it punish him with actual imprisonment. Moreover, given his state of health, he certainly poses no threat to public policy in general. In conclusion, only because a person has committed a criminal offence cannot give up the consideration of granting citizenship as an exception. Such conduct would be contrary to the duty of consideration laid down in the Citizenship Act and to the idea of the Citizenship Act to give a person who has improved and embarked on an acquittal after a certain period of time has elapsed, i.e. if the sentence has been extinguished, even if the length of time has elapsed since the sentence had passed, there is an administrative practice to give the person a new opportunity after that period. Finally, it is important to note that the decision to grant or restore citizenship is made by the Government of the Republic, but according to the Act of the Government of the Republic, the organisation of activities of citizenship is within the area of government of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Security experts shall assess whether a person should exceptionally be granted the rights and obligations attached to citizenship. They, of course, also make the appropriate proposals as to whether it is reasonable to grant citizenship or not. I have no reason to doubt the assessments made by these security experts. Thank you for listening patiently, and I look forward to asking questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U69	Thank you. You have questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U70	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I really do have a question. You have already granted three persons citizenship in the government, and all three have been repeatedly punished in criminal matters. When you read the crimes of this one person, you saw that the difference between committing two different crimes was ten years, which means that even after a very long time, a person may continue to be dangerous or able to commit the following crimes. I do not know what experts judged it to be a safe person in the future who will no longer commit these crimes in five or seven years' time. But that's it. I have a question about the operative part of which you mentioned at the beginning that, on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Court of 2001, the law was amended in 2006. This is a judgment of the Supreme Court 20 years ago. Hasn't the time gone by, and doesn't practice confirm that maybe it's time to amend the law and end the fact that, exceptionally, we repeatedly give citizenship to a criminal sanctioned person? Would you support it if the legislator came up with such an amendment and took away such an opportunity at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U71	Thank you for your question. I think it may not be so decisive that this Supreme Court ruling has now passed 20 years. If, after that, such cases have not reached the General Assembly of the Supreme Court, it can be assumed that the practice of today continues to be topical. If the new cases are to reach the Supreme Court, such discussions on the subject are of course absolutely welcome at the level of the Supreme Court. There's certainly no way you can lock yourself up for these subjects.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U72	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U73	Thanks for the answers. However, I would like to come back to the fact that you gave the criminals citizenship in a group. In particular, there were three persons who were granted citizenship at one meeting. Please also name the crimes committed by the other two persons on the territory of the country. Say this, too, or the granting of citizenship is nothing to be ashamed of, who these people are specifically. I am interested in this first person that if, as you indicated, in 2003, he had a crime formation in Russia, whether or not he was a permanent resident of Estonia at the time the crimes were committed, that first person. And secondly, please tell me who these other people were and what their specific crimes were because there was talk of repeated crimes. And third, name who those people were. We can't run the country like this behind the scenes. There is nothing to be ashamed of if you are willing to stand up for these decisions and believe that they are reasonable and appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U74	Thank you for your question. Since I do not know in fact the status of his 1992 residence that he was here on the basis of a residence permit or otherwise, if this is acceptable, I will reply in writing. I can't tell by heart, and I'm not guessing, just in case. I may be wrong because I have not checked the facts. One of the other two persons was a citizen of undefined nationality who was previously a Ukrainian citizen. He had been punished repeatedly, three times in particular, in criminal proceedings. He had the last crime in 2005, perhaps more than 15 years ago. He is born in Estonia, has a family here, a secure job and income, is married, has three children, whose future he also sees in Estonia. He wanted Estonian citizenship for himself and his children, because their home is in Estonia. He was also granted citizenship to three of his minor children, who were equally pre-citizens of Ukraine. So that's one of the [those three] persones in addition to the one I already touched. The second person was equally of undefined nationality. He applied for Estonian citizenship as an exception. He was punished for theft one time and attempted robbery one time. Thefts were committed 21 years ago and attempted robbery 18 years ago. The sentence [for theft] was punishable by a financial penalty and, on the second occasion, [for attempted robbery,] imprisonment, some of which were enforced, some of which were not conditionally applied if the person did not commit a new criminal offence during the probation period. Right now, she's married, raising kids. In his case, it may be important to point out that he is an experience counselor who helps people who are exposed to and addicted to addiction problems, so that they can all become full and equal members of society. So he's had a very specific mission since he got into trouble with the law almost 20 years ago. He also raises a minor child who is also an Estonian citizen. These were then the other two people who also received citizenship. Three in total, really.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U75	A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U76	I have, yes, a procedural question for the President of the sitting. Would it make sense to give the Minister the opportunity to respond to the second part of this question? In particular, the first person was referred to three crimes. I also asked him to say what the crimes were about the person who was of undefined nationality. In fact, I also asked extenuatingly whether these persons had been registered with misdemeanours.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U77	Yeah, I'm sorry! About the third person, I mentioned that it was theft and attempted robbery, and the second person was punished for the theft, drunken driving and physical abuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U78	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U79	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good Minister of the Interior! I am delighted that you have brought out this nuance, which once again shows very graphicly and clearly how we actually create laws by courts, not by the Constitutional Riigikogu. You gave a good example of how the judges not elected by the people will change the standards laid down by our nation's elected legislator through interpretation. They're banging some kind of mythical subjective proportionality ax into the woods with such a bang that chips fly. Like in Stalinism. But now Stalin has become a collective body called a court and interprets the laws according to the political moods of the day. The Lawmaker himself pulls his tail between his legs and runs away. It's very symptomatic today, by the way. But the specific question is actually based on this case. You said that since the Court said that these measures were not proportionate enough, the way in which we previously dealt with criminal criminals who want citizenship, now, on the basis of the principle of proportionality explained by the Court, we must take into account the extinction of the sentence and the person responsible. The question is, what were these good positive arguments, given the person responsible, on the basis of which you decided to give citizenship to the person who broke the bronze night. The person who actually attacked our...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U80	Thank you for your question. Mr Reinsalu actually asked the same questions, and I briefly examined them. All these people have decided to link their lives to Estonia. One has become an experiential counselor, helping people who have gone into trouble with drugs to get back to a full life. They all have families, they all have underage children who are equally Estonian citizens. One person is also disabled. In view of the length of time that has passed since their sentence was passed, and seeing that these people have embarked on such a path that their activities no longer pose a threat to the public policy, they were the points of reference on the basis of which it was proposed to consider the grant of citizenship as an exception.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U81	Thank you. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U82	Thank you, good Chairman! I want to point out that we have been talking about mind poisons for years, not pleasure drugs. When we talk about drugs, people don't understand why they're being denied pleasure, we're not the Empire of Evil. We're still talking about mind poisons. I'm asking you not to make such a mistake again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U83	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U84	Good point!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U85	It is important, in the interests of the protocol, to resolve the question of Mr Pulpland, which was raised on the night of the bronze, about a person who was punished. His request, that of the murderer, but also that of the person convicted of rioting on the night of the bronze, i.e. violating public order, was indeed brought to the government by the Ministry of the Interior on the grounds that these people have linked their lives to Estonia. But the fact is, in the interests of the minutes, the President of the sitting also remembers these circumstances that the decision was not taken, that the Fatherland blocked it. The kind of company that has ravaged and killed during the Bronze Night, and the argument that it was clear that we did not have the rhetoric or the argument that life was related to Estonia, was not enough. In fact, we also had the answer about how this [one of the three people who received citizenship] got into Estonia. He committed crimes in Russia, but citizenship is acquired in Estonia. Somehow, it's like it's cross-crisscrossed. These matters must be clarified in the interests of the protocol so that there is no dissemination of false information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U86	Thank you. I'm really asking procedural questions. Henn Põllamas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U87	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm interested in whether it was a mistake for my Internet connection, or indeed as your chair, you just interrupted Paul Puustusmaa without having noticed the time I had previously warned him that the time was over. What happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U88	Thank you. What happened was that the manager signaled several times and asked for a question, but 25 seconds passed. So it happened. Please, we're good! I understand if it goes a few seconds over five seconds, ten, that's the maximum. We have to ask in 60 seconds, just like our turn. Please, let's go rationally around time and respect everyone! All right, let's go. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of the Interior! We are talking today about people who have been convicted of criminal offences, many of which are also people who have been punished several times. And we're talking, in my understanding, about possible decision-making by the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic is not an Excel table that he or she will be given conditions in advance and, if the conditions are met, on the other hand, the passport will come out from the end of the pipe and the person will be granted citizenship. It is a decision of assessment. The general principle is that in such cases citizenship is not granted, and then these are the exceptions that we are talking about. I have understood this by saying that it is a judgment of reason, and therefore, if I have understood correctly, you are really looking at one or another of [citizenship] giving. For me, this is also a matter of pace. I look at the previous government: in two years [citizenship] seven people came to my mind. According to the data I have now, seven people in two years. But now three people in the first month. Can you comment on what's going on? Has the filter got too loose or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U90	Thank you for your question. The filter definitely hasn't gotten too loose. If we look at the previous governments, this [current] proportion, this number, it doesn't really come out in any way. If we look at the current government and the number of people who have been repeatedly punished by criminal law, by way of exception, the current government has granted citizenship, we will see that this number is three. But there have been nine applications. In fact, it is true that all applications for citizenship, by way of exception, will be examined and considered by means of a hatch.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U91	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U92	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I kept thinking that if these people have a desire to join a party, then we have, for the time being, that people who have been convicted of criminal offences cannot join a party, but if a person has, under any circumstances, already acquired citizenship, that should mean that he has an advantage over the citizens by bloodline. My question is whether we should not review the party law, because today it is really the case that crimes that are already outdated and which are everywhere [accepted] are still accessible to everyone from the court register. Absolutely all political parties have been burned quite painfully, and people who may have really got themselves a case for the theft of jam cannot join the party or have had to be excluded from the party. Now there's not going to be any violation of the principle of equal treatment that they've received preferential citizenship and now they could join the political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U93	Thank you for your question. What matters here is that we are talking about the criminal records being erased. In Estonia, too, the logic has always been that if the person's criminal records have been erased, entered into the archives, he has not been punished. Very few, individual cases or cases are such that the criminal records in the archives are also used as a basis, for example, for recruitment somewhere. But the general logic is that once the criminal records are archived and the criminal records are erased, the person is so-called clean. He doesn't have any restrictions, even if he's going to a party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U94	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U95	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U96	Excuse me, Helle-Moonika Helme! You were very badly heard after the introduction. The introduction was very good. Please, let's try again! I'm gonna ask for another minute to Helle-Moonika Helme! Please! [[The connection's breaking up.]] Try again for a second.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U97	[[Remote connection]] Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U98	Yeah, it's better now. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U99	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'm canceling the introduction now. Here's the question. Minister, your signature is on all these exceptionally citizenship papers and we have heard from you repeatedly that we can give these persons Estonian citizenship because they are no longer a threat to our public order. I specifically ask: if one of them does commit a crime, such as murder, or becomes a threat to national security, will you personally assume some kind of responsibility? You're the one who took these papers with your signature on the government table.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U100	Thank you for your question. First of all, such acts must, depending on what the act is, pass the stage of the proceedings, be organised by an extra-judicial judge in the form of the police, or by the prosecutor's office, and finally by the court that takes the decision. The Estonian Constitution says that only citizenship at birth cannot be taken away, but citizenship given by naturalisation can be taken away. But I really hope we never have to go this far. If such acts are committed, the relevant stage of the criminal proceedings must first be completed and then the following questions can be decided later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U101	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U102	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Well, the last answer didn't satisfy anything. Some kind of procedure to get behind you, no, no, what procedure, what procedure? If a man has been killed, will he come back to life after the trial? That's a comment to that answer. But the question is that I see double standards here again. We heard Toompea's protestors are a threat to constitutional order, but now citizenship is given to a person who has actually been a threat to constitutional order during the Bronze Night. I see a very clear ideological double standard here. Push it over. I'm sure you won't disprove it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U103	Thank you for your question. None of the people I'm talking about have anything to do with bronze riots.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U104	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U105	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Dear Minister, As a long-term practitioner, maybe you remember how many opposite activities have been taken away from persons of Russian nationality who have committed a crime, often a dangerous crime, murder? Do you have cases like this in your memory right now? And shouldn't we be setting ourselves in this direction to move these people of foreign nationality to the country of which they are members?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U106	Thank you. That's a good question! As a practitioner, I can assure you that if such people have committed a serious crime, the possibility of a person with which he or she is currently visiting in the Republic of Estonia will always be considered depends on the person with whom he or she is currently visiting the Republic of Estonia to cancel the basis for his or her stay and send him or her out of the country, for example. Send a person out of the country after he has transferred imprisonment to the Republic of Estonia. So I assure you, this practice is entirely there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U107	Good fellows! We have an oral question in the context of our enquiries. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U108	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Do you have an overview of how much of Estonian citizens are Estonians and whether their share has increased or decreased in recent years? Could you share this overview with the members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U109	Thank you. Of course, these are the majority of Estonian citizens. I can give you a more specific answer, but I'll do it in writing. The trend of recent years has been like a growing trend, I mean the trend of how many people living in Estonia with one visitor or another have applied for Estonian citizenship. If necessary, I can also give you a very detailed answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U110	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U111	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I'd like you to get a little into the Citizenship Act. It says that Estonian citizenship is not granted or restored to a person who has committed a crime for which he has been sentenced to imprisonment for more than one year and whose sentence has not been extinguished or who has been repeatedly punished for intentional crimes. As we understand, all three individuals mentioned are repeatedly punished. Do you really think it is necessary to take criminals as an Estonian citizen? And do we really need to look for excuses or reasons to enable such individuals to become citizens of our country? Please explain this a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U112	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the paragraph you referred to exists in § 21 of the Citizenship Act. In addition, Article 21 (11) of the Citizenship Act also provides that if the sentence has been extinguished in the case of persons who have been subject to repeated criminal offences, the grant of citizenship can be considered by way of exception, taking into account both the offence committed and the person himself. That is the wording of the law and the meaning of the law. As I said before, more than 20 years ago, or almost 20 years ago, the Citizenship Act did indeed say that only the data in the criminal record had to be used, and when the person was punished, he could not be granted citizenship. At that time, the Supreme Court decided that this was a disproportionately harsh measure, and a few years later a paragraph was included in the Citizenship Act, which provided for the possibility of granting citizenship by way of consideration, provided that the sentence was extinguished and that enough time had elapsed since the sentence was extinguished.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U113	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U114	Thank you. Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U115	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U116	Minister, thank you for creating clarity and providing information in these circumstances. But I cannot accept the indication that the government had no choice. The law says that there is a duty of consideration on the part of the government, but there is no obligation on the part of the government to give. It has still been a subjective decision at one session to exceptionally grant citizenship to three persons who have repeatedly committed crimes, as we have heard: robbery, theft, physical abuse and so on. You pointed out that people must be given a second chance. But I think this is a very fundamental choice in terms of what citizenship is. Citizenship is not a human right; citizenship is not a humanitarian right in the form of any social rights. The issue of granting citizenship is the realisation of political power in this country through naturalisation. This leads us to the fact that I can assure you, Mr Minister for the Interior, unambiguously: in all the following steps, if you intend to bring those people who have been punished repeatedly to the government to give them citizenship, and if the government supports it, the Fatherland plans to apply the right of parliamentary inquiry without precedent. We intend to identify the facts in all these cases. And the fact is, Mr Minister, that you did not refer to the names of these people, to who these people really are and under what circumstances they have come to Estonia. For at least one person, there was an example that crimes were committed in the territory of another country. I would certainly like to confirm here that this policy of spatial special prevention, which concerns the removal of people who committed crimes in foreign countries from Estonia, must definitely be pursued unequivocally by our law enforcement authorities, both the prison service, the police and the prosecutor's office, when filing a state charge and applying for an entry ban as an additional punishment. In my time as Minister of Justice, it was introduced and we have already seen 300 cases as a result when it has been dealt with. I think that this has been a country's policy in the right direction, not in the wrong direction. The position of the Fatherland is clear: we must review the country and ask whether the right to weigh in this form is justified. Perhaps the time has come for a more modern approach in the legal space and one might consider removing this right to weigh from the text of the law. There is no right to weight in many other areas of life. For example, persons who commit crimes cannot work in Estonia as a police officer, in the prison service and in a number of positions of particular trust, regardless of the criminal record. However, there has been no need or need for the establishment of the right to weigh on these issues in constitutional supervision. It is not one offence, one crime that a person committed, but it is about a person's behaviour being relapsed, he has repeatedly committed crimes. So once again, Mr Minister for the Interior, thank you for giving this Parliament this information. On behalf of the Fatherland, I can assure you that we will be attentive to all the subsequent steps that the government intends to take. And as regards this argument or argument that people have decided to link their lives to Estonia, I recall that the same argument was used in these cases when the Ministry of the Interior brought to the government the request of the person who committed the crime in both the murder and the Bronze Night riots. Due to the opposition of the Fatherland, these people, despite the reason that they have committed their lives to Estonia, did not exceptionally give Estonian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U117	Thank you. Now it's a talk. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, first of all, thank you for your answers. And I think it is an important thing that the previous speaker has just mentioned that we will certainly continue to monitor this issue with our group in the future. I would like to draw the attention of all our listeners to the fact that we are discussing today the granting of citizenship to people who have been criminally punished for intentional crimes, often also for multiple crimes. Yes, they are outdated over time, but crimes have been committed and have often been more than one. As I mentioned in my question, we are dealing with a decision of discretion, which the government will finally take. There's a double filter. On the one hand, the first filter is the Minister of the Interior, who brings it to the government, and the second is the government itself, who either confirms it or doesn't approve it. Here I have great thanks for passing on to Urmas Reinsalu, who has been monitoring it in the past. I really stress that it is usually in coalitions that the parties review the agenda for the next day at the latest one day earlier. Believe me, on Wednesday mornings, when we look at the agenda for the next day, we have seen many times how proposals have been put on the table in the government to give citizenship to one person or another. I would point out that we are talking about potential citizens who have been convicted of criminal offences. The Fatherland kept this line that they were not generally granted citizenship. Urmas Reinsalu asked the Minister of the Interior several times what these considerations are. We stood for this possible future passport not to be seen by this particular person. I really hope that the pace that has been taken now, so that, in essence, within a month, three people have already acquired citizenship, will not speed up, but will make these decisions more peacefully. But you'd better not do them at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U119	Thank you. Now it's over the Internet. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U120	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! What's this about? It is not a question of the case of one person or one person. From the point of view of these people, of course, all this is important, whether they are Estonian citizens, what their connection to this country is, whether the state recognizes them as full-fledged accomplices in the life of this country, or whether the state does not recognise them as such. This is important for these people, but from the point of view of the State, individual cases are marginal. From the state's point of view, politics as a whole, what is our citizenship policy, because citizenship is a privilege. Citizenship means access to power. Citizenship means that we give people the opportunity to strive for the highest positions in the country. It means fighting for power. In the beginning of the 1990s, Estonia, as a small country and a small nation, has not decided to maintain a clear, understandable but demanding line in matters of citizenship. We've kept a demanding line. We are seeing very clearly how the pressure on the easing of citizenship policy has increased in recent years. Take, for example, the drafts that have been tabled several times here for the introduction of double citizenship. They have been rejected, but these attempts show that the demanding set in the early 1990s, I do not want to say 'hard', citizenship policy is being reviewed in order to alleviate it, dissolve it and clearly make it more globalist. At the same time, we also see double standards. We give citizenship to people with a clear criminal background in a discretionary manner, as we can see from the picture here. The right of reason, however, means that it is considered. There is no obligation to grant citizenship. But ethnic Estonians, who have already remained among the grey passers for various reasons in the 1990s, do not get this citizenship so easily. Ethnic Estonians in Abkhazia, ethnic Estonians in other former republics, they don't get this citizenship that way. Some are subjected to the full rigour of the law, and others are found to have linked their lives to Estonia and therefore we have no reason to refuse to give them citizenship. These things are not balanced, these things are clearly out of balance and the more things are out of balance, the more opportunity there is to engage in citizenship policy as a whole and to reform the current citizenship policy towards dilution. After all, we can say for 7.5 billion people that they have decided to associate their lives with Estonia and that they want to have a say in this life. And what, as the historic inhabitants of this land, the descendants of the historical inhabitants, shall we say? But what if they take the leadership of this entire country and decide on our people, our culture, our language, our practices, because there are more of them than we are? There is a very clear logic error here and this logic error cannot be accepted. Minister, do not come any further by saying that these people have decided to link their lives to Estonia and that their children already have Estonian citizenship. Their children are not criminals. Their children have acquired citizenship on quite different grounds and therefore these comparisons are demagogic and not valid. So I would like to ask people with such demagogical arguments not to come back to the future, because I assure you that, like our good former coalition partner, with whom we had good cooperation on this matter, I would like to thank Urmas Reinsalu and other ministers and politicians of the Fatherland... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U121	Please, an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U122	[[Remote connection]] We will certainly keep these issues in focus with them and, for our part, do not intend to give any relief or acceptance to the attempts that have obviously been put on the agenda by the ALDE parties at the moment, in other words, to change the Estonian citizenship policy, to dilute it and through constant precedents and through them, because in this case, precedents will be brought to our table, to undermine the current policy. This is not acceptable to us. We are in favour of Estonia remaining Estonia. This does not mean that we are subjugating and recognising the right of other people living here, historically, to have a certain right of participation in the politics of our country. But criminals are not people who should be given a privileged position by discretion, so that they can play a full part in politics and perhaps even at one point push themselves to lead the country with the help of others. With the help of others. Let us not forget that criminal organisations are often extremely influential in the world. So let's cross it down. The right of reason means serious consideration, not formal consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U123	Now for the speech. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U124	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people who listen to us and watch us! Yes, forgiveness is a great human virtue. I'm a student of the ERSP and the Rocky Creek. He always taught that citizenship is not given or given, but that there is a transfer from one nationality to another, and we often do not know whether or not a person has given up his or her second nationality. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I want to talk about the fact that today it became public that three [convicted crime] people have already been granted [exceptionally] citizenship of the Republic of Estonia, but our citizens do not even know that one of them was the one who rioted on bronze night. For some reason, I am of the opinion that the wider public may not want their friendly family to come to a person who has ruined our country. And it must be because he has decided to link his life to Estonia. I would remind you that Viktor Kingissepp had actually decided to tie his life to Estonia, but still to a member of the Soviet Socialist Republics Union, not to an independent Republic of Estonia. This [decision to bind my life to Estonia] is not an argument for me. I'm in a pretty difficult situation right now. How can I tell my constituents that yes, Ansip promised that with such a harsh hand we would immediately understand the right and justice of the rioters, but now the rioter will become Estonian citizenship? It doesn't seem fair, but from a legal point of view, it might be right. At this point, the public will still have a long nose if they cannot participate in these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U125	Now I'd like to ask for a call chair called Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U126	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much for your reply. The topics of citizenship are very important to the Pro Patria Party and not because it would be a narrow party approach, but because it is very important to the Estonian state, because the state power is exercised through the civil society. It is the people who are the backbone of the state, it is one of the most important components in Estonia. Let it be mentioned here at the outset, for the protocol and the verbatim report, that this bronze night hero, the so-called hero, has not been granted Estonian citizenship. This proposal was presented by Minister Andres Anvelt as Minister of the Interior, but this proposal was not approved by the government. This is where I would like to come back to the fact that the Supreme Court made a certain decision already in 2001. This decision and the related law are also worth discussing today, 20 years later: from where does it go this gentle border, where the political decisions and parliamentary competences end, or even the exclusive competence of the parliament, and where the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, or legal arguments, begins? This border is not black and white; it is vague and I dare say that it is also changing in time because societies change and perceptions change. Even then, this was a serious discussion, because only five years later, in 2006, the parliament brought the law into line with the Supreme Court's decision. Today, 20 years later, I dare say that it is time to discuss this issue again, precisely from the point of view of the grounds for granting citizenship to a criminal sanctioned or punished person on several occasions today. In the past, it was not possible to grant [a citizenship to such a person] until 2006 that was not possible. Since then, it has been possible. Practice has shown that there is reason to doubt whether this possibility is justified or not in the Estonian legal area. As a member of the Isamaa Party and its chairman, I say that there is reason to debate and there is reason to doubt, because the same examples of murderers and murderers having acquired citizenship are given by bronze-eating heroes who have not received it, have been brought to a wide range of repeatedly criminally sanctioned persons in government, have been granted citizenship and have not been given a part. However, today's presentation of the Minister for the Interior was not convincing that, for example, during this government, the nine persons who applied for citizenship have been given it to three and not to six. The three were given because they have decided to link their lives to Estonia. Didn't the other six decide to link their lives to Estonia? Well, of course you were decided. What are these judgements? Here we come to the situation where the Supreme Court will soon ask, but where there is equal treatment of non-citizens, you will consider, but you must treat people equally. Finally, we come to the fact that exceptionally citizenship must be given to everyone because how you give to one person and not to another. What are these arguments? This is a very dangerous section of Estonian legislation that has been introduced later. For more than [ten] years, it existed differently in the Estonian legal space, did not cause problems, did not violate anyone's rights. Having been in force for [15] years, it was considered that this was no longer proportionate. Now the new situation has also been in place for 15 years. Perhaps now is the time to reconsider and find that this situation is not quite balanced and reasonable and that it is time to change the law? I dare say that the Pro Patria Party will not only monitor and supervise the parliamentary supervision of the grant of citizenship to persons under the Citizenship Act exceptionally, but we will also seriously consider the amendment to the law so that Parliament can discuss and restore the pre-2006 situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U127	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. The Minister has asked for another word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U128	Good President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Once again, I really consider it important to say in person what Mr Seeder has already said. Nobody has anything to do with the bronze night. It's important that I say it personally here. I'll fix another fact. The government currently in office has had nine, not six, applications for citizenship, which have been rejected. Nine times have been refused and three times have been given, i.e. not six and three, but nine and three. And if we also look at the last five years, it is indeed a matter of consideration: by way of derogation from nationality, 196 cases have been refused and 34 cases granted. This still shows that it is a decision of assessment. The meaning of the law and the section of the law, § 21 (11) of the Citizenship Act also state very specifically that the crime committed must always be considered. If we're talking about a crime, there's a big difference between whether we're really talking about the theft or the fact that there's been a murder. That is the point of considering and looking at a specific crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U129	With this, we have exhausted the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U130	Let's go to the third item on today's agenda. For this purpose, an inquiry has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Üllar Saaremäe, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Urmas Reinsalu, Sven Sester and Raivo Tamme about the state of education in Estonian in Ida-Virumaa. Üllar Saaremäe receives the floor as the representative of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U131	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. On 22 March 2021, Lüganus engaged in an active struggle to preserve the Estonian-language school. The petition "We oppose the closure of Lüganus School" collected 1065 votes in the environment in three weeks. The Municipality of Lygan has now withdrawn the school restructuring plan and we are all very pleased about that. I believe that it is also a part of the focus of the Fatherland on this issue. But now to the question. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! In the explanatory memorandum to the Riigikogu's draft decision No 2, one of the initiators (in the composition of the group) of which you were a opposition politician in April 2019, you wrote: "The Estonian state language is Estonian. Knowledge of the national language among all population groups is one of the most important guarantees of our culture, national independence and social security. Due to the lack of knowledge of the Estonian language, the possibilities for self-fulfilment of children with non-Estonian native language are reduced, the social network narrows down, and there is a risk of remaining in the information field tilted by countries that are not friendly to Estonia. The consequences of all of this are economic, social, educational, cultural, security and public health." The preservation of Estonian language and culture throughout the ages is, according to the Preamble of the Constitution, an essential objective of our country. As Minister of Education, you are responsible for its implementation in the fields of education and youth. On the basis of the above, we ask you to answer six questions. First of all, what steps are you planning for the complete transition of the Estonian system of general education schools to the Estonian language of instruction? Secondly, what is the realistic deadline for the transition of Russian-language schools to the Estonian language of instruction in Tallinn? Thirdly, what [is this deadline] in Ida-Virumaa? Fourthly, does the Ministry have a specific national programme for the transition to the Estonian language of instruction in municipalities where the Russian-speaking population is numerically smaller, for example in Tartu or Valga? Fifthly, what measures are you planning to prevent further deterioration of the situation of education in Estonian in Ida-Virumaa, including initiatives by local governments to close schools with an Estonian language of instruction? And in the sixth Question Time of the Riigikogu on 17 March, you noted that quality education is one of the reasons why young people want to be in their home country. What are the specific steps taken by the Ministry of Education and Research to improve the quality of education and youth work in Estonian to prevent young people from leaving Ida-Virumaa? Thank you and we're waiting for answers!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U132	The Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, will provide answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U133	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'm trying to answer your questions. The first question: "What steps do you plan for the complete transition of the whole Estonian system of general education schools to the Estonian language of instruction? " We have convened a working group of practitioners who will meet this week for the first time and whose task is to draw up an action plan for education in Estonian by November of this year at the latest. Practitioners working in the field on the list face challenges on a daily basis to support the learning of Estonian and Estonian languages of students with other native languages. Over the last few years, there is a clear trend that the number of students in other languages in Estonian-language schools will increase by 800-1000 students per year. As a result, we are already planning a hundred days to develop a measure to support Estonian-language basic schools to ensure the proficiency of students in other languages. We would like to offer more flexibility to schools by financing additional hours, which would allow the school to do two extra hours a week in the subjects that the school considers necessary. This provides an opportunity to organise, for example, group hours or level-based classes for which schools currently do not have the resources. All students benefit from this regardless of their native language. In addition, parents want more and more Estonian-language learning in Russian-language schools. For example, Jõhvi Russian Basic School is planning to open the first two classes in the next academic year, one of which is the early language immersion class and the second class participates in the Estonian teacher programme "+1 teacher." Already last Thursday, we announced a new call for applications for schools and kindergartens who still wish to participate in our "+1 teacher" programme, in which [with Russian language education institutions] professional Estonian-language teachers will be included. We expect to join up to 50 kindergarten groups and 30 classes. Let it be said that 103 kindergarten groups and 20 classes are currently participating in the programme. The language immersion is also a popular methodology to ensure good knowledge of the Estonian language. Today, 3,500 children and almost 7400 children in primary schools study language immersion in practicing kindergartens. Also in the case of immersion, there is an upward trend, and we are always ready to have more joiners. The Education and Youth Board supports and advises all educational institutions that have joined the immersion. We are also planning instruments to develop and support language learning from the new period of euro money starting. The focus will be on teachers' language skills, support for pupils' native language, closer cooperation with universities and development to ensure the sustainability of the sector and a high quality of language learning. EUR 30 million is planned for formal education and 16 million is planned for developing language learning for adults, including teachers. The second question: "What, in your opinion, is the realistic deadline for the transition of Russian-language schools to the Estonian language of instruction in Tallinn? " This is followed by the same question about Ida-Viru County. If you don't mind, I'll sum up those questions. The Riigikogu's proceedings include, for example, the development plan of the Estonian language, which sets targets for 2035 by the time that most of the study in Estonian should be passed. Everything we can realise earlier is positive. Substantial steps are important for us to ensure quality Estonian-language education on equal terms for all. Therefore, we will focus in particular on specific activities such as the lack of teachers [to be mitigated], the need for training [to be satisfied], etc. Clear deadlines are a prerequisite for launching specific actions. The action plan, which we should be ready by November of this year, is trying to set these deadlines. However, we can already point out that in Narva, for example, we are ready to invest more than 24 million euros in the construction of the educational complex in Estonian. The complex would provide modern study conditions from kindergarten to the end of upper secondary school. Already today, the demand for day-care centres practicing immersion in Narva and for study places at Narva Old Town State School is very high. The planned educational complex would provide an opportunity to create more study places to make the immersion even more accessible to Narva students. In addition, we can mention the Estonian-language school Kohtla-Järvel, Kohtla-Järve Järve School, where more students with a non-native language are already studying than students with Estonian-language language. The planned support measure for Estonian-language comprehensive schools already mentioned would be exactly the support that Estonian-language educational institutions miss. The same level-based language learning ensures faster development of Estonian language for students in other languages and students with Estonian native language can study Estonian as a native language at a high quality. "Does the Ministry have a specific national programme for the transition to the Estonian language of instruction in municipalities where the Russian-speaking population is numerically smaller (e.g. Tartu, Valga)? " Tartu and Valga are no different from the general trend, i.e. the growing demand for education in Estonian. It is known that the number of students in the Russian-speaking school in Valga is decreasing, and more and more families have decided in favour of the national-language school since the first grade. In Tartu, the share of students in other languages in Estonian comprehensive schools has increased in a few years from 1.8% to 2.1% and in Valga from 12.4% to 12.9%. This trend suggests that the support measure for Estonian-language primary schools already mentioned earlier would be very welcome in the municipalities where the Russian-speaking population is smaller in number, but it is still desirable to put its children in Estonian-language schools. I assure you that we will certainly take into account the regional differences when drawing up the action plan for education in Estonian and that the areas mentioned above will not be overlooked. Question 5: "What measures are you planning to prevent the situation of education in Estonian from deteriorating even more in Ida-Virumaa, including initiatives by local authorities to close schools with an Estonian language of instruction? " We have not planned to restrict the right of local authorities to organise their own school network. At the same time, I dare to confirm that the reorganisation of the educational network at local level is generally known to the Ministry and that we are always involved in the process of providing data and consulting within our competence. It is important that the reform of the education network at local level is well-designed and leads to an improvement in the quality of education. In my opinion, the improvement in the quality of education should be a central justification for the changes in this regard. Against the background of recent cases, I also dare to emphasise the importance of open communication with the local community and of justifying the implementation of changes. Question 6: "What are the specific steps taken by the Ministry of Education and Research to improve the quality of education and youth work in Estonian with a view to preventing Estonian young people from leaving Ida-Virumaa? "All the measures and activities described above are undoubtedly also aimed at Ida-Virumaa, even in particular Ida-Virumaa, and we will certainly continue to take into account the specificities of Ida-Virumaa in developing new policies. I can confirm that today's activities, as well as those planned, are important for the Estonian-language schools in Ida-Virumaa, which I was convinced of myself when Ida-Virumaa was meeting with the educational people and the representatives of the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. In planning the following activities, we are already based on the Estonian-language education action plan, in which we also involve educational practitioners who work on a daily basis from Ida-Virumaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U134	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Üllar Saaremäe begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U135	[[Remote connection]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much for your answers. How do you comment on this somewhat regrettable story? In fact, Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, has written in the Russian Postimees last week and has claimed that the current coalition does not deal with the transition to education in Estonian. I ask your comment on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U136	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Certainly, the present coalition is working to provide the best possible education for all young people, regardless of their mother tongue. We know from statistics that the results of the PISA test for young Russian-speaking children are worse than the results of the PISA test for children of Estonian-speaking schools. We also know that on average too few Russian-speaking young people reach Estonian-speaking universities. Not because Russian youths are somehow less talented, certainly not, but because they do not reach our universities is primarily due to a lack of knowledge of the national language. I think that we certainly agree with the coalition partner that equal opportunities must be in our educational life for all young people, regardless of their mother tongue. This statement that the current coalition does not deal with the transition to education in Estonian, I think it will be very difficult to do in two years, but we will certainly be dealing with this issue. Indeed, a very dignified task force has been convened, with practitioners as well as scientists. Surely this process will not be easy; there will be many challenges. But we are starting this process and we are trying to be as practical as possible to help schools already so that children in both Estonian and other languages can receive the best possible education. So the quality of education in Estonian we will certainly continue to deal with, also in Russian-speaking schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U137	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U138	Hello, Minister. I come to the same question as Mr Üllar Saaremäe. Jaak Aab, who is indeed the leader of the delegation of governments of the Centre Party, said very directly that the transition of Russian-speaking schools to Estonian-language education will not come and close this issue. From what you are saying, I understand that by November a specific action plan will be put together, which will also include deadlines for switching to Estonian-language education. Just to be unambiguously clear, I ask whether the policy of the current government is that Russian-speaking schools are completely switched to Estonian-language education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U139	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. First of all, we have agreed in the coalition that we will increase the teaching of Estonian and in Estonian in early childhood education. We're gonna start there and we're gonna work out a plan. As far as Russian-speaking schools are concerned, when I have spoken to experts, it is clear that the state language cannot be understood simply by learning more Estonian. Experts say that they must learn more in Estonian. This means that we could move towards increasingly teaching not only Estonian but also more in Estonian in Russian-speaking schools. That's what immersion schools do. And, as I said, we have more than 7,000 basic school students who are already studying by the language immersion method. It is important that when young people are able to speak in Estonian, they also have someone to speak to in Estonian. Closer contacts between the two communities are also essential for the development of language skills.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U140	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have a specific question. Several of these people graduated from Tallinn and the University of Tartu last year, who received a diploma stating that he had an education as an Estonian teacher at a school in other languages. Exactly how many more came last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U142	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question, but I owe you an answer. I would ask my colleagues to reply in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U143	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U144	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, Minister! I remember how the Reform Party accused the previous government that it did not want to switch to Estonian education or teach Estonian. The Reform Party has submitted a draft that by 2021 all schools will have to be in Estonian. Claims that before we had to train teachers, draw up textbooks and methodologies, etc., and then gradually pass over these reasonings sounded like deaf ears. Today, you say the exact same thing yourself. So what's happened now? EKRE was bad-bad in the previous government, but now you're talking exactly the same thing. So what happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U145	[[Remote connection]] First of all, time has moved on. This time, which could have been spent developing education in Estonian, has not much to do with this time. Now we do. We're taking real steps. Indeed, I am deeply sorry that these educational institutions in Estonian, where a significant number of other-language children are already studying, have so far not received support from the state. For example, in Valga Elementary School, about 20% of children have a native language. For years, we have seen the tendency that children from Russian-language comprehensive school will move to Estonian-language comprehensive school, but we have not supported these educational institutions. Parents themselves are making their own decisions to implement a reform that the country has not dared to do. Not to mention Ida-Viru County. I gave an example of the Kohtla-Järve Järve School, where children in other languages are practically half with children in Estonian. This school has also not received more specific support. Understandably, the situation in these schools is considerably more complicated than in schools where all Estonian-language children are present. Surely this process cannot end in two years. We are going to start this very consciously, even by practically helping schools, because parents are already in the process of implementing this reform. And that the Reform Party will see a common education system in Estonian in the future, no one doubts. The current coalition has made its agreements for two years. In two years, we will start with early childhood education and make a proper plan of action, and we will also practically try to help schools in both Russian-speaking schools, so that they can teach Estonian and more and more in Estonian, as well as educational institutions in Estonian, where there are already more children in other languages, to support them so that children in other languages can adapt, integrate as quickly as possible and receive a good education, just as in Estonian schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U146	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U147	Thank you. Good minister! Inquiries are deeply concerned about the cultural identity of Estonian-Russian children in a mixed school you have just talked about. In your answers, you are always talking about two school systems: on the one hand, a school with an Estonian language of instruction, where children with other language of instruction learn and who need to be supported, and on the other hand, you are talking about schools with Russian language of instruction where you need to improve, improve teaching in Estonian and learn Estonian. What is your position: should we maintain separate schools for children with Estonian language of instruction and for children with Russian language of instruction, or do you still see such a common option? What happens then to fear that Estonians will lose their identity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U148	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. A number of studies have been carried out on this subject, and the recent RITA survey also covered this. Personally, I will certainly see a common education system in Estonian in the future, but that does not mean that there will be no exceptions in this education system that can be introduced. But in order for all young people living in Estonia to have a very good knowledge of the official language, so that their education does not have glass ceilings and that they receive a very good basic education in Estonian, upper secondary school education and also university education, it is essential to develop education in Estonian in view of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U149	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U150	Thank you. Honourable Minister! You could not answer Mikhail Stalnukhin's question that how many graduates as teachers of Estonian have been prepared for schools in other languages in the last year or in recent years. Can you answer the question: How many Russian-speaking teachers have been prepared for Russian-speaking schools at Estonian universities? We know that Russian is taught for decades. How many of these teachers have been prepared to carry out quality continuous teaching? Maybe you can answer that. And the second question. Jaak Aab has claimed that the current coalition does not deal with the transition to a common education system in Estonian; this government does not deal with this issue, but you say the opposite. Which one tells the truth, which one doesn't? Is it still the same coalition agreement, or is it a different coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U151	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I will send an answer to these precise numerical questions in writing, I do not have such statistics available. But we have agreed in [the coalition] that we will make an action plan for education in Estonian. This week on 23 April, a very honourable working group will meet to put together this action plan. We have agreed that I will present this action plan no later than November this year. This working group, which is going to draw up an action plan for education in Estonian, is led by Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education, who, by the way, has also studied the area of immersion more thoroughly, so he is essentially a very good expert. This working group also includes the head of the department of multilingual inclusive education, as well as the director of Jõhvi Russian Basic School, representative of the educational cluster of Ida-Virumaa, Director of Tallinn Kuristu Gymnasium, Director of Tartu kindergarten Kelluke, Director of Narva kindergarten Sun School, Representation of the Estonian Language as the Union of Second Language Teachers, Representation of Tallinn University, Representation of the University of Tartu, Director of Tallinn Polytechnic. There are really professionals in the field, and all of them consider this subject to be very important, or they would not have come to this working group. In this sense, we have a job in the ministry, a serious and substantial work to do. If you look at attitudes and assessments, you can see that in fact Estonian Russian citizens appreciate the education in Estonian and want to put their children into Estonian-language schools more and more, i.e. to implement the same reform of Estonian-language education. We are doing this as consciously as possible so that teachers are prepared, that our schools are prepared and have a good methodology. Then it's a win-win for all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U152	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U153	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I wanted to ask you that there was once a minister named Pärnoja who, in 1994, I think wrote a regulation stating that there could be no more than six other native-language children in the classroom. Are you aware of this so-called regulation? And is this regulation in the way of integration today, is it time and time? Or are you going to look at it and appreciate that maybe knowledge at that time has more science base than it does today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U154	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I think that this is just one of the questions that the called working group is answering. Clearly, the situation in schools with more children in other languages is more complicated. There is a need to think about how to organize learning as consciously as possible so that all parties can win. If this is done without a conscious choice, without a well-informed methodology, there may be more harm than benefits. I hope that this working group will provide an answer as to whether we have any limits. But actually, I think that if we have enough tools in the toolbox, we can certainly handle more than six other language children in the classroom.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U155	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. The first chair welcomes Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please! Please, you can have three more minutes, eight in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have some sad news for you at first. In fact, scientists claim that the Andromeda Nebula is approaching our solar system at an enormous rate, the impact is inevitable, the speed is 110 kilometers per second. With the time we have today's trial, he's approached by a million miles. Why I started this, I'll explain it to you later. Right now, to be honest, I'm talking about my personal problems. You know, I've been thinking about it for 20 years, especially in recent years, and I don't get it. In this hall, at least in this composition, more than 90% of the people are native Estonian. Why don't you believe your language? Why are you so obsessed with this? Why do you sometimes, I get this feeling, even hate it? Otherwise, you would have wondered how it would be possible for 33 years to begin with the adoption of the first language law in 1989, and this has been one of the main priorities of the country, but there is still no system of teaching the Estonian language. Not teachers, more or less there are. But why is there no clear methodology, which the Minister has now mentioned, by the way, there are no teaching tools? A little later, when there is a debate in this Chamber on a matter of national importance for the Committee on Problems, I will show it to you quite figuratively. Why do you always think that the reason why Russian students do less PISA tests or get into universities is because they have poor skills in Estonian? Is it not because their years of life have gone to a immersion where the focus is on teaching the Estonian language rather than on teaching the subjects? I have recently developed this understanding, after more or less calculating how much money has been wasted on solving the problem of Estonian language, there are hundreds of millions of euros, and the result is what it is, perhaps there is virtually no result that [Estonian] is a dairy cow. The Estonian language is indeed a dairy cow. None of you are going to see one doctor or another, choosing him according to his nationality. You're wondering if he has a diploma, does he have an internship, what he's like in his job, what other people say about him? But if it is an Estonian teacher, it is enough that he is Estonian. We teach him for a few months and send him to kindergarten or school, he should be a very good teacher, of course. Why do we not have a system for preparing teachers? A few years ago, one of our universities showed us a table in the Trouble Committee, which stated nicely that of the 27 people who went to a Master's degree to study at a foreign-language school as an Estonian teacher, two people completed and received a Master's degree. Where is the support system? Do you know how many hours it takes to learn Estonian, purely Estonian, and not in other classes? From the first to the 12th grade, 1569 hours. In the 1990s, when I was teaching a lot of Estonian, I had three students who, in 200 hours, reached category D from scratch and ended up working at school as an Estonian language teacher. Why have we not made any progress now? [No] teaching tools, teacher preparation, sound methodology and requirements? That's why I was talking about the Andromeda Nebula at the beginning, because it's been 3370000000 years until the impact. What seems really scary at first, actually, when you look at how much time you have, doesn't cost anything anymore. There is still time, there is no need to think about how to Estonia Russian schools. You can talk about it in Valga or Tartu, but I can't imagine how you're going to do it in Narva. I just can't imagine. There is a need to think about how to get high-quality learning tools. There is a need to think about how to secure the necessary number of university applicants in such a way that they study this profession for several years and how to make them take an interest. It is important to think about the fact that the state must have a standard of Estonian language for the school, not a foggy curriculum for each class, but the specific knowledge that needs to be required from primary school onwards. In the first half of the 1990's, working at the Narva Language Center, I was among those who told me to leave the adults alone, you better start teaching in kindergarten. It's just now that we're heading that way. A quarter of a century is needed to understand the simplest things. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Continue, I think, in June. I hope that we will then be able to talk further on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U157	Please, Raimond Kaljulaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you also for this discussion. Indeed, Jaak Aab, the head of the delegation of government of the Centre Party, made a very strong statement in the Russian Postimees a few days ago, saying that the transition of Russian schools to Estonian education will not come, we will close this issue. Exactly the same and very categorical statements have probably been made by most of the leaders of the Central Party, the representatives of the leadership. There has been a big title on the front page of the Tallinn municipal edition Stolitsa, which explains that we once again prevented the transition to Estonian-language education in Russian schools. This big Russian title was absolutely unambiguous and, of course, it is intended to inform society that it is a great victory. At the same time, we have two of them now in the coalition, the leaders of the Reform Party have said the opposite. Kaja Kallas has said in the "Actual Camera" that he considers the transition to education in Estonian as one of the most important priorities of this government, and he has also quite unambiguously emphasised it, affirming that it is indeed being dealt with. Jürgen Ligi, the vice-president of the Reform Party, who, during the coalition talks, stressed that it was not the teaching of the Estonian language that was agreed, as the Central Partyans speak, but the teaching of the Estonian language. In the meantime, I'm gonna ask if there's any technical failure here. I didn't cause it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U159	Yeah, we've got a technical malfunction. But until now, your voice has been nice to say, I believe, to those who are watching the transmission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U160	And the ambassadors in the hall. The government cannot have two different policies on such an important issue. That's not possible. From the Minister's replies today, we have heard that the plan is to come up in November with a concrete action plan and specific deadlines. Why November? But because the elections of local governments are held in Estonia on 17 October. And, of course, what's to deny there, the Centre Party is in an extremely difficult situation when it comes to the election. The coalition agreement with the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not very popular among these voters. The formation of a new government with the Reform Party on the right was again disappointing to many. Taking a very unambiguous position on the issue of oil shale in Ida-Virumaa is not popular either. This is why the Centre Party has a rather difficult crisis of confidence between itself and its constituents, a large part of whom are Russian-speaking people. Those statements, where one government party says the opposite of one and the other, read and watched, are very clear to me that the transition to education in Estonian has actually been agreed. The coalition agreement also actually confirms that. The coalition agreement says we're launching an action plan. Of course, it is very complicated and strangely worded, precisely to make the picture blurry, but'starting the action plan' is quite understandable. It is not said that we are drawing up an action plan, we are developing an action plan, we are going to draw up an action plan. No, we're launching an action plan. Good chairman, I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U161	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U162	Thank you! The state must be honest with its citizens and its policies must be understandable and understandable. If one government party speaks one thing and the other one speaks the other way around, it's a lie. It is cynical, it breaks trust between the state and its citizens. It is also clear that one party is lying. In the previous government, a minister had to resign because he lied here before the Riigikogu about the employment contract with his adviser. At the moment, at least one of the parties to the government is lying to all those people who care about or care about the future of Estonian education, to all parents whose children are affected, to schoolchildren themselves, teachers, school leaders, school staff. And nothing's gonna happen. It is good, at least, that the Minister's replies appear that the Ministry of Science and Education has involved schools, experts in the field. I think that the involvement of representatives of the Russian-speaking community in this process is also extremely important. But under no circumstances can the Riigikogu approve that such a major and significant change, the reform will be carried out so confusingly, providing people with conflicting information. This isn't right. You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U163	Next, please, Üllar Saaremäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U164	[[Remote connection]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The heated debate around the Lüganus School can be seen on the one hand as an attempt by the community to maintain and maintain the historic schoolhouse. That was a success. Glory for that! However, there is also a national dimension to this debate that we in the Riigikogu must bear in mind. Namely, the transition to Estonian-language education in all Estonian schools is conditional on the transfer of current Russian-language schools to the Estonian language of instruction. At the same time, we must hold on to today's good-quality Estonian-language schools, because much of this depends on how we can handle the task we have been set up. It is particularly important to maintain and protect schools with Estonian language of instruction in areas such as Ida-Virumaa, where the support area of the Estonian language is currently very weak. The disappearance of Estonian-language schools will result in the disappearance of important Estonian-language school education support points. The aim of bringing Estonian-language school families to bilingual schools in the centres is not the right way. This behavior is impoverishing the environment in the Estonian-speaking rural areas of Ida-Virumaa and means continuing to crowd out Estonian in the county. The more Estonian culture and education in the county, the salt of the country, the more it supports the transition to education in Estonian as a whole. It is true that, as a rule, the schoolmaster is a local government, but the state can contribute with its decisions and example to the transition to education in Estonian. It is therefore really regrettable to read the writing of Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, in last week's Russian Postimees, where he says that today's coalition does not deal with the transition to education in Estonian. There is nothing new in itself: in the last two and a half months Mikhail Kõlvart and Mailis Reps have expressed the same view. They constantly show by their words and actions that they are not interested in expanding the grip of the Estonian language. At the same time, the party of the Prime Minister may say that at some point in the distant future, discussions on the Estonian-language education plan will begin. That's right, discussions. But in essence, it means tacit acceptance of the preservation of Russian-speaking schools. However, if, at local level, the government of the political party of the Prime Minister wants to close the Estonian-language schools, we will arrive at a situation where the support of Estonian-language education will be reduced instead of preservation. We very much hope that the Reform Party will finally take action and aim for a transition to education in Estonian. The Fatherland stands ready to support this purpose with its counsel and strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U165	And now for the speech. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U166	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! Maybe I'd put the whole thing out as a question of will. This Estonian language is not the world's most difficult language. It seems harder to me to speak Dutch. It seems particularly difficult to me to speak French, which I have studied at the university for four semesters, but de facto I can say, 'Je m'apelle Tarmo. " But how have these countries been able to establish themselves as a country so that people have the will to learn that language? We are still focusing on it through the Minister who sends the message that Estonian is important and important, but just this! And then we're going to find these components, why don't we take care of it? Let me give you a simple example. When the Kadaka market with Finnish tourists flourished at the beginning of regaining independence, surprisingly, all sellers and servicemen learned to speak Finnish fluently. It's our kindred language, and it's actually maybe a little illogical and complicated for us too, but it was possible because they had the will, they had some motivation. It's not really the will of the government right now, it doesn't appear from the coalition. And if the minister is just furnishing it by thinking about the meters now, and then let's see how meters interact with other metrics in today's society, it's a substitute. You have to motivate people. Today, at local level, everything is done the opposite, everything is duplicated, everything is translated. There is no practical need for people to learn Estonian. It can't be the Prime Minister's party's line of action. We must find the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U167	And now, please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U168	Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Today's inquiry is partly motivated by what is happening around the Lüganus School, and I am pleased that the activities of the Members of the Fatherland both on the ground and here in the Riigikogu have not happened as a result of the urgent closure of this school, and we will have the opportunity to deal with this issue within a year. I very much hope that one Estonian language home in Estonia, as sensitive as Ida-Virumaa, will not disappear so easily. It has much broader and longer-term meaning than simply transforming a small rural school for economic efficiency purposes. Today's debate also has a broader objective. We know the situation in Ida-Virumaa in general and Tallinn. But it is absolutely shameful that 30 years after the restoration of the independence of the Estonian state and the declaration of the Estonian language, we are in a situation where Russian-speaking schools are still operating in Tartu, Valga and Pärnu. This is not a reproach for the currently in office government, which has only been able to hold office for a few months, but it is a complete complaint, a criticism, however, to all the governments that have acted during this period, and it is a confirmation that we need real policy in addition to slogans. Rumours that we do not need administrative pressure, no fixed dates, political decisions that would force schoolchildren, school leaders, local governments, to the country have not borne fruit, because we have not implemented robust measures to move to Estonian education throughout the Estonian education system. It has been very voluntary; it has largely depended on the political will and readiness of local authorities. This very liberal attitude towards the introduction of education in Estonian has not led to the desired result in 30 years. Therefore, there is reason to think that we should be more determined and consistent and that political will should be made clearer. Now for the present coalition. One minister, Jaak Aab, Minister of the Centre Party, and next to him Riigikogu member Reps and Mayor of Tallinn Kõlvart say that the current coalition does not deal with the transition to the Estonian education system. At the same time, the other half of the coalition, the reform parties headed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education, claim that we do. The real result is likely to be the same as in the past that nothing special happens. I agree with the previous speaker who said that this November date (the government took office in January), should an action plan be completed, has been deliberately chosen after the local elections, so that both parties could give different signals to their potential voters. Why do I think nothing's gonna happen? Because the action plan must also be covered by funds, but the government must submit a budget to the Riigikogu by the beginning of October. It should also be possible to read clearly from the budget the implementation of the action plan next year, but it cannot be there because the budget will be presented before the action plan is completed. Which means nothing's going on. And at the beginning of next year, there are already elections, regular elections, so... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U169	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U170	So those expectations and hopes for those who, in the course of these negotiations and in the form of questions, have expressed the opinion that the Reform Party is perhaps still trying to implement something in this coalition about the promises concerning the transition to education in the Estonian language I have to admit here, reading [these articles] and considering the dates that have been stated today that there will be no transition to education in the Estonian language during the current government, and not even a serious move towards it. And the wording that we are launching an action plan, without any specific dates, is no noise at all and no certainty about when and by which it will be launched, whether it will be launched in a year, two or three. Today, the Minister of Education said that this process cannot end in two years. I didn't realize what process couldn't end in two years. The Reform Party was much more specific in opposition on this issue. They were able to propose specific dates; proposals were made to the government by the Riigikogu. But now that you're in the government, you've forgotten those suggestions. It's a strange change. It still seems to me that better ideas, more concrete targets and clearer proposals will be on the Reform Party when they are in opposition, not when they are in coalition and exercising power. Perhaps there is no need for opposition intervention and support here; for the moment, it would be enough for the Reform Party to withdraw its own proposals, which they tabled a few months or a year ago in this very Chamber, and start implementing them. But they don't do that for some reason. Very regrettable. One thing we could do together in concrete terms is what the Pro Patria Party is considering proposing: legitimising the situation of those local governments where, within a time limit set by law, they cannot or will not switch to education in Estonian at general education schools, the state will take the schools away and start implementing public education policy there as a schoolkeeper. This would be our concrete proposal, a specific motivation for local governments, where they do not really recommend switching to the Estonian education system and complying with the laws in force in Estonia. This could be one concrete national step and an incentive for these local authorities. However, I call on the current government to act more specifically, not for a whole year to develop an action plan and say that after the elections we will present an action plan and then we will see what happens next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U171	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U172	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to speak at all today, but after such a moving speech as the previous speaker, I just need to say a few words. While in the government, the previous speaker was still very specific on this subject and voted down our draft, which provided for a transition to education in Estonian, three times by my count. Exceptionally concrete and honest behavior. But now come to the remote and tell me the coalition isn't working, it's not really sincere. I did not exactly catch what the minister answered the questions as to whether or not the government is dealing with the transition to education in Estonian. I would say that making a plan is also about working, and that is much more than what has been done so far. But, of course, it's the same flock that sat on and didn't move a centimeter, both EKRE and Fatherland, who sat for five years and two years, but did everything to prevent Estonian-language education. I hope that the current government will do more than just make a plan. I hope that this plan will be bold and that the Russians will eventually get rid of their isolation and competitiveness. So it has to be said, however, that this coalition is working more on this issue than the previous one, and it needs to be encouraged to act more courageously than it has now been described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U173	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Like the previous speaker, I wondered for a long time whether to speak. But you can't keep quiet. I am one of those who has acquired Estonian at the most common Russian-language school, and I am also one of those who has a master's degree in Estonian as a foreign language and is in the process of obtaining a doctorate in this field. But I didn't want to talk about me. Why did I mention myself? Because to say I know what I'm talking about. Not always the speakers in this courtroom know what they're talking about. Listening to these speeches and listening to the Minister's answers, I am actually quite sad. It is sad that we once again have a coalition for whom the topic of education in Estonian is one of the objects of a political game in this year of elections. As Mr Raimond said earlier, I am sure that the partners have agreed something with each other for a long time, I am thinking of coalition partners, and they have certainly also agreed on what messages they would send to the people. These messages have already been spoken many times today. One coalition partner says that hands away from the Russian-speaking school, another coalition partner says that we will begin the transition to Estonian-language education. Indeed, making a plan is also about dealing with it. But we've been making these plans for decades, and there's no way we're going to come up with one concrete plan to tell people exactly what's coming. We try, we make plans, we do committees, we do action plans, we do action plans, but there is no concrete clear message for us to tell people. It is known that for any nation, any mother - tongue parent, the education of his or her child and, consequently, the child's future is of the utmost importance. Every parent is worried about the education his or her child gets. But a situation where there are so many different signals from the government, just as ministers have not agreed on anything and are sending very different messages, is actually a disservice to all those parents and their children who do not know what to do and how to behave. That makes me very sad. If we ask the Minister or the Coalition what your vision of what this school is going to be like, whether we're going to have two schools, whether we're going to have a joint school, then there won't be an answer. We are setting up a Commission and we are going to make a plan. As one of the previous speakers said, making a plan is to deal with it. But again, it's not what people expect. People expect a very specific message in Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa, both in Tartu and Valga and elsewhere, where it is still possible to study in Russian at least until the end of primary school. In fact, the third position is saddened: to keep the Russians away from the Estonian school. This is definitely not the right message. Russian-language students, or rather their parents, very much want their children to study in Estonian. But you would learn to create all kinds of support systems for them, so that they can learn and learn their own language in addition to the Estonian language. On this, too, I have asked this court and briefing room, including the Minister of Education, where there is an action plan on what to do with those children who are more and more and more. Are we just starting to develop this agenda? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U175	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U176	Thank you. That's how we talk about making plans year after year, and so we don't have any messages for people. I am very sorry to hear when we say that Russian-speaking children in Estonian schools are a big problem, and we are worried about the identity of Estonian-language children. Russian children are not a problem at Estonian school. They are an opportunity to help, among other things, the same Estonian school to survive and develop and to continue its activities in regions where there are fewer children with Estonian native language. In this context, Ida-Virumaa is very often highlighted, for example Sillamäe Estonian Basic School. How many children are there with an Estonian language of instruction? In a good year, one to two, usually zero. But it is also an Estonian school and these children also study in Estonian and they have no problems and they are not a problem for Estonian society and they are not a problem for Estonians or for Estonian identity, because they are also our children. These topics need to be talked about, not to drag this school and these children into a political game, and to roll the ball from one gate to another, saying, on the one hand, that hands away from the Estonian school, and, on the other hand, that we will do everything we can to transfer Russian-language schools to Estonian-language education. Ladies and gentlemen, We could agree on these things for once, we could take the opinions of scientists once and for all. Five different models were developed under the RITA programme, how the Estonian school could exist as one. I do not know whether or not the new Commission set up by the Minister will also base these models. I'd like to hope so. So we should report just as well before the next elections that making a plan is also about dealing with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U177	Next, please, Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U178	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I guess I'm at least the third speaker who says that without previous calls, I wouldn't have taken the floor. Indeed, I was particularly moved by the former Minister of Education and Science of the Reform Party, who here arrogantly accused all other political parties that they had done nothing and they had no intention of doing anything, today's government, with the participation of the Reform Party, at least weighs and plans and thinks. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party, I want to ask you where you were before. You've been in power for 17 years, and absolutely nothing was done all this time. Nothing was done even when there was a man in the ministry, like an orchestra, who can speak in every field and knows everything. Why, then, were there absolutely no acts of action? Estonia has spent hundreds of millions of euros on integration. Today we see and, unfortunately, we have to admit that a large part of our Russian-speaking population, however, does not speak Estonian and the ability to speak Estonian is greatly improving among them. If it goes at the same rate, perhaps in 100 or 200 years we will be able to learn 100% Estonian. But that's out of the question. The Estonian language must be taught; the Estonian language is our official language. I do not know any country in Western Europe or elsewhere, where the country does not provide public education in the national language, but in some other languages. This is not the case in France, not Germany, not England, not Canada. Nowhere. But we have done so, and unfortunately we see that it is of no use at all. On the contrary, this education in Estonian, which has been offered in Russian-language schools, has been below all kinds of records. Therefore, students in Russian-language schools are also in a very bad position to advance to universities and later to get jobs. All of this has to be changed. The Estonian school must be in Estonian. And, of course, just as the Reform Party populistly here, while it was in opposition, accused the government, which included the EKRE, that you will see, you will stall and must immediately, in a year or two, switch to the Estonian language, well, of course, dears, you may have finally realized that this is not possible after you have been dragging here for 20 years, doing nothing. You have to start from scratch. You have to start in kindergartens, start in comprehensive school, etc., so that children grow up and study in that language. Otherwise, it's just not conceivable. The way you are now saying, as if you have changed your mind, that you are planning, you are planning, and at the same time your coalition partner is saying that you are not really planning or planning anything, means that these two years, which are until the next government is set up or the elections are, of course, I hope that, even before that, this failed government will fall, in these two years, in fact, you have no intention of doing anything to make our education system Estonian. It's another twilight, another fine-tuning. Once again, everyone can say that the story of the Reform Party is as empty as the drum. There's nothing to believe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U179	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U180	And, unfortunately, this is not the only area either, but we see this empty drum behind all things that would promote Estonia's well-being, our economy...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U181	Mr. Fieldace, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U182	...our own existence, our sovereignty. I'm really sorry that's the case. And that's why I'm going to say in your own words that you should finally do something. Show me you care a bit about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U183	Please, let's try to keep to the time. The members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes for words. Mr. Woodland, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U184	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, that's right. I have a procedural question. This is about asking my own question, but it is also generally very obvious. Is it technically possible to do this so that if we have a remote hearing and the manager gives a signal or rings a bell, there is a way to hear it [also through the computer]? I will be honest with you that this ringtone is not heard when a person is connected to the Riigikogu via a computer. It's a very embarrassing story. Maybe there's something we can do for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U185	I'm sure it's worth watching the clock for yourself, and it's the easiest thing to do, and there's no need for the manager to ring the bell. What time you're going to speak, I believe, will also show the clock on the computer screen nicely. You have five minutes, you can ask for three minutes. It's got to fit the call. The questions are one minute. Would the Minister like to conclude? Can't see [that request]. So I'm closing the negotiations. We have exhausted the third item and have also passed all the items on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U186	We can still speak in a free microphone. Anyone with a desire to speak in a free microphone, please sign up after the hammer hit. Mr. Metsoya, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U187	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Alongside the subject of language and culture, property has undoubtedly been a very important place in Estonia. Ownership has been important to Estonians all along. It has to do with the roots and the sense of mastership. What motivates me to say here today is that, some time ago, a judgment came specifically on property and it concerns the transfer of property in the protected area, or property, to the State. I have already studied from the Minister of the Environment a couple of times in this Parliament that this in itself sounds like the content of such a new order and precedent, the procedure has now reached the Supreme Court. At the time, the Minister said that it was too early to say something; this comprehensive document must be examined. Today this material reached the Riigikogu for the opinion of the Committee on the Environment. I was able to read the material myself this weekend, and I have to admit that it is actually a document written on the ground with relatively two legs, which, in my opinion, deals fairly fairly with the ultimate benefit that we all have to protect together, that is, nature, protected habitats. On the other hand, this explains very well how the state should do it exactly. In fact, after such a perhaps too narrow discussion only in the light of this case, the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu gave its opinion by a small majority on what the Supreme Court was asking whether this subject was contrary to our constitution. I dared to disagree, and very clearly I also expressed my view that indeed, in the context of this case, as it has been written out, it is obvious to me that this is an unequal treatment of owners and there is also constitutional interference. But, well, the judgment will ultimately be judged by the court. What worries me is, in fact, that in a very short time, we were given a deadline of April 21st, the Commission had to shape a position. If we had not given this position, this position would not have arisen. In my opinion, it is high time that Parliament launched a slightly bigger debate on this issue. This may be the case, for example, in the context of the disposal of nature reserves, where the land of the owner has acquired protected values and the owner is no longer able to use the land as originally intended. Similar problems can also be pointed out in the context of the KAHOS law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest, when it comes to strategic projects which are important and important for the state and which have to go through private property. In the context of the Nature Conservation Act and in the context of the transfer of land to the State, if the owner is interested, we will be guided by the principle that the State does not take into account the grants received, whether they are Natura site grants or some kind of targeted protection zone subsidies received on that land, and that they are not offset, but according to KAHOS [is otherwise]. The state tells the land owner, whose property is often an economic land, it is then arable land or forest land, and who has received private forest subsidies, such as lighting rails or plantings, the state tells him that we are offsetting the aid received. I think this is a screaming injustice. So the owner doesn't think about receiving support, but he actually thinks about what the state prescribes, that if you chop, you recover, and when you manage the economic forest, you cut the lights. These grants are designed to make this activity more intensive and, in future, our natural values will be better and our resources will be better developed. I think that all Members could think about taking this issue into greater interest. We have here, I feel like what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-19_U188	There are no more calls in the free microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the sitting. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Good night.
