ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 6th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to submit inquiries or drafts? Yes, it is. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U2	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. The inquiry is about reducing the volume of funding for research grants in 2021. During the previous government, the research agency became these grants with a considerable amount of money, and the previous government significantly increased the volume of research funding, amounting to 56 million euros. This year, however, the research agency announced that the amount of grant money would be reduced three times. There were 16 million last year, 18 million last year, and 6 million this year. This decision was made on 9 February, i.e. during the new government. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas used the word'scientific' in his so-called throne speech in every other sentence. However, there was no word about science in the coalition agreement, and now we see that it was not random. Funding is also declining drastically. I have a number of questions in this regard, and I ask the Minister to answer them not to focus on how this disgraceful situation arose through the fault of previous governments, but on how he wants to solve this problem and how to make sure that this year is not a black year in Estonian science, as he fears he will come in other areas as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U3	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please! [[Silence.]] Do we have a connection problem? Let's wait a minute. Riho Breivel, do you copy? [[Silence.]] It's hard to see if there's a problem with Riho Breivel or if there's a problem elsewhere. Riho Breivel, in touch... Please, we can't hear you, Riho! Please turn the mike on! [[Silence.]] Looks like we still have a problem with the connection, but we'll solve it by eating wolves and the sheep healthy. Since Riho Breivel has a desire to submit an inquiry electronically and electronically it has been received by us, we consider this inquiry to be accepted and all members of the Riigikogu will know exactly what the question is submitted to and to whom. But right now, the connection won't allow us to do it online. Kalle Grünthal, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U4	Yes, thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, this moment, when we are unable to get in touch, shows that we should not go very lightly to an electronic sitting, because it obviously creates and has already created failures in the normal functioning of the Riigikogu. It would still have been very interesting to know what Riho Breivel presented in the sense that we do not know at this point. I would ask the Riigikogu to review the principles on which the transition to a remote session is based. The last time it was a coincidence that they wanted to cross over, but the fillage of the hall and the rate of illness here weren't at all... well, it was practicallyn't. I have such a request to the Board of the Riigikogu to take this issue more seriously in order to go to a remote hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U5	Thank you. I totally agree. This form of teleshopping is not common for us, it is extraordinary. And, as we all know very well, the Bureau did not agree on this and we voted on it in the big Chamber. So this decision has been made on the basis of home and working procedures, and we are now working in the form of teleworking. But as I said, Riho Breiveli's inquiry... Or is it a bill? No, an inquiry. The inquiry submitted to the Minister for the Environment, Tõnis Möldr, has been accepted as it has been submitted electronically. So this is going to the process, and we can move things forward on the basis of the rules of procedure and home. Okay. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. I have adopted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu Board and the Riigikogu Board processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U6	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U7	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have two items on the agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft Act 295 on the Amendment of Social Welfare Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A meeting of the Social Committee was held on 15 February and attended by all the members of the Committee. We discussed the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws and the preparation for a second reading. Other advisers of the Child Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Helen Jõks and Marge Hindr, as well as Deputy Director Jan Trei and Adviser Mailiis Kaljula, were invited. We went through this bill together. Advisor to the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, Mailiis Kaljula pointed out that the group of recipients of the aftercare service needs to be expanded. A written opinion was also submitted to the Commission. He explained that, according to the state budget, the local government would receive support for the provision of replacement and after-care services, organisation and support for care families. As the extension of the group of recipients of aftercare services may lead to an increase in costs, the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities also proposed to supplement the Act amending the Social Welfare Act. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs agreed with this observation and said that it was important to introduce it there, and the Ministry of Social Affairs assumes that it will not generate any additional costs, as the current law also requires the provision of services to this target group. The members of the Commission also examined that now, in addition to the contract of command, it is possible to conclude contracts of employment, so why is this the case? It was given concrete answers and said that it is now also possible to switch to a contract of employment and this means that [options] will be more flexible and social guarantees better. One amendment was examined and all were in agreement in favour of this amendment in the Commission. Then the following decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 25 February, to propose that the second reading be closed (consensus) and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading and the final vote be held on 10 March, including by consensus, and to appoint Siret Kotka as the representative of the lead committee. So that's how this bill was sent to a full second reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U9	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment to the draft has been tabled; it has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 295. The second reading has therefore been completed and our first item has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U10	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft Act 294 on the ratification and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the facilitation and protection of investments. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimetsa as a waitress. Excuse me, Minister. Before we go to your report, Ivi Eenmaa is a procedural question. Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U11	Thank you! It's really procedural. I just couldn't sign in for some reason, and that's why I'm asking you to consider that I'm taking part in the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U12	The Registry will certainly examine the technical possibilities and we have now all seen visually that you are actually attending the session. Thank you. Let's move on. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U13	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! Today I bring to the Riigikogu the draft Act ratifying the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the amendment and termination of the agreement to facilitate and protect investments. The objective of the agreement is to amend and terminate the bilateral agreement with Finland on the facilitation and protection of investments. Similarly, the agreement with Sweden has recently been concluded in autumn 2020. The agreement to be amended and terminated was signed on 13 February 1992 in Tallinn and entered into force on 2 December the same year. Termination is necessary to ensure equal treatment of investors in all Member States of the European Union under European Union law. Investment promotion and protection agreements concern areas governed by European Union law, in particular the freedom of establishment and the free movement of capital and payments. Thus, the protection of investments between Member States and the equal treatment of investors are governed by European Union law and Member States' bilateral agreements have no substantive meaning. The Contracting Parties have decided to amend the Agreement before its termination, as the provisions of the Agreement provide that the Agreement will continue to apply to investments made during its term ten years after the termination of the Agreement. The amendment will achieve the full end of the agreement's implementation. I'm done here. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U14	Thank you, Minister. Members of the Riigikogu are currently asking you questions... Still is. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You finished your presentation at the place where you said that the contract would end everything that had happened before. Please tell us how the investment process continues between Estonia and Finland!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U16	The investment process continues between Estonia and Finland, based on European Union law. There is now a situation where this bilateral agreement actually duplicates what we have agreed with the basic acts of the European Union. So the investment process between the two countries continues on the basis of the present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U17	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U18	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here that about 190 bilateral agreements have been concluded between the Member States of the European Union to promote and protect investment. There are no 190 countries in the European Union. And now I read that the European Commission has called for the termination of all the agreements between them. Open up some of that background! There are no 190 Member States, the European Commission insists. Here's the reference to the court. What does that mean? Does this essentially mean that countries do not interact with each other, but communicate through Brussels?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U19	Thank you. There are several components in your question. I will start with the first part concerning the number of contracts. This is the number of agreements concluded between the various Member States. Just as Estonia had concluded it with Finland, before I referred to the agreement with Sweden and there were several. Similarly, both Finland and Sweden have bilateral agreements with other Member States of the European Union that were concluded before their accession to the European Union. Therefore, this 190 refers not to the number of Member States but to bilateral agreements between Member States. That's the total volume. Not only the Estonian treaties, but the total volume of bilateral agreements in force in Europe. And indeed, it is now in the process of organising the 'contractual base' of the Member States, where the bilateral agreements concluded by the countries prior to their accession to the European Union are repealed and remain solely with this common European Union agreement. Within the framework of this Treaty on European Union, bilateral investment activities between countries continue; they do not go through Europe. It is simply this legal framework that has been agreed jointly in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U20	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The question is very simple. Does this draft law, which deals with the amendment of the Treaty, also coincide with the Treaty of Lisbon? And if he does, please state the points of this Treaty of Lisbon so that I can look exactly at it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U22	Thank you for that question. I must respond to this later in writing to refer to the precise points of the Treaty of Lisbon, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U24	Good manager! Madam Secretary! Yeah, 190 contracts. I would like to know if all these have already been completed among the Member States of the European Union. But specifically that kind of question. It says here that three countries, Austria, Sweden and Finland, did not sign the agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union and wish to terminate these agreements bilaterally. How can it be assessed, in a more general way, that three of these countries are one of Finland's countries, whose agreement we are talking about today, declare that they are doing it themselves, rather than being subject to Brussels's order?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U25	Thank you for that question. We're in the process of reorganizing the contractual base. And why didn't I bring all these contracts to you at once, or did my predecessor not bring them to you at the same time when he brought before you, the honourable Riigikogu, the termination of the investment agreement with Sweden last year? This is due to the fact that all the bilateral agreements concluded by the Estonian state in the early 1990s, mainly before joining the European Union in 2004, differ in substance. Therefore, first of all, before we bring it to the Riigikogu or prepare a draft ratification, we will negotiate bilaterally with these countries and discuss exactly how we will end this agreement. That's why it goes like this in one contract. And the content of this previously concluded agreement also gives rise to the way in which we can terminate this agreement now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U26	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! I have this question as to whether the bilateral agreements that have now been concluded, whether they are timeless. And if they are timeless, would it not be more reasonable to suspend these contracts? Because if there is such a situation that the European Union will cease to exist, then we can proceed automatically with the agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U28	Thank you. That is a very interesting legal question. This alternative to suspension has not been addressed, as far as I know. This can certainly be seen in the case of the following agreements, but right now, yes, we have considered it right to conclude these agreements precisely because they duplicate our parallel legal framework in the European Union, where investment protection is already guaranteed in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U29	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said it was supposed to be correlated with the Treaty of Lisbon. I have this question: what is your assessment? You have not mentioned to me the points on which your position is based. I would like to know what your opinion is at all about the European Commission, the legislation and arrangements that come from the European Union. Are they superior to the Constitution of Estonia, or is there any way in the Constitution of Estonia to continue and carry out the will and will of its country?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U31	Thank you for this important question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Estonia has been independent in its decisions once it has become a member of the European Union, and all the time it speaks in the shaping of this right, and also in those decisions, which activities are within the competence of the Member State, which activities are in shared competence and which have been entrusted to the European Union. In this, the Estonian state continues to talk about it all the time, and it will do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U32	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's keep going. Ms Imre Sooääre, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U33	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 7 December 2020. The Committee on Foreign Affairs was appointed as the leading committee by decision of the Riigikogu Board. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for the first reading at its meeting on 15 February. Seven members of the Commission took part, two were absent. During the debate on the draft, the Foreign Minister, Eva-Maria Liimets, gave an overview of the content of the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. The questions were similar to those already heard in this Chamber today, and the Minister gave them thorough answers. For the record, Estonia has completed bilateral investment protection agreements with the Czech Republic, Italy, Denmark, Poland and Sweden. On 17 November 2020 Estonia concluded eight bilateral agreements by means of an agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union ratified by the Riigikogu. These are Spain, the Netherlands, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, France, Germany and Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union. The Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions by consensus: the proposal to put a draft 294 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading on Thursday, 25 February and the Commission's proposal to conclude the first reading. By decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Imre Sooäär, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the rapporteur. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not decide on the deadline for amendments, the Bureau would set the normal ten working days for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U34	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U35	That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-25_U36	Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 294. Ladies and gentlemen, the first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for tabling amendments, including 11 March at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is over and the session is closed. I'll see you next week.
