ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. [[It's ringing the bell.]] I understand the excitement of all of us being back in the hall, but we still have to get to the hearing. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we calm down a little bit and quieter, it will be possible to listen and see if anyone has a desire to hand over drafts and enquiries. Aivar Rahno, representative of the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U2	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act. In its proceedings, the Government shall be represented by the Minister of Health and Labour. Secondly, the draft law amending the State Budget Act. The Government shall be represented by the Minister of Finance when dealing with this draft. Third, the State's Draft Supplementary Budget Act 2021. The Government shall be represented by the Minister of Finance when dealing with this draft. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and the Tax Administration Act. In its proceedings, the Government shall be represented by the Minister of Health and Labour. All these drafts have been sent to the Riigikogu electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U3	Thank you very much. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has adopted four drafts and the Management Board decides on their further procedure in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, as usual. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are faced with the election of the Riigikogu's board of directors. Regardless of the results of the elections, I would like to thank the President of the Riigikogu Henn Põljaa and, of course, Vice-President Helir-Valdor Seeder for the work he has done. Whoever's gonna be on the new board is your decision, and that's what we're about to go to. But before we can get to it, we need to run a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U4	80 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 21. We can start the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U5	So, ladies and gentlemen, Riigikogu Board Elections. First of all, let me introduce our procedure in this case. According to § 69 of the Constitution, the Riigikogu elects the President of the Riigikogu and two vice-chairmen from among its members. In organising elections, the Election Committee of the Republic follows the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Before we go to the election procedures, let's go over this procedure once more. For voting purposes, the members of the Riigikogu are divided between voting areas according to the alphabetical order of the names. I will introduce the voting procedure a little later. First we will elect the President of the Riigikogu. The Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu are elected at the same time after the election of the Chairman of the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu may appoint a candidate. After the election of the President of the Riigikogu, candidates for the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu shall be appointed. The proposer must also give his or her consent. Voting shall be by secret procedure and shall be carried out by means of a ballot paper. Each member of the Riigikogu has one vote in the election of both the Chair and Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. The votes shall be read publicly immediately after the end of the vote. Objections to the organisation of the vote shall be submitted to the selection panel immediately after the end of the vote and on the outcome of the vote after the results of the vote have been announced. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be much more comfortable for me to communicate with you if you were a little quieter. It's an important procedure, it's worth listening to. The result of the election shall be announced immediately after the possible protests have been examined. The candidate who receives more than half of the valid votes shall be elected Chairman of the Riigikogu. If no candidate receives more than half of the valid votes, an additional round shall be held between the two candidates with the highest votes. In the case of equal numbers of votes, lots shall be cast. If there is only one candidate on the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu, he will be elected if he receives more votes in favour than against. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? No, it doesn't. Then I am pleased to ask the members of the Riigikogu if anyone would like to appoint a candidate for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. You've written this request in different places. Since it has to be a remote control, please press "Speech." Mailis Reps gets the word first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U6	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen! I am extremely pleased to present Jüri Ratas as the candidate for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. As we all know, this is a member of the Riigikogu who has considerable political experience as the head of Estonia's largest government, Prime Minister and Chairman of the Centre Party. Between 2005 and 2007, Jüri Ratas was the mayor of Tallinn. In the following four years he served as Vice-Chairman of Parliament. In the two previous governments, Jüri Ratas held the Prime Minister's responsibility for more than four years. The first emergency situation in re-independence Estonia will remain during this period, which helped to cope successfully with the first wave of COVID-19. Finally, for nearly 4.5 years, Jüri Ratas has been the leader of Estonia's largest party, the Centre Party. Thus Jüri Ratas is a very dignified candidate for the chair of the Riigikogu. I sincerely hope that he will receive our mutual support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U7	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, Good chairman of the sitting! Mr Pevkur thanked the members of the outgoing board. This thanks can undoubtedly also be shown in the vote. We set up the candidacy of Henn Põllea as the Speaker of the Riigikogu. In the opinion of our party, Henn Põlluaas has been perfectly managing the Riigikogu in the last two years. He has demonstrated the utmost peace, determination, balance and political skill of the Riigikogu in shepherding the cat herd. With him as a partner in the political party, I can personally confirm that he is a person who reconciles and calms, a person whom one can always be sure. At the same time, our party believes that Jüri Ratas must be put in opposition. Jüri Ratas resigned in January, taking political responsibility for the dirty corruption scandal that hit his party. This resignation was, of course, rewarded by staying in the government of the Central Party. But we don't think it should be rewarded by getting the speaker there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U9	There will be no more candidates. Thus, two candidates have been nominated. It is now left to ask whether the candidates themselves agree. Mr. Jüri Ratas, do you agree to apply for the chairmanship of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U10	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U11	Please also deliver this confirmation in writing to us. Mr. Henn Põllaas, do you also agree to be elected Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U12	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U13	I'm also asking for your written consent to be delivered to us. Honourable Riigikogu, I close the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. I now announce a short break so that the electoral committee of the Republic can prepare ballot papers. I have one very big request for you: please do not go to the voting areas yet. After the break, we will also review the voting procedure. At the end of the intermission, I'll give you an audible signal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U14	Honourable Riigikogu! Break's over. If I may ask your attention, the Riigikogu Election Committee has prepared the ballots and is ready to conduct the election of the President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission will have to check the voting boxes in front of you and seal them with security seals. So please check the ballot boxes, show that they are empty, and seal them off. As long as the Republic Election Commission seals the boxes, let me introduce the voting arrangements. To choose, we have prepared six voting areas. First, the lobby of the main building of the Riigikogu. Second, the conference room on the second floor of the south wing (Otto Strandman's room) or L240. The third room is the art hall of the Riigikogu on the second floor of the southern wing. The fourth is the hall of Kalevipoeg on the second floor of the main building of the Riigikogu. The fifth is a third-floor gallery of the south wing, or exhibition hall. And the sixth, if necessary, of the Riigikogu. Every member of the Riigikogu shall vote in the voting area of which he is on the list. We ask the members of the Riigikogu not to vote at the same time, but to follow the alphabetical order of the list. This means that voters who are in the middle and at the end of the list should go to vote later. We ask to enter the voting area one by one and follow the guidelines of the voting organisers. While we are waiting to enter the voting area, we are, of course, asking for distance between ourselves. The Election Committee gives a voting slip to a member of the Riigikogu. In doing so, we ask the members of the Riigikogu to show the electoral commission their identity document in order to receive a ballot paper. This can be a certificate, passport, identity card or driving licence of a member of the Riigikogu. The member of the Riigikogu will sign the ballot paper and then remove the ballot paper from the table. For the purpose of signing and filling in the note, please use either one-time or one-time writing tools in the voting room. The ballot papers shall be completed behind the pass of the vote. If there are several candidates, as we have, a member of the Riigikogu will mark a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he is voting for. Voting ballots indicating the name of more than one candidate or not indicating the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. After completing the ballot paper, you break the note, go to the voting box and let your ballot paper in the voting box in person. If you have accidentally erred or violated the ballot paper and notice it before the ballot box is released, you have the right to receive a new ballot paper if the corrupt note is returned. Mr. Ligi, you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U15	No, I only have the answers. Maybe it started by accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U16	Got it. It's good to have answers. However, if Mr Near does not have any questions, does anyone else have questions about voting procedures? No, it's not. Very good. I would also like to remind you that at the time of the election, only members of the electoral committee and people serving the electoral committee may be present in the voting area in addition to members of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! According to § 87 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu have 30 minutes to vote from the beginning of the voting. The vote shall begin five minutes after the start of the intermission. It's 10:28. I shall give a signal of the end of the vote. I now announce the vote in the election of the President of the Riigikogu and in five minutes I ask you to vote according to the lists and alphabetical order. Break for the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U17	Honourable Riigikogu! I declare the vote closed when the President of the Riigikogu is elected. The ballot boxes have already been brought to the hall. Now I have to ask whether the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting. No protests. I would now ask the electoral commission to check the voting boxes and see if the security seals have been violated. Good election committee, I ask you to open the boxes and start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I would ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly. This will be carried out by Oliver Kask, Chairman of the Election Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U19	Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U20	First I read the votes given to Jüri Ratas: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63. Henn Võljaala väljased: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. Lashed notes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U21	I would also ask the election committee of the Republic to draw up a record of the results of the vote. I hereby announce the results of the vote in the election of the President of the Riigikogu. The electoral committee of the Republic established the following figures in the counting of votes. Number of members of the Riigikogu listed: 101. Number of members of the Riigikogu received a voting slip: 98. Number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the vote: 98. Number of unsuccessful ballot papers: 15. Number of votes cast on the candidates for the President of the Riigikogu: Jüri Ratas Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the determination of voting results? No protests. I hereby declare the election result in the election of the President of the Riigikogu. First, the decision needs to be signed, then we can formally take care of everything. Now, we also have the decision signed by the Riigikogu Election Committee "Identifying the results of the election of the President of the Riigikogu," which says that pursuant to § 7 (5) and § 82 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Election Committee of the Republic decides to recognise Jüri Ratas as elected Chairman of the Riigikogu. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of signature. [[Let's hear it.]] Dear members of the Riigikogu, we will certainly have more time to congratulate later, and now we must proceed with the sitting. I ask the newly elected President of the Riigikogu to replace me. Good Jüri Ratas, congratulations on your election as Chairman of the Riigikogu! I'd be happy to hand this hearing over to you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U22	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! I thank you very much for your trust. Thank you to the Election Commission, thank you very much for this first stage. And I want to say, in front of all of you, a big thank you to Henn Põllea. Henn, thank you for the work you have done as Chairman of the Riigikogu! The work of the Chairman of the Riigikogu will certainly mean responsibility for the responsibility that I bear with you in order to stand up for all the people of Estonia. Their concerns and joys, both from our beloved Estonia and from other parts of the world, must respond in this hall. As a people's ambassador, we will address the future of Estonia as a whole. I hope that soon we can work every day as we do today. But this assumes that the members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber have been vaccinated. I thank you, hello to all of us and a lot of strength! Thank you. I apologize to you if I don't get it right at first. I believe that you will help me with this sitting at first. Let's go on: Election of the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! The election of the vice-presidents of the Riigikogu is basically the same procedure that we did in the election of the chairman. The two candidates who have received the most votes will be vice-chairmen of the Riigikogu. The first vice-chairman shall be the candidate who has received more votes and the second vice-chairman shall be the candidate who has received the number of votes. If the result of the votes is equal, an additional round shall be held. I will introduce the voting procedure to you before the beginning of the vote. I understand that members of the Riigikogu also have questions before we can go to the nominations. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U23	Thank you. I have such a problem that your voice is very muffled and there's nothing to say back here. Is it possible to speak up or to take other measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U24	Thank you. I'm trying to speak louder and with a better dictation. Thank you very much. So, and now we can go to the nominations. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Mart Võrguship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U25	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, congratulations! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe his actions speak best for a man. Hanno Pevkur has been Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu in 2017 and 2018 and has been Vice-Chairman of the current Riigikogu for more than a month. During this time, we have seen a respectful and dignified attitude towards our colleagues and a very professional leadership of the sitting. I propose Hanno Pevkur as candidate for Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and ask you all to support his candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U26	Siim Pohlak's speech chair in the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Martin Helme will be nominated as Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Martin Helme is a person with a thorough and good ability to deepen. His strength in the position of deputy speaker would certainly be to have a thorough knowledge of Parliament's rules of procedure and procedures, experience as a Member of Parliament and leader of a political group, as well as the ability to listen to people. Martin Helme was responsible for the government as a Minister of Finance in the previous government and has successfully run an organisation with more than 9,000 members, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I am convinced that when the Riigikogu is elected Vice-Chairman, Martin Helme will also do this work with his heart and thoroughly. The application for nomination is submitted digitally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U28	Thank you, Siim! No more calls, so no more candidates will be put up. And now, as our turn envisages: is Hanno Pevkur willing to stand as Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U29	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, thank you for asking. Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U30	I would also like to ask for this in writing. Does Martin Helme agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? A microphone for Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U31	Thank you. I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U32	Thank you. Please, Martin, it's also in writing! Honourable Riigikogu, there is no more desire to apply. Both candidates have agreed to apply and also submitted them in writing. According to § 7 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the nominated candidates have given their consent to apply. So I close the list of candidates for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and announce a break for the appointment of candidates for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu on the ballot paper. I ask the members of the Riigikogu not to go to the voting areas yet. These areas are the same as they were in the election of the chairman. After the break, I will introduce the voting procedure and give a signal of the end of the break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U33	Good fellows, recess is over. The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to conduct the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission are checking the voting boxes right here before you and closing them with security seals. Please! Thank you. Good fellows! The ballot boxes are now ready. They're sealed with security seals in front of all of us. The voting procedure is the same as for the election of the President of the Riigikogu and takes place in the same voting areas. A member of the Riigikogu shall tick a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. Do Riigikogu members have any questions about voting procedures? No questions asked. There is time for voting, honourable Riigikogu, 35 minutes from the beginning of the vote. The vote shall begin five minutes after the start of the intermission. I shall give a signal of the end of the vote. I declare the vote on the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U34	Good fellows! I declare the vote closed in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. The ballot boxes are already here in front of us. Dear colleagues, do you have any protests about voting? No protests. Please check the voting boxes and the security seals on the ballot boxes. Thank you. The election board says the seals have been checked. Now I ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm asking the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly. Please, Chairman of the Election Commission, Oliver Kask!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U35	Thank you. First I read the votes given to Mr Pevkur: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59. The votes cast on Mr Helme: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28. Lashed notes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-18_U36	Thank you. I am also asking the Republic Election Commission to draw up a record of the results of the vote. I will announce the results of the vote on the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Protocol on the results of voting in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. 'The Vabariigi Election Commission established the following figures in the counting of votes. Number of members on the list: 101. Number of members of the Riigikogu received a voting slip: 93. Number of members who took part in the vote: 93. Number of unsuccessful ballot papers: 6. Number of votes cast on the candidates of the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu: 59 votes cast by Hanno Pevkur, Martin Helme 28 votes cast. " Signed by Oliver Kask, Chairman of the Election Commission. Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the determination of voting results? There don't seem to be any protests. I would also ask the Republic Election Commission to make its own decision on the results of the elections. The decision states that the decision of the Electoral Commission has been adopted on the basis of subsections 7 (6) and 82 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act. Point one: declare Hanno Pevkur elected as the first vice-chairman of the Riigikogu. Point two: declare Martin Helme elected second vice-chairman of the Riigikogu. Point three: the decision shall enter into force upon signature. Signed by Oliver Kask, Chairman of the Election Commission. I hereby declare the election result in the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu. I would like to thank the Election Commission, headed by its chairman, Oliver Kase. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] Good Riigikogu, let's move on. I would like to thank Mr Seeder very much for the work of the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Thank you for the very important and serious work you have done. Good fellows! Honourable new board! With your permission, since we also have the rules of the corona virus, I would ask the new board to come to this table for a joint picture. I ask Hanno Pevkur, the first vice-president of the Riigikogu, and Martin Helme, the second vice-president of the Riigikogu, to come here. The sitting is adjourned.
