ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 18th working week of the V plenary session. As always, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries at the beginning of the sitting. First Eduard Odines, please! Ladies and gentlemen, quiet in the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have the honour to pass on an inquiry or a draft, but to hand over another document, a much more interesting one. According to § 9 (4) of the Anti-Corruption Act, the Special Anti-Corruption Committee is obliged to provide the Riigikogu with an overview of the activities and results of the committee once a year. It is my honour today to give you an overview of the work of the Special Committee on Corruption from June of last year until June of this year. In total, we had 34 sessions, which is quite a large number for our committee. We have discussed a wide range of topics. In this one minute, maybe I'll tell you the most important of them. For example, we have been very busy implementing the GRECO recommendations. GRECO is an anti-corruption organisation of the Council of Europe. We've developed lobby rules. We have dealt with the issues of the COVID-19 crisis, for example, on possible corruption in vaccination, as well as on the implementation of crisis measures. In the case of the implementation of crisis measures, you are also well aware of today's news concerning the Rural Promotion Foundation, and certainly you are also familiar with the Porto Franco scandal. We have also dealt quite a lot with the possible use of public funds by senior public officials in private interests. We have, of course, also dealt with the declarations of interests of all you and other senior civil servants. And we've dealt with a lot of private individuals and organizations. I suggest you look at the report of the Special Committee on Corruption. If you have any questions, requests or suggestions, you are always welcome. The report has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U3	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over, on behalf of 30 members of the Riigikogu, a motion of distrust from the EKRE Group and the Isamaa Group against Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. In our opinion, Kaja Kallas has completely played off any trust credit he had when he put the government together and took office. For more than five months, the government has made a number of decisions that undermine, demolish and reduce society's sense of security, and we do not believe that today's government can continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U5	I have adopted one report and one draft on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The Bureau shall decide on their subsequent procedure in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U6	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one small detail to give you on today's agenda. The 10th item, namely the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws 292, is presented by Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, and the Committee on the Environment has proposed that a co-report be made by the Minister of the Environment, Tõnis Möldr. So, let's go to today's agenda... Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U7	Yes, thank you, good vice chairman! Yesterday, coming from the Communist victims' memorial, I heard an introduction from the ERR about the Bill 366. It was said that a single database would be created. But Andrei Korobenik here in the process said that two databases would be created. We have obviously handled a completely wrong bill during the second reading. Or is it because the press has been given one information and the ambassadors have been invited to participate on the basis of a completely different information? In this case, how can we deal with the draft at third reading today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U8	This is not a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U9	Thank you, Mr President. We have today as the first item on the agenda...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U10	Mr. Grünthal, I'm sorry for a moment. Colleagues, I find it difficult to hear what Mr Grünthal is saying. If you can keep it down a bit, I can answer Mr. Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U11	Thank you, Mr President. We have today the first item on the agenda of the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on identity documents initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 366. Here is a conditional statement that if the second reading is completed. The question is that we cannot deal with this item today because yesterday the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the various issues that arose there, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the lead committee, did not take a decision to send it to third reading in the Chamber today. Therefore, please delete this first point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U12	Thank you. The decision that there will be a third reading has previously been made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and we have put it on the agenda just like that. We have also completed the second reading, to which you rightly referred. Mr. Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U13	Thank you, good vice chairman. Well, different interpretation. I think it is important information when Estonian National Broadcasting is given one information and we are processing something else in this Chamber. They're two pretty different things, either there's one database, or they're just like us ambassadors were told there are two different databases. How can we continue like this? Where has there been, say, a big mistake? Has national broadcasting been deliberately misled, or have there been [misleaded] ambassadors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a first and second reading here, during which it has been possible to ask all the questions about this draft. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday we didn't get to the Water Act. Now I see that the Water Act is on the agenda today as the sixth item. My question is whether we will continue to read the second reading where it left off.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U16	Yeah. Mr. Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U17	Thank you, Mr President. The information you've given me is a little misguided. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs adopted a decision between the first and second reading to send the [draft] to the second reading on a date specific, but on the third reading in order to send it to the Riigikogu for discussion, such a decision has not been adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as a commission. In this sense, your information is incorrect and, therefore, because the commission has not sent this draft to the third reading, we will not be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U18	The grand hall of the Riigikogu yesterday approved our work programme for this week. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U19	Good manager! Based on the previous talk about 366, whether it is lawful to discuss it. You said that since we've approved the agenda in this form, you can't change it, but now, a moment ago, you came up with a proposal to scrape me out of the role of waitress on item 10. How do the two come together?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U20	This decision, I understand, has been made by the Committee on the Environment that the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment will be present. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Also, the view that you say that the agenda is confirmed is not the basis for this matter, because there is a condition inside that if the second reading is completed. Okay, I agree with that. But in order to bring this hall, the decision of the commission is also necessary. The commission may also take such a decision as to postpone this debate or any other option. The decision to enter the hall has not been taken by the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U22	Mr Grünthal, you are a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On 4 June, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to bring the draft to the Chamber for the third reading. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U23	Thank you, Mr President. I also have two questions regarding the amendments to this 10th item. Firstly, did the Committee on the Environment state why they wanted to change their waitress? Secondly, you mentioned that an additional rapporteur would be the Minister for the Environment on this item. The agenda does not initially provide for an additional presentation on this agenda item. Please explain why this is so!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U24	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure really do allow this. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U25	Thank you, good vice chairman. I now have a procedural question about the fact that, if it has become clear from the information that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not decided to send [the draft] to the hall, although there was some previous, old decision, then legally every new [decision], the indecision should also push up another. Who should I believe more about the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, who does not participate in the work of the committee, or the members of the Constitutional Committee who participate in the work of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U26	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu, of course, draws on the decisions made in the committees and the information we receive from the committee when drawing up the agenda. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to carry out the third reading on 4 June. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U27	Thank you, Mr President. I must admit, your information is absolutely wrong. On 4 June a decision was taken on the second reading, not on the third. As we discussed the amendments here and there were other problems in the Commission, we are in a situation where the lead committee has not currently sent this draft to the Chamber for the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U28	Thank you. The President has information that on 4 June the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also decided on the third reading. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U29	Thank you, Mr President. You answered my question on amendments to item 10 that the Rules of Procedure allow this, but you did not answer the question whether the Committee on the Environment also justified why they wanted to make such changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U30	The President shall pass on the information that comes to us from the committee in order to specify the agenda. We do not need to clarify what was behind one decision or another, but we will say procedurally and, in preparing the drafts, we will be based on what comes from the committees. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U31	Thank you, good vice chairman. I do have a procedural question. If you claim that on 4 June, when the Estonian flag reached 137 years of age, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs adopted a decision that the third reading on 15 June was no such material. I myself am a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and we are still very precise about the dates on which this should take place. It's not like he's gonna swim amortically sometime in June. Do the ambassadors have that kind of information? I'm not familiar with that yet. Can we take a short break with the chair and then make the minutes available to the ambassadors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U32	The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has the right to move agenda items between days and depending on how the working schedule of the large Chamber of the Riigikogu has progressed. We know that we had further sessions in the meantime, so that when the third reading would take place could depend on when the second reading would end. The second reading ended at our additional session, and therefore last week the Riigikogu Board already sent the agenda to the Riigikogu, which included 366 third readings, when the second reading is closed, as the first item on the agenda for today. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the interest of the truth, it should be noted that the Commission has taken the decision to send this Chamber tomorrow. This is the Commission's decision. I can safely say that the Commission has not taken a different decision, so it has been appointed to the Chamber by a Commission decision by tomorrow's date.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U34	Thank you. As I said, the Bureau has the right to plan the agenda according to our work schedule. In theory, there may be a situation where all the committees wish to put all the drafts on a single day. As a result, the Rules of Procedure have given the Bureau the right to plan the agenda, and we will all confirm this together on what agenda we are working on. This is what we did yesterday, we confirmed that we are working on such a work programme this week. Among other things, in this Chamber, we proposed, if you remember, one change and raise the debate on yesterday's item. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U35	Thank you, good manager. To be precise, in point 10, my exorcism was a criminal operation of the Reform Party, and the Minister for the Environment was brought there for a second reading. But my question or suggestion is that if we discuss here whether it is right that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sent him to a third reading room today, then we have a colleague, Toomas Kivimägi. Let him report what he really was.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U36	As I said, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has really proposed that we look at the agenda of 4 June, and indeed, Mr Puustusmaa's reference is correct in order to have a final vote on 16 June, but as I said, the Bureau also looked at the agenda and we endorsed it. The decision of the Grand Hall from yesterday is that 366 is today at third reading as the first item on the agenda. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U37	Thank you, good vice chairman. I feel a very strong deficit of truth at this point in the air and such a very wide fantasy of interpretation of our home and work arrangements. Am I right to understand that the Bureau has the right to go over the commissions' decision? And my procedural question: should we, in future committees, take a decision by [note] 'unless the Board of the Riigikogu decides otherwise'? Because it would be right for ambassadors and voters that the Riigikogu commission decides to send the hall on that day, unless the Riigikogu board decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U38	Thank you. There's no need for that. The rules of procedure shall give the Governing Board the right to do so. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U39	Thank you, Mr President. I am a little confused at the moment with the fact that you said that you had different information, and afterwards you started to rely on the statements of Paul Puustusmaa. It is obvious that there are some problems that have remained unknown to the public and also to members of the Riigikogu. I went specifically to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs yesterday and wanted to receive the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I was told it would be in eight or seven days, I don't remember that number exactly. But the question is also that there is a right to object to this protocol within two days. The reason is whether what is recorded in the protocol is true or true, or whether there are different opinions, because we know that the protocol is not a verbatim, and the most important things are recorded there. At this point in time, however, we are still in a position to find out what requests the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made in its decisions, when [the draft] will eventually be sent to the Chamber for reading and when these [decisions] have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U40	The large Chamber of Riigikogu approved the agenda yesterday. Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Could you please explain these considerations of the Riigikogu's board of directors why he decided to move this first item in contrast to the Commission's wish to raise it to this day? Were there differences of opinion on the matter in the Bureau? What were the different positions in the Bureau, and what were the reasons for the final decision in the Bureau?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U42	Thank you. We, of course, relied on the materials from the committees to work on the work programme and on the fact that our usual rhythm is that first the third readings, then the other readings, then the first readings. The Bureau approved the draft agenda by consensus on Thursday. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U43	Thank you. As you said just a moment ago, the grand hall of the Riigikogu approved the agenda of this week yesterday. We all have this agenda ahead of us. When I look at item 10, Peeter Ernits, member of the Committee on the Environment, is designated as rapporteur, but now we hear that the rapporteur is Alender and another rapporteur, Mr Mölder, has emerged. The agenda is confirmed, it can only be changed if all the political groups agree, but now it turns out that no one has asked the large hall for consent to such a change. Surely the EKRE Group cannot agree with this amendment to the agenda, which is as if dropped from the sky to our necks. How do you solve this dilemma?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U44	Thank you. Just in case, I asked when the Committee on the Environment made that decision. The Committee on the Environment made a decision yesterday, but it turns out that this request for clarification on the agenda is neither an improvement nor anything else, but that the clarification, as a result of the Commission's request, did not arrive in this large hall yesterday at the time when the agenda was approved, otherwise it would have been corrected before the agenda was adopted yesterday. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U45	Good manager! I'll come back to that 366. I proposed before it was... (Phone ringing) Yes, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your silence. After all, we have here, I hope he is alive, Mr. Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Welcome! Maybe you can take the floor and tell me how it really was.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U46	Mr. Ernits, I answered you. I have the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from 4 June and here is the proposal for a third reading when the second reading is completed, on 16 June. As I said, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu made a clarification here by consensus already last Thursday. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U47	Thank you, good Chairman! I hope that this is now a procedural question, because all things relating to our government should be known to the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu, in case there are maneuvers. In the interests of the truth, I ask whether, as you know, Tõnis Mölder has resigned and returned to the Riigikogu, he is a waitress of the Committee on the Environment. What kind of information or just a little prematurely has he put his resignation on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U48	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure allow the Minister to come to the remote control at second reading. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U49	Thank you very much. I have an idea. Perhaps, at the moment, it would be wise for us to vote on this agenda, as confusion and changes have arisen here, and I understand that our ladies and gentlemen are not happy with it. For this to be right, we could vote again on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U50	Thank you. The agenda was adopted yesterday. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U51	Thank you. I want to make a small reply on the procedure on item 10. It is not that the rapporteur's change is a clarification. This logic also means that the elimination of a human being is not an elimination of a human being, but it is some kind of elimination of a human being that we do not have that person anymore. It cannot be done arbitrarily that even the rapporteur appointed by the Commission does not know that he has been replaced. Well, you can't do that, it's a perfectly obvious violation of the rules of procedure and home. That's one. Secondly, if you claim that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to send this so-called ABIS draft to the third reading today, please let us print out or send us on the screen, or, no matter how, this specific protocol decision, that it was made yesterday or the day before or whenever in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and it was fixed in exactly that way: we will send the Chamber for the third reading on this date and on that date and its draft law. You don't have to show it. I'll take the poison so you don't have to show it. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the protocol can also be challenged for two days, and we will certainly challenge it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U52	Thank you. The President has never argued that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed a third reading today. As I have said many times, the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was a third vote on 16 June. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu, looking at all the proposals on the agenda received by the Riigikogu's Management Board, decided by consensus last Thursday that 366 third readings will be held on Tuesday as the first item on the agenda if the second reading is closed. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Peeter Ernits's request is entirely appropriate, as colleagues in his group share quite a lot of misleading information. I therefore consider it important to note that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft in a very thorough manner 366, by organising even three additional meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on both 3 and 4 June and 4 June, the following decision was taken. I will read it word for word: 'When the second reading of the draft is completed, I propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 16.06.2021. "There were 5 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 2 against, with 0 abstentions. As far as the protocols are concerned, all the protocols have been signed, they have been published on the draft bill of 366, so everything is there, everything is legitimate and it is absolutely appropriate to deal with this draft today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U54	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U55	In that case, if Toomas Kivimägi explains it in this way, I cannot understand why the first item on the Sunday agenda is the processing of the draft law on identity documents by the 13th date. There are more similar anomalies here, let's say, on the agendas of last week. It cannot be that these dates are shifting smoothly when the Commission has taken any such decision. However, I think the important question is that where do you take the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made some kind of decision that they have finished reading it in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U56	I'm sorry! I didn't understand the question. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has provided information on when we will conduct [third reading]. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not have to do anything between second and third readings. Between second and third readings, the Commission has the task of preparing a third reading text. It has been prepared, as far as I know, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also made a decision yesterday. The large Chamber of Riigikogu decided yesterday, by voting on the agenda, that we will discuss this draft at third reading as the first item today. That is what we will try to discuss when we get to the agenda. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U57	Thank you, Mr President. On the basis of the proposal to distrust the Prime Minister at the beginning of today's sitting, I would like to know whether you have any information on when the Prime Minister could come before the Riigikogu to defend his proposal to distrust.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U58	Thank you for that question. Not at the moment. I signed a paper a few moments ago and sent it to your request to Stenbock's house. I'm waiting for an answer. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U59	Thank you, Mr President. I asked you which document shows that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has concluded its debate at all. There is no such decision. I would like to know how you have received such information that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has concluded the debate on this point at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U60	Mr. Grünthal! The examination of the Rules of Procedure also facilitates the understanding of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure tell us simply and clearly: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, like all other committees, must take procedural decisions on when the second reading will take place, when the third reading will take place. These decisions have been taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Between second and third readings, it is possible for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, like the other committees, to review the second reading material, to make linguistic corrections where necessary and to send the text to the Chamber. It's all been done. Mr. Grünthal, please, another question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U61	Thank you. I'm gonna leave it alone for a second, but I'm gonna go on with something like this. The question concerns the problem that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia sent protests about violations in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The Board of the Riigikogu took such a decision that it returned it to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Perhaps there has been a situation where the person who is, say, committed an act of some sort, begins to judge the act itself. By the way, absolutely all members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt that such a thing could not be tolerated. As the protest has been left out on the Board of the Riigikogu, the Board of the Riigikogu should actually resolve this issue with its own decision. You referred to the fact that I do not know the Rules of Procedure Act, but I also suggest that you do so because it is absolutely the competence of the Riigikogu's board to resolve the protest that has been submitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U62	The Board of the Riigikogu was governed by the Rules of Procedure Act. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U63	Good manager! For a change, we could talk or ask for something else. I protested to the Riigikogu Board when you drove me away from the Riigikogu Speaker's Board, did not give me three minutes. I ask: has the Board of the Riigikogu discussed my protest and [if not, then] when will it discuss it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U64	Thank you. I'll answer in two parts. First of all, in chairing the sitting, I was guided by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, where the President has been granted these rights. Secondly, it has been agreed that the Riigikogu Board will discuss this point today. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U65	Thank you. The issue is yet another violation of procedures, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs started to amend the draft in substance between second and third readings, not only grammatical and linguistic changes, but also substantive, which is, let us say, fundamentally unacceptable between second and third readings. These are not so-called technical changes; they are not, let's say, grammatical changes; they are substantive changes. That is why we also drew attention to this, and a few were taken out in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but some were still in. During the second and third readings, no further improvements can be made. Therefore, this case has not yet been dealt with. Here is also a clue why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not take any procedural decisions to send this [draft] to the Chamber for reading. We missed this, Mr President of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U66	Thank you. I spoke with the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and was assured that the corrections that have been made are of a linguistic nature only. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U67	Good manager! Is the Bureau aware that substantive improvements were made to the [draft] before the second and third readings, i.e. before the third readings? Which items of home and operating procedures allow this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U68	Thank you. As I answered the previous question: I had no substantive amendments to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, namely the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and [I was aware] that there had been no substantive amendments. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U69	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We heard from the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs adopted a decision to send a draft to 366 large halls for third reading by 16 June. It's June 15th. You're appealing to the fact that yesterday's agenda was approved. I would point out that the Bureau will be able to change the agenda once it has agreed this amendment with the lead committee. As far as I have received information from our representatives in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this coordination has not been done. Thus, the approval of the agenda by the large Chamber is essentially illegal because the amendment has not been coordinated with the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U70	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure shall allow the Bureau to bring a large room on the agenda so that it can be dealt with. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U71	Thank you, Mr President. I will listen to your answers to the information that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has finished its work, and your only answers have been: I have been in contact with the chairman of the committee, Mr Kivimägi. But I'm saying it was different. Why can't we find, say, a legal solution here? Let's do the protocols, see what happened at that meeting last night. That would give us an answer. Because in this case, it does not make sense that when the moment of dispute has arisen, you rely only on the information of one of your party partners, which may not be absolutely right. We need a protocol to resolve this legal issue here, and we cannot go any further from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U72	Thank you. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed a third reading when the second reading is closed. That's what we're trying to do today when we get there. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U73	Good manager! In the previous composition, I was a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a long time and I remember how these minutes were sometimes quite creative, to say the least, depending on who was the chairman of the committee. We discussed it back then. My position and that of Jüri Adams was that they should contain as precise an overview as possible, until then that these tapes should be preserved, but with this view we were outnumbered. But I'm coming back to the proposal I made earlier. Here sits a good colleague, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs Toomas Kivimägi continues to be among us. When you said you'd been in contact with the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we and I haven't talked about it. Now let Thomas tell all of us how this thing really was for protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U74	Thank you. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U75	Thank you, Mr President. You did not answer a number of my questions earlier, and I think that this is a bad tone, because the Riigikogu as a constitutional institution and its functioning also require that there should be a continuous, strong and transparent communication between the Riigikogu's plenary and the Riigikogu's management board. That's why I'm asking again. All the decisions made by the Riigikogu Board, which we are currently discussing here in the form of procedural questions, and which obviously and visibly create furore in this Chamber, are there consensus in the Riigikogu Board when discussing these questions and making these decisions? What arguments did the various members of the Riigikogu have? What were the considerations leading to the final decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U76	Thank you. I replied to you that the Riigikogu adopted the draft agenda by consensus. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I consider it important to inform you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not completed its work. This committee will continue to work and deal with the drafts. He has, however, completed the process of handling the Bill 366 in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As regards the decisions taken, yesterday the Committee on Constitutional Affairs approved the final text for the third reading. And indeed, there were only linguistic clarifications made. However, while colleagues from the EKRE Group as members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made a few comments there, which they considered were substantive changes, I took these comments into account and took them out. In my opinion, they were linguistic, but I expressed my willingness to compromise, and I did not think that such a compromise would be abused in this way as it is today in this Chamber. Once again, Mr President, all decisions and actions relating to the processing of this draft are in full compliance with the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has fully agreed that this draft will be dealt with today, 15 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U78	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U79	Thank you, Mr President. It seems to me that we have achieved another very new and interesting level, where we talk about what happened in the Commission about oral information, we ask in the Chamber, Toomas Kivimägi says one thing, said it and confirms it. I don't know who it was that said, "Help me out in heaven." As far as I am aware, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act says that what happened at the committee meeting is reflected in the protocol, and now we would like to see what was there. This is not the level of the Riigikogu where we are only talking about oral information. We also have oral information, but it doesn't matter. It is important which decisions and the results of the vote are reflected in the minutes. That's what we need, but we don't have that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U80	Mr. Grünthal! On 21 April 2020, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, headed by Henn Põljaasa, discussed the issue that you are currently raising. The Riigikogu Board composed of Henn Põlluaas, Helir-Valdor Seeder and Siim Kallas took a decision. The minutes of the Commission sitting are not the document on the agenda of the plenary session, so it is not necessary to make it conditional on the publication of the minutes of the committee sitting in plenary. Mr. Pier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U81	Thank you. At the beginning of each working week, according to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Riigikogu approves the agenda of this week. This agenda will be printed out, it will be on the table for all our honourable colleagues, and that is what we will be doing this week's work on. It is now a strange situation that, when the person of my good benchmate, Peeter Ernits, was removed from the position of waitress on item 10, the story has happened that this agenda printed out to us is misleading, it does not correspond to reality. We have had this before, too, that the agenda that was printed and given to the ambassadors does not correspond to reality. Then it has been done in such a way that a break has been taken and all members of the Riigikogu have been printed out new agendas that correspond to reality. So I have a proposal for you, Mr President-in-Office, that you take a break, long enough for our good office staff to get a new agenda that fits the reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U82	Thank you, good former Chairman of the Riigikogu! Certainly also during your term as chairman, there were some clarifications on the agenda where the point changed for the waitress. In this sense, this is not in Riigikogu practice [nothing new]. I've been in this house since 2007, too, and it's a normal practice for a waitress to change. So here I see no problem. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U83	Thank you very much, Mr President. I rely very much on your own words in my question and, in the interests of the protocol, I want to know whether we really do have a procedure, as you said, that the Riigikogu's management has the right to draw up the agenda so that it can be dealt with. We also know that the Rules of Procedure provide for committees to make their own decisions on when a matter takes place. Are we entitled to conclude that the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has the right to amend the decision of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U84	The Management Board of the Riigikogu prepares the draft agenda which will be sent to the members of the Riigikogu, and the large Chamber of the Riigikogu approves this draft agenda by decision at the Monday session. That's what we've been doing, and we've been doing it this week. Peter Ernits, please! Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U85	Yeah, thanks! I would still like to be clarified in clear Estonian. Mr Kivimägi said that he was linguistic, but there was something substantive. I think we would all like to know where these nuances are, what was linguistic in the committee that we are discussing so much and what was substantive. My modest suggestion is that Mr Kivimägi speak in a clear Estonian language, which was spoken about, which can be considered as one side linguistic and the other half substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U86	Mr. Ernits, I'm sure you can discuss this with Mr. Stone Mountain. We are based in this large hall and all members of the Riigikogu must follow the text made available to us in this Chamber. This text is prepared for our third reading. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U87	Thank you, Mr President. We're still in an interesting situation. We're talking about some oral information we've received from Mr. Kivimäe. But the question is, how do you know that this committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, had any quorum at all. Because § 37 (1) says that the Riigikogu commission has a quorum if at least one third of the committee's membership is present. And it is also necessary to know the outcome of the vote to take the Commission's decisions. I say that we do not have the information that the Commission was able to work at all, but without the Commission's discussion, it is not possible to do a third reading either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U88	Mr Grünthal, you attended this committee meeting yesterday. If you had any doubts that this committee would not be able to work, you have had to raise this issue in the Commission yesterday. As far as I know, there is no issue raised in the Commission that the Commission was unable to work yesterday. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U89	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a feeling that we have become a bad practice at the level of the Riigikogu's board of directors to be very strongly arbitrary. I have now learned from your explanations that if the Commission makes a decision, this project will go to the Riigikogu's board, regardless of the committee's decision, it will be put to the vote in the large hall, and the large hall may then decide differently. Now, this is a situation where the large hall changes the Commission's decision. Okay. But I've noticed that there are flags on the way through our country's showroom, the White Room. I remember very clearly how the Riigikogu hall decided on the existence of flags, that there are the flags of the Republic of Estonia, and as far as I can remember, the great hall of the Riigikogu has not decided otherwise. Can you tell me how such a decision was made?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U90	This is not a procedural question. Please, Reuben Kaalep!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Paragraph 13 (2) (7) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu states that the Management Board of the Riigikogu prepares the agenda for the working week of the Riigikogu and, in cases arising from this Act, places questions on the agenda on its own initiative, authorises the visitors of the Riigikogu to submit political statements and determine their time. Would you please explain how the activities of the Riigikogu's board, which you are currently defending from that panel, are in line with this point of law, and also, could you explain and describe what these discussions were on the Riigikogu's board and whether there were differences of opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U92	Thank you. I did not understand which item you wanted to specify, but once again I will tell you for the third time, the Riigikogu Board decided last Thursday to send the draft agenda to this Chamber in consensus for this week. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U93	Thank you very much, Mr President. You made a comment when I said whether the Commission had a quorum and what the outcome of the vote was. You said you were there. But it's not about my involvement or my non-participation. The question is that our Rules of Procedure also lay down the closed nature and the public of the Commission's meetings. Paragraph 36 (3): The Commission may declare the sitting public if more than half of the Commission's membership votes in favour. The same applies to the declaration of retention. It's not about me. It is a question of other members of the Riigikogu who want to know, for example Mr Ernits, I do not know who else is here. There are certainly a number of people in this Chamber who do not know whether the Commission had a quorum or what the outcome of the vote was. I'd love to know that. They want to know, too, not only do I want to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U94	The Board of the Riigikogu has no information to suggest that there was a problem with the quorum in the committee. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U95	Good manager! It is a beautiful summer day, we are sober, I am, Jürgen, and we are discussing here for a long time what happened or did not happen in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In this situation, I think we could still bring more light to the room. We have a good colleague here, Toomas Kivimägi. On the one hand, we have, I too have read these second and third reading texts. But the protocol is not yet public, it is not possible to protest, and now we want to adopt it here, like many other drafts. Why does Mr President not allow Mr Kivimägi here to speak in the clear Estonian language that was actually there? What were these things, I'm going to repeat what one side understands in the same direction and the other side? Whether it was linguistic improvements, the other side says that you were still, as Kivimägi said, substantive, but were abused. What is that? I can't be on every committee. So it's clear that we don't have to go around here as much as we say in the country language. But let's talk content, let's take this opportunity. I repeat, it's a beautiful day, and we're sober.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U96	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U97	Thank you, Mr President. In answering my last question, you said very clearly: the Bureau has no information on the fact that something has been done wrong in the Commission. This means that, for the Bureau, a reliable source of information is only a reliable source of information as head of the Constitutional Commission of Toomas Kivimägi, an ambassador to the Reform Party, and all other sources of information are unreliable sources for the Bureau. Okay, let's cancel the so-called distinction. But the question is that the right-hand corner of the hall is constantly receiving information about the fact that what was done in the committee was not the most accurate one. Explain why you don't trust, say, the information of four or five ambassadors that there was something wrong, but you only rely on the information of Toomas Kivimäe as a single person. You haven't referred to anyone else to get anything else from anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U98	Mr Grünthal, it is malicious on your part if you begin to interpret the Commission's work in this way, in which you yourself participate. The Commission's materials come here, not through politicians, but through the administration. The official's gonna send it out. The authorities shall base their decisions on decisions taken by the Commission. The committee had a quorum yesterday, as far as I know. I don't see any reason why we should keep this debate going. Mr Grünthal, you yourself were there in the committee, why didn't you say immediately that there was a problem with the quorum of the Commission or something else. I also told you in response before: I knew there was no problem with the quorum yesterday. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U99	Thank you, good Chairman! In my opinion, this is procedural and [it is important] that this matter be turned down for the sake of the protocol. Question: If a draft is to be dealt with in the committee, do we have to say at the beginning that we will deal with this draft if the Board of the Riigikogu allows it, and will it be necessary to ask for permission from the management board of the Riigikogu in addition, or in the decision-making process, to send it to the hall on this and that date, unless the Management Board of the Riigikogu thinks otherwise? Which should be the more procedurally correct approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U100	Thank you. The committees must follow the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu. Mr. Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U101	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the representatives of the EKRE Group for this fine debate. Really, such a live comedy. I would love to hear it, but I would ask the representatives of the EKRE to respect those who work with us, these are committee staffs. I, here for 20 years, have made it clear to myself that the Riigikogu works just as well as qualified staff is around. It's impossible to imagine our work without it. If there are any complaints here that are based not on a complaint against the chairman of the committee, not on colleagues sitting in this Chamber, but actually on the work of officials, then really, it is no longer funny. Without these people, we're like no hands. So please limit yourself to our humble personalities, do not touch on the work of the committees on what officials are doing. I understand that you are restricting our freedom of expression, etc., etc. Hey, there's got to be a little bit of a mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U102	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U103	Good manager! I have many colleagues in this Chamber to whom I look with respect. I have now heard from the chairman of the Estonian Language Problem Committee, who has been in the Riigikogu since the beginning of time, but it is important that he is the chairman of the Estonian Language Problem Committee, that he used the words "Commission staff" at least twice. My question is, Mr President: is it acceptable to use the foreign word repeatedly to describe the officials of the committees in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and is it acceptable to hear such statements from the Chairman of the Committee on Problems in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U104	This is not a procedural question. Do we have any more procedural questions, or do we just want to have a debate? If there is a desire to hold a debate, it can also be held outside this hall. We would like to work on the substantive work of the Riigikogu in this Chamber. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U105	Thank you, Mr President. I don't think I'm having a debate, I want to know about the circumstances of the hearing. You said that my statements were malicious, which concerned the information of Toomas Kivimäe and the EKRE ambassadors. I don't think that's malicious. But you also said that you have, that the board has information, and that information has been sent. I went to see if these protocols and things were ready, said they weren't ready yet, they took time. Now I would like to know why you have this information about what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs do not have that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U106	Thank you. We were talking about a quorum and whether the Commission had a quorum. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U107	Thank you, good vice chairman. I think it's procedural. When I asked you a week ago if it was reasonable for the Bureau to put in one of the items with 12 second readings, today we will see, we have six second readings. This means that each envoy can give five minutes of speech if [time] is added, [more]. Someone could have said something if there were two major changes to today's agenda, didn't they, that one item on the agenda would be brought forward by the day and the other one would have a big exchange? We now have two hours until the end of today's sitting. Is that reasonable? How did you talk last time? You were optimistic and said that there had been longer agendas for the sitting. Today I am not asking if you are as optimistic as you are and saying that yes, we have had longer [days] but how wise it was to put six other readings here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U108	Thank you. Of course, every member of the Riigikogu is dependent on how we do this work programme here or how we implement the work programme, and it turns out that you see, for an hour now we have been dealing with something that we could have handled the drafts instead. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U109	Thank you, good Hanno! A moment ago, our good colleague, Stalnukhin, said that there is a restriction of freedom of expression being dealt with here. I did not understand well whether he was referring to you, I have not understood that you are restricting freedom of expression. However, he may have referred to bill 366, as restricting freedom of expression. Maybe then we should come to a decision in this sense to take this point out, because it restricts freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U110	Thank you. It's not procedural. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U111	Good manager! I clearly have a procedure and a repeat, I repeat again in Estonian. The world is not so black and white that for the opposition, all coalition ambassadors are Satan and vice versa. There are also credible colleagues, even if they are not in the same coalition. And Toomas Kivimägi is, excuse me, reliable to me, at least so far has been. Why, Mr President, do you not give this trustworthy person a chance to tell me how it really was? Well, what are we gonna do about the hot porridge? I repeat: on the one hand, Thomas said that he was as linguistic, but then there was also the substance of what Mr Grünthal or anyone else there was cleverly trying to put forward in substance. What was the reality there? I urge you to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Kivimäe, who is currently the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, until now, to me, to be credible. Let him tell you what it was like.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U112	Thank you. This will be an opportunity at third reading during the negotiations. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U113	Thank you, Mr President. We have now been an hour since the beginning of the sitting, and as Jüri Ratas, President of the honourable Riigikogu, tends to say, time flies at a terrible rate. I ask: has there already been any feedback from the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic, when will they come to respond to the motion of mistrust made at the beginning of this sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U114	No, it's not. Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Since the questions you are asked in the hall are asked 16 times, who are essentially emotional and show a attitude towards this hall and are, in fact, all aimed at shutting down, as the Riigikogu says, the work of the Riigikogu, I have a proposition for you as a manager: stop! There are three, four or five people who are terrorizing the hall. I'll say the word. Stop listening to questions and be polite!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U116	Thank you, Mrs. Eenmaa! The Rules of Procedure shall provide for the possibility of really asking questions about the procedure for conducting a hearing. A more precise explanation of what this means has been sent to all political groups and all members of the Riigikogu by our legal people. The way each member of the Riigikogu interprets it is for his own good or, unfortunately, for his own sake. As the head of the Riigikogu, it is very difficult for me to see in someone's head whether it is holding up the opportunity provided in the Rules of Procedure to ask about the procedure for conducting the sitting or whether it wishes to make any political statement. Therefore, I call on all members of the Riigikogu to observe the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu, as well as the instructions that our good assistants have sent here to the Riigikogu members concerning matters relating to the procedure for conducting the sitting, namely § 74 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. Mr. Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U117	Thank you, good vice chairman. My procedural question concerns item 10 where, I understand, the competence of the Committee on the Environment actually disappeared in connection with the exchange of a rapporteur and it was necessary to bring the Minister here. Now, in the knowledge that there may be a mistrust going on today, is it statesmanly to run the minister and change his schedule quickly in order to be a waitress, because the Commission did not find anyone better to replace Peeter Ernitsa? I wouldn't be talking about it, but I'm still talking about the Commission's competence and running the minister here to report a second reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U118	Thank you. The Commission's report is still there, and, as I said, the Commission also asked the Minister to come here. In this sense, both are: there is a presentation by the Commission and there is a minister. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U119	Thank you, Mr President. I need to be very brief, and I will talk processically about what happened. EKRE protested to the Board of the Riigikogu; the Board of the Riigikogu sent it back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this decision of the Riigikogu's Executive Board was taken as a separate item for discussion. Okay. It was then that the committee unanimously found that the Board of the Riigikogu had failed to fulfil its tasks and sent it back to the Board of the Riigikogu, in substantive terms and also in the sense of the explanatory memorandum. The question is how can we proceed with this matter once the management board of the Riigikogu has left its area of responsibility. That was also the reason why this bill was not sent here for the third reading. These are the reasons, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U120	The Board of the Riigikogu has examined this protest, sent it back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided on it yesterday. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U121	Good manager! How Mart Helme said about the president was a woman who was emotionally overwrought. Now that I hear my colleague Ivi Eenmaa, who basically referred to me and some of my colleagues as a terrorist, I support Ivi. We have the word free in this Chamber and maybe I wouldn't say that a woman who's emotionally overwrought would probably be correct to say 'an emotionally overwrought-in person', but yes, I support Ivi Eenmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U122	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U123	Mr. President! We're in a pretty awkward stalemate right now. If the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have not been declared secret, is there some rational reason why not Mr Grünthal to show the documents in the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs so that he and the rest of us in this Chamber can answer these questions and we can proceed with this matter calmly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U124	Thank you. Mr Grüntha was present in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Three high-speed chords. As regards the quorum of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs yesterday, the smallest number of members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who participated were seven. There are nine members in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but since not all members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs participated in the whole session, the minimum number was seven. So the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had a quorum. Secondly, no one, none of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs contested any decision in procedural terms; no protests were raised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And thirdly, what we are discussing today: the decision to approve draft 366 third reading text. Ladies and gentlemen, note: 5 in favour, 0 against, 2 abstentions. I fully understand that no one opposed, because indeed I took into account the two comments made by my EKRE colleagues. In my opinion, these changes were linguistic, but since they still found that this might not be linguistic, we took them out. It is therefore to be expected that no one voted against this third-reading text either. This is not the norm at all because, as a general rule, the text of the third reading does not have to be voted on by the Commission, and there is also a protocol decision by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. At the time, Mr Jaak Madison was the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who said that there was no need, it would be sufficient for the Chair to coordinate the text of this third reading. We did better, we did more, we asked the whole Commission. I repeat: for 5, against 0, with 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U126	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U127	Thank you, good vice chairman. Looks like I might have found a way out of this deadlock. I dare say that it will take 15 minutes to print the new agendas and remove this text from the first item "if the second item is closed" and add 'as decided by the Bureau'. And the 10th item on the agenda would not be that the rapporteur is Peter Ernits, but is the one who will replace him, and then about so that he will be accompanied or supplemented or prepared by the Minister for the Environment. Then you can tell the ambassadors, "The ambassadors, what are we talking about? That's what it says. " The deadlock would have gone. You take 15 minutes of the chairman's break, print a new agenda, new points, and we'll follow it. Right now, it just raises questions. Is my idea agile?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U128	Thank you. We adopted the agenda yesterday, and this morning I specified the agenda for the implementation of the sitting. Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U129	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I am still interested in what happened to you on the Board of the Riigikogu during this debate. After all, this is quite precisely regulated by Article 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which states: "The board of directors of the Riigikogu may decide only after hearing the opinion of all its members. The decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu shall be taken by consensus of the members present. If consensus is not reached, the member of the Riigikogu's board may put the matter to a vote outside the agenda at the Riigikogu meeting. " On this basis, I ask: was there a hearing of the opinion of all the members of the Riigikogu Board? What were these different opinions and what was the debate during which consensus was reached? Let me remind you that this issue, on which I am asking in particular, is all that concerns the handling of draft 366 this week, and in particular the day on which it is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U130	Thank you. It was not a procedural question, I stress. But for the fourth time, when I come to the nature of your question, the draft agenda was adopted by consensus and all the members of the Bureau gave their opinion. Everyone agreed that we are working on this agenda this week. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U131	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. I am fully aware that Mr Grüntha was present at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The question is not whether Mr Grüntha was present or not. It is a matter of the Commission's protocol. Is there any provision in our working arrangements that says that Mr Grünthal cannot read the Commission's protocol? Then we would solve all these questions, and we should not continue this discussion for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U132	Thank you. Of course, every member of the Riigikogu has the right to access the protocol. But this protocol, as I have already referred to in the decision made by Henn Põlluaasa, Helir-Valdor Seeder and Siim Kallas on 21 April last year, cannot be made dependent on the debate in the big hall. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U133	Good manager! Thank you for finally speaking to Toomas Kivimägi. You got it. Respect for that. The hall is emotionally overheated, I realize it's not procedural, but the same two things that Thomas was talking about? Since our protocol, or this law on home and working procedures, does not allow substantive questions to be asked before a decisive vote in the current situation, I think, given the exceptional situation that has arisen in recent days, Thomas could still say to the wider society what the things he referred to were. I understand it's not procedural, but it's not exactly normal at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U134	Thank you. We'll all shape this situation together. The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu are quite specific from the surface of the discussions in the Chamber and also from the [position] how we ask procedural questions. Mr. Kivimägi is there. You can ask him if there's anything else wrong with him. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We are here, too, discussing such matters completely without justification as to whether a proper agenda could be issued. Good practice could be introduced here, especially when there has been an hour today, officials are full of houses, five minutes of repairs, five minutes of printing, and everyone who wants to get a proper agenda. It's just good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U136	Thank you. We have a proper agenda, there was only one clarification, as I said. This clarification concerned the 10th item on the agenda for rapporteurs, nothing more. That's what I read to you before we started implementing the hearing. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U137	Thank you very much. I understand that the Reform Party government is determined to push this bill through at all costs. But, you know, a lot of people across Estonia are looking at this session, it has become a very important thing for the people of Estonia. Even if you push it through now, it doesn't mean that this law will come into force. The Chancellor of Justice may make an assessment, the President may not announce it, this matter may land at the Supreme Court, etc. Is it so important to your reputation that you want to push it through? As far as I know, the EKRE support rate has already risen to 25, i.e. it has crushed the glass ceiling that Kaja Kallas has proposed. It would be more reasonable and also reasonable for you to have a future...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U138	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U139	... more useful if we took time off and you discussed this matter again on the board in your own interest and in the interests of all of us, the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U140	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U141	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. We already have a stalemate in the process of several procedural questions, where you do not understand the content and the meaning of our questions, we are not satisfied with the answers you are giving. In order to resolve this situation, is it not best to announce a half-hour break, to convene the Board of the Riigikogu and to discuss all these matters again with one another, so that the picture is clearer and that both the Board of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu plenary will be satisfied with all these issues and points of discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U142	Thank you. This did not concern the procedure for conducting the sitting. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I didn't understand that logic right now. Can't you ask a member of the Riigikogu to take a break to discuss some sort of thing? At the moment, it seems that making such a proposal would be unacceptable and would not be procedural at all. It's just a procedural question. Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U144	Thank you. It is possible to ask about the procedure for conducting the sitting in accordance with the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U145	We will go to today's first item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on identity documents initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 366. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U146	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, What happened here for an hour now is all about the same draft, and what has been here last week and, in fact, not only in the big Chamber, but also in the Commission, are these Commission disputes reflected in the current debate in the big Chamber. Our position on the ABIS draft, or draft 366, has been quite clear and quite unambiguous since the beginning that such a super-data base, a tool for building a comprehensive monitoring society, the construction of a pan-optic state, where the state power sees the private life of all citizens, like the great eye in the Lord of the Rings, does not lead to a good place, but leads to a totalitarian society. I am not going to explain here how foolish the argument is that our own ministers were at the initiation of this draft. It wasn't, the initiation of this bill started before the previous government, during the government that preceded our government. Not to mention that this bill was sold to our own ministers in the ministry with a lie. I would like to address separately those people who, somehow, are very lightly saying that I have nothing to fear, because I am not a criminal. That's the tip of naivety! Because what characterizes a totalitarian society? The most pervasive feature of totalitarian society is that it is moody. He's moody. Consider for a moment how quickly the demands and standards of different sexual minorities have changed. Or let's think about it once, I'll give you a simple example of how many Hollywood paduliber-left stars have been rejected from running Oscar's evening because he expressed ten years ago superprogressive views on homomarriage, which today, in 2020 and 2021, has been declared so backward that these people must be put to shame. You go to bed tonight and you think you're liberal, progressive and open, then you wake up in the morning and find out that no, too little, you're too behind. Someone's figured it out somewhere, I don't know, a new identity or a new one that you don't know, and you're on the wrong side of history, you're an instigator, you have to be punished, you have to be eliminated in society. Where this ideological dictatorship is marching, we should all understand, especially in Estonia, where we still have a vivid memory of the totalitarian moodiness that was before Estonia regained independence: just didn't like the face and was taken away. You said something wrong, you told the wrong political anecdote, you made some kind of ambiguity joke, and it was over, the career was over, and maybe life was over. But at the time, the KGB couldn't dream of the kind of surveillance we already have available to everyone. And now they want to increase it. It is quite wrong to claim that our party has taken up a quarrel in an empty place and is simply jogging. No, it's not. We have repeatedly proposed solutions during the procedure for this draft, which could help to make this draft a minimum of security in the interests of civil liberties and the protection of the privacy of the individual. After all, we voted on these amendments here, all weekend we voted on them. None of them went through, and previously these amendments had been arbitrarily incorporated and redrafted in the Commission, so those that we voted on here were not exactly what we had tabled. But once again, I'm going over this list of things that should be elementary, should be in the society where we live, where everyone has a smartphone in their pocket, where every corner of the street has a camera, where every gas station has a camera, every store has a camera, where we share our personal data with the state authority everywhere, starting with the maternity hospital and ending with a passport, or going abroad, or with health procedures. Basically, your personal data is your data. It is not the case that the state collects them in a semi-public or semi-secret way, and that is his data. No, it's not. Your print is yours, your DNA is yours, and it cannot be used without your permission and without your knowledge. We've had an argument about whether these ophthalmic or DNA can be used. The problem is that ABIS law is endless, it is a blankeksel, you can collect anything in there later, you don't have to inform anyone, either the government or Parliament. We're opening the way for endless data collection. Secondly, today we do not have a closed list of who can use the data under what conditions the data can be used. We do not have the law to regulate how we leave a trail of data viewing. We have databases today where we have very strictly regulated, who can watch and what can be viewed. For 75 years, some databases leave a log behind. There's nothing like this in this super database, nothing like that. There is no explanation why these data should be collected on military personnel, rescuers, police officers. It's a pure security risk. Pure security risk. We have a lot of databases with very sensitive information. If, for example, Estonia is attacked by foreign power or, say, Russia attacks us and receives these databases, it has ready lists of people who will be the first to put up against the wall. We have no mechanism in the country at all, who, when, what is currently destroying these databases. Just as we destroy it, if a critical situation arises, we blow up the Narva bridge, so we should also have a list of what button push will destroy the databases that will help our enemies to perform the repression and who will be responsible for this button push. Of course, in today's case, these data can sit high somewhere. Where's the data in the cloud? Malaysia, somewhere in the Philippines, Singapore. He's not under our control, he's not physically under our control. So all these big principles are unsolved. On the contrary, these great principles have been resolved so that security authorities, or those power structures that want, can start asking anyone about us any information, no trace of it may be left behind, and what they do with it is not regulated. It's a big brother's super-data base, and it can't be allowed to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U147	Urmas Reinsalu, please! Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U148	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U149	Just three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U150	No, I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U151	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U152	Honourable representative of the people! In this situation, the Fatherland Envoy Group discussed how we will act in the process of dealing with this bill, which requires a majority of the composition and will immediately reach the final vote. There were several very serious weighing angles for us here. The first point of consideration is that we certainly do not essentially share this approach, like the implementation of this technical application in itself, i.e. the introduction of a new technological platform on existing fingerprint collection bases would lead to a police state or create an inherent threat to our fundamental rights and freedoms. The fact is that fingerprints, these biometric data are also collected on different bases today. The reason why the government decided to develop this new base with European money in 2017 was well-founded: just old databases, especially those of the Estonian Forensic Institute, where the fingerprints of the people who committed the offences are technologically outdated. This is indeed a separate question: we all know who has come into contact with it, that these databases have already been developed. This database has been developed, the money has been allocated. The first question for me is how the decision to form a base has been made, and not only has the decision been taken, but it has actually started to develop this base for millions of euros, it should be implemented from the beginning of next year, but the legislator has not given the mandate to build the base, but it has taken place backwards. We tie and chain the horse to the back of the wagon. This certainly does not make sense in principle and has created this great controversy. Now, secondly, biometric data is a very important data type in the area of personal data protection. This has also been clearly acknowledged in its approach by the European Union Data Protection Regulation. The questions and problems that have arisen for us under this law are very substantive and are due to the fact that, unfortunately, we did not have a substantive debate between the two readings, when the controversy and the problems raised by the media arose, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the form we would have liked to have been conducted. This would go to such a mechanical vote on amendments. I can say with full responsibility that we have analysed this bill and the substantive choices made, and these are certainly not the only possible choices regarding data protection and the way data processing is structured. It is certainly possible to consider other solutions that reduce data protection problems. I will only mention here, first of all, the one with whose permission the use of these data takes place. Secondly, the question of why double bases will be maintained for those biometric data currently processed by data controllers. Thirdly, the question of adding new data here is, in reality, still the 'closed principle' in data protection law so far, that the legislator gives a list of data on a closed basis. Similarly, the question has arisen of what will be processed in the investigation of these offences, the data of all the people who have given their fingerprints when issuing the passport. Here I regret to say that the government representatives gave me misleading information, at least for me. I realized that the data people give when applying for a passport, fingerprints, etc., is practically collected today. The right thing is that the Criminal Procedure Act already provides for this possibility ten years ago. However, in fact, this collection of data does not take place. In view of the situation in which the current Criminal Procedure Act provides that for all offences for which a maximum sentence of at least three years has been prescribed, the procedure can begin to compare the fingerprints of all persons who have applied for a passport in good faith by means of a search procedure, this would certainly have required a substantive debate at Parliament level in the case of this law, where, in fact, the procedural authorities are now going to use them for the first time. Unfortunately, there wasn't one. Similarly, there is a very legitimate question as to whether, precisely in the case of these offences, the current authorisation path established in the Criminal Procedure Act is also justified. There is a completely different context compared to what was discussed ten years ago by the legislator when it adopted the Code of Criminal Procedure when there were quite other emphasis on the table. Saturday morning, I proposed a compromise to the House of High People's Representation: the coalition will interrupt the procedure for this draft law, have the opportunity to table new amendments and quickly hold a substantive debate on these issues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs this week. And if the coalition has the fear that thousands of proposals or proceedings will be blocked, then there will also be a gentlemen's agreement that, if this is done, the coalition will have the opportunity to link this bill to a vote of confidence. At the moment, we have lost a very high value: the actual debate on this draft law. This is indeed the situation of a forehead collision: take it or leave it. It is not possible, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Pro Patria Envoy Group, to deal with such matters as the processing and interference of personal data. Therefore, the Pro Patria Envoy Group considered these factors, which in themselves are very compelling arguments, technological possibilities for identifying persons and for combating crime, and considered that these possibilities should, of course, be used, but this must be done in such a way as to eliminate excessive abusive or additional risks for the processing or misuse of such data. Unfortunately, this debate, which has taken place both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the House, has not given us absolute certainty about this. Therefore, in view of these two arguments, and given that this is a bill that needs a majority in Parliament, the Pro Patria Envoy Group does not vote in favour in order to achieve this absolute majority. We will not vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U153	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U154	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U155	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been many speeches during the procedure of this law, but the content of these speeches has not been very much. There is, you can say, foam, talk and scare, on the other hand, I think it is unnecessary to speak well in a specific way, without taking into account the issues that this bill actually contains. When we think about what has been said, there has been a great deal of talk and intimidation about the issues that are already in the law today and which have already been regulated in the past. For example, the processing of biometric data in criminal investigations has already been authorised by the prosecutor since 2012. Or, indeed, the issue of the creation of databases, the composition of databases and the deadlines for storing data, the law says that today the government has the power to do all of this with the statutes of the respective databases. But there is also a great deal of incorrect information on this subject that has been distributed to the public and overheated in vain. In itself, this bill with the aim of creating a secure database is the right one, the right aim, and several government formations with the participation of different political parties have discussed and initiated this issue. The fact that biometric data and biographical data are being allocated is being moved to different databases is, I think, what we should all definitely support. Martin Helme first said that if anyone came and could hack and retrieve the data, all the data would have gone somewhere. But that's why this database is being made so that if anyone in the future happens to get the data from the Estonian state for some inexplicable reason, they won't get all the data. He gets the name, but he doesn't get the print, and vice versa. This is the right target for the social democrats in this sense. In the old European sense, Estonia is actually such a pioneer with its personal data and all [other] data or the subject of the integrity of the person. We would not have such a tax system, we would not have an e-state at all if we were to follow exactly the same strict principles as Germany, for example. Then it just wouldn't be. There wouldn't be an Estonia like that today, there wouldn't be an Estonia that we're proud of. But it is important to know and remember that the fact that we have debated, discussed and made some kind of decision somewhere does not mean that it is a blankeks for all the decisions of the future. No, it's not like that. It's not like that. Any decision we make, or any decision on the use of any database, personal data, [other] data we make, needs a new debate, a new debate. This is the problem area in the debate on this draft. Relatively quickly, the coalition and the opposition climbed into EKRE's trenches, started throwing grenades towards each other without having held the debate that the Estonian state, the people of Estonia, really needs to stand up for the rights of the Estonian people. There hasn't been a debate. It just hasn't been possible to keep it, and it doesn't seem like I want to do it either. As I said, certainly many of the issues raised by the EKRE are not correct. But with regard to the coalition, I do not know whether the coalition ambassadors have actually discussed the issues of this draft in substance and strongly. I think you could have had a debate inside of yourself here and wondered if everything that gets here is what we want. I'm not saying things are wrong here, but I'm saying there hasn't been a debate. Without a debate, such important, considered decisions should not be taken. Should not be done in the Estonian Parliament. It's rushed. Why it's rushed, I don't get it. In fact, nothing would have happened if we had discussed the same draft calmly in the autumn, and really then had a debate about what would happen. As has already been said, these principles, which have been agreed in a certain space, which we had, for example, 10 years ago or 20 years ago or 15 years ago, may now change a little bit, logic may change. Our technological opportunity, by putting together different data, can create new situations for the use of this data. This is the place that really needed a substantive debate. Unfortunately, as I said, this has not been the case and, therefore, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I must say that in today's vote, which will immediately follow these speeches, the Social Democrats cannot support this draft. Not because we are opposed to the creation of this database, not because it is the right way to do it, but because the substantive issues of protecting fundamental human rights and what may happen further [is undisputed]. Also, whether, in such a large database, for example, these same principles, that the government approves the statute, says the formations and all other things, must remain or should the Riigikogu make these decisions in such important matters itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U157	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U158	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For his part, some simple truths and observations. Firstly, biometric data collected and aggregated on the modern IT platform is the norm today. None of the previous speakers have contested this either. Nobody. Estonia is no exception here, both in the Nordic countries and in Western Europe, the collection of such data is ongoing in most countries. Perhaps it would be exaggeration to say that the biometric database has become a new national feature in the 21st century, but I do believe that all those who care about national security, public order, security, rapid detection of crimes admit that without such a database cannot. Secondly, it is a screamingly misleading false claim that the draft will create new legal bases for processing data. No, I don't. ABIS is 99% purely a technological platform. In fact, none of the previous speakers really do, too. In fact, the Ministry of the Interior discussed for a very long time whether an amendment to the law was needed at all. I say it wouldn't have been necessary. However, as is appropriate for the Estonian authorities, in order to mitigate all risks to zero, we are still taking the legislator's support behind it. In fact, it is merely a new technological platform. Why is it urgent? Once again, the previous speaker raised this. Two keywords only here: security and preservation of collected data. Today there are databases containing biometric data 8 + 1, a total of 9. And today's biggest security issue, in my opinion, is that today's databases combine both biometric data - finger and facial image - and biography data, i.e. personal identification number and name. Now, only biometric data go to ABIS, no biography data go there. We create a structure that is highly unlikely that if there is a leak from ABIS, tell us what to do with fingerprints or facial image if you don't know whose they are. This security will increase again thanks to ABIS, because it does not contain biography data. To achieve this, there must be access to two databases. Data storage. I hope I don't betray a big national secret, but the biometric data database collected in criminal proceedings is on the verge of collapse. It's on the verge of collapse! It's a matter of months, maybe weeks, when this database is gone. If we don't have biometric data for criminals, tell me, who will win the most if this database no longer exists? That's what a big brother wins the most. This is what the criminals most benefit from. AFIS, the biometric data of criminals, is the first thing to be moved to ABIS. When there was talk of haste, ladies and gentlemen, the allocation for the creation of ABIS was made in 2017. Four years [Back]! And we're talking about hurrying. The ultimate time, a long time ago, should have done it. What's most strange about the debate is that its biggest opponents today are the ones who gave birth to it. After hearing the first speaker, I would say who signed this birth certificate. The two Ministers of the Interior from the most right-wing bench row have both approved an identical draft. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U159	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U160	For the second time, I thank both gentlemen for supporting this bill when they were in government, because it is in the interests of the Estonian state. This is Estonia's security, it is in the interests of Estonia's security. What is strange is that the position changed with the seat. It's hard to understand. Will our data be shared with other countries? No, I don't. Our data will not be shared with other countries, with the exception of the biometric data of the so-called AFIS, or criminals collected in criminal proceedings. This is the data that is shared with other countries. Neither my data nor any of your colleagues will be shared with other countries. They are in the hands of the Estonian state and under the control of the Estonian state. I want to live in a country where public order and national security are protected. I want to live in a country where it's safe and where criminals don't have a place. That is what ABIS serves. Yes, I want to live in a country where my personal data are not abused or generally used for purposes other than those for which they were collected: identification and verification of personal data. There is only one exception here, if the use of biometric data for other purposes is also allowed, these are serious crimes with the permission of the prosecutor. In my opinion, it is elementary and fully understandable and perfectly understandable that, if serious crimes are involved and the prosecutor's permission for this, it is indeed possible to use the biometric data collected by other means than those originally collected. If there are any doubts as to whether everything is secure enough, whether there are enough logs left behind, if it is possible to correct it, we are always open to it and were also open to this draft procedure. I say frankly, listening to the representative of the EKRE Group at first reading, it was very difficult for me to understand what their fundamental opposition was. Dominated merely the claim that this was a duplication, nothing more. In addition, the rapporteur for the Commission, Mr Korobenik, was also questioned that, just as he has some kind of commercial interest in handling this draft. To refute this, I say that the proposal to be a Commission waitress to Mr Korobenik was one hundred percent my work, so I actually want to thank him for taking on this difficult task. But on the contrary, in this hall, he'd rather be charged with it. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is in the interests of the Estonian state; it is in the interests of our security; it is in the interests of our security. For a safe Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U161	Ladies and gentlemen, only the representatives of the political groups can take the floor on this item. Mr. Laneman, would you like to say a recliner? Please! You still have the opportunity to rejoin.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U162	The charm of democracy is that it can use various instruments and techniques to promote the life of our dear country. Since I was mentioned, it is important to clarify that the mention was misleading. At the time, it was clear that this draft did not have political support and could not go any further with it. However, it would have been technically wrong to take him down because the work had already started in 2017. In principle, these solutions are correct and it is a pity that the appointment of the Ministers of the Interior and the appointment of the EKRE did not mention those substantive contradictions, which we had a great deal to talk about. Perhaps to save time, I would refer to today's Postman and its editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U163	Mr. Stone Mountain, do you have a procedure? There's no rejoinder here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U164	Yes, honorable manager! I did not mention any of my colleagues consciously, although I would have liked to do so, but I did not mention any of them by their names. So I don't think there's any basis for rejoinder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U165	The case with the rejoinder is that even if someone's principles are clearly recognizable. Mr Laneman may have understood that he was treated as a minister or as a minister. Mr. Reinsalu, do you have a procedure? I never heard your name in Mr. Kivimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U166	Thank you. Yeah, I have a procedural question. Mr President, do you not think that when it was said that those who were in different governments were I in these governments? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U167	You've been in many governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U168	I wanted to tell you that, indeed, in these different governments, I have not questioned the fundamental decision to establish this base in any way, even in today's speech, but I did send Mr Laneman, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, with his letter to this draft for coordination, four pages of problems, some of which I mentioned here. If the drafts are coordinated, the problems will be highlighted. It's too bad these real problems drowned somewhere in the swamp here this weekend, that's the problem. Does it seem procedurally to you that it was true that my actions were mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U169	However, it was not procedural. Your actions were not mentioned. Mr. Helme, did you feel touched?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U170	Yeah, I got a line. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the previous interior ministers supported this draft. That's not true. We took it to the government, but the government did not find support for this draft because it was poorly drafted, with a whole range of questionable issues, which has actually been highlighted in the debate here in a very impressive way. It is not true, therefore, that there was no substantive debate. If the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not take part in the substantive debate, that is his problem. The debate was substantial. In the previous government, this bill was caught up and didn't move. It is therefore absolutely not true to incriminating that we ourselves did, and now the position has changed with the seat. It's not true!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U171	I'm closing the negotiations. We will start the final vote at third reading, because such a proposal has been made by the lead committee. Mr. Pier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U173	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U174	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention, please. Thank you! The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 366. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to adopt the draft as a law. I shall put to the vote before you a draft law amending the Law on identity documents initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with it, a draft law amending other laws 366. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U175	With the result of 56, the bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I have an important point of reference for you. In fact, the Government of the Republic has sent a letter to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and pursuant to § 134 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, the Government of the Republic is asking Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to discuss the requirement to express censure at the meeting of the Riigikogu on 16 June as soon as possible. As a result, the President of the Riigikogu has added this request to the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu tomorrow, 16 June, and it will take place as the first item on the agenda. If there is a debate on an item on the agenda today, then it is another item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U176	Let's move on to our agenda today. Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U177	[[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U178	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U179	Ladies and gentlemen. I have such a tiny request that those who are in the hall, be in the hall, and those who really want to talk would be good if you went out because I couldn't talk otherwise. Okay. Thank you very much. Coming now to bill 212, you, dear and dear colleagues, have noticed that there was a lot of jarage in the good sense at the night sittings where we also touched on this bill. Quite a mass, in fact, it is in the mainstream media that night sessions, if they are, or if there are such longer debates, it is as if there were no debate. I would first like to point out, dear friends, that the debate in these sittings has also been very lively for those who have been present here. Because these discussions, even if they slightly deviate from the fundamental issue, have never been apolitical or purely technical, but quite largely tended to the political side. And if, at that time or at that moment, there are no dear colleagues in this Chamber and they do not wish to debate themselves, it is a question of their conscience. Let us think, then, that the problem is not the lack of debate or the failure to want it, but, yes, we simply have a situation where, at times, in difficult moments of time or moments of physical fatigue, some of our fellow Members are reluctant to debate. Now, in the case of 212, I would like to emphasise once again that yes, even in these previous debates, it has been noted that many critical arrows have flown in this direction by the conservatives. But I assure you that the Conservatives, by their very nature, do not see this bill as a problem. Because he's gonna solve something, but he's gonna bring something, and the future's gonna show the most if it's good or bad. What has been the Conservative problem with this bill? It's typical that Conservatives never destroy things that work. We see no reason why we should change things that work and deal with things that do not need to be dealt with. All the more so because our time is too expensive and these administrative costs are too high. This 212 is a very typical draft, precisely because it is disputed, its coming to our hall has come through the Chancellor of Justice, through the court, through the Supreme Court, and it has reached our hall because there has been a potential legal debate that it may cause problems. I stress that this could be the cause. It's never caused any problems, but it can. This also raised the question of why we are going to discuss a potential problem if it can cause problems, but it has not caused problems. All the more so since we all know, or most of us at least know, that the KOKS audit has come very far, it has already been done for a very long time, and the KOKS review is already being brought to this hall as a ready-made law, where all these reproaches, which have been included in this bill 212, have already been brought. So, we're just doing an empty breeze. That's one thing. The second thing that concerns the same problem and why it bothers us is that we still have different rights to resolve, as I said, on the one hand, through a potential problem and through a slice. Draft 212 solved one problem, only quite recently the same composition was solved by the Supreme Court on the basis of the judgment of the Supreme Court, that was the Supreme Court's decision 5-19-45, another similar problem. We are talking about Article 18 (1) (6) of the Local Government Organisation Act, which we have already solved, that is precisely on the basis of the same law. Still, on the basis of slices, we're going through this whole process, we're gonna stretch, we're gonna stretch, and finally we're gonna come up with a solution that will be solved in the next review, as I said, of the KOKS anyway. The third thing that has bothered us all the time is that we are the legislators, we have to create the law, but we actually have the law. We will be put in a coercive situation, where we will have to play the role of law-maker only in a situation where the law is written by the court. Once again, we're at this potential solution. Somewhere somebody says it might be a problem, the court will come up with some kind of conclusion. In this regard, I also emphasised this in this remote control earlier that when the Supreme Court, in its resolution of 5-19-45, prescribed the possibility that we should look at this matter, that it was a constitutional over-incision, then all the institutions were asked in advance, the Riigikogu itself, the Constitutional Committee, was asked the Ministry, the union of cities and rural municipalities was asked. No one saw the problem. But the lifetime of the Supreme Court thought that interpreting the law maybe in due course I stress: it is also a very bad thing, however, we are in excessive danger and the time would be to amend the law. Then he came to us, then we thought about it, and then we did it here. It's bad, it's very bad legislation. We have built our society on the very wrong principle, where the Riigikogu has been moved further and further from lawmaking. Everyone else makes the law, the Supreme Court also passes the law through interpretations. So these are the problems we've been messing with here and teasing about, the good people. Not that we've been against this law. Let us think about this and put our country back on track. We're on the wrong track right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U180	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Corruption and the trading of influence, and all that falls under the name of such an activity, are undeniably a problem. This problem has not disappeared from our country, and it will never disappear from the world. It is quite clear that this problem needs to be dealt with on a daily basis. Now, with our legislation, we have reached the point where we are going to reduce this problem in Estonia. We will create more favourable conditions for this. We believe that this issue is no longer topical today. It's like we're on the right track, but unfortunately we're going the wrong way. Let me give you an example of a passing health crisis. Parallel to today's debate. Remember how the government in power today, as one of its first acts, began to harmonise the established corona restrictions. This harmonisation was primarily due to the relaxation of these restrictions in regions with higher levels of infection. But the rhetoric was that we were harmonising. We know where this harmonisation led. We know the results. I very much hope that by voting in favour of this draft today in this Chamber, those who intend to do so will ultimately not have the same result. Because the harmonisation of these restrictions in the health crisis ended very painfully and very badly. We were a red lantern in the world. Not only that, it may not be that important. But we lost hundreds of people, and our economy got really big. That's actually a problem. But now the main question. If you come to this particular bill 212, the key question is: if he is in charge of his boss, who is he? With this draft, we will raise the person working in the municipality with a contract of employment to the level of a member of the city and rural municipality government, the mayor and the mayor of the municipality. We will suspend his employment contract rather than give him the option of choosing whether he would like to continue to work in a particular municipality, which is a perfectly legitimate right, or go to a specific municipal council, which is also a perfectly legitimate right. But he should decide and choose. He couldn't sit, figuratively speaking, in two chairs at once. I would quote here from the explanatory memorandum one of the Court's concessions. "The Court acknowledged, however, that the restriction on combining the work of a member of the Council with that of an official body is justified by the resulting role due to conflict of interest, conflict of interest and possible risk of corruption. According to the Court, a conflict between the mandate of a council member and the interests of the office may jeopardise the functioning of the council. This may prevent a council member from checking the government and its subordinate administrative organisation. Similarly, the simultaneous working of a council member under the authority of the government may affect its decision-making in the council. In addition to the threat to the work of the council, no negative impact on the work of the government and its subordinate administrative organisation shall be excluded.' More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U182	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U183	Now we've found a solution that we're turning down, not on, and the problem is solved. What is raised up is that we agree that if we deny it, the result will be good. Not a good result. That is why the Isamaa Group cannot support this draft. For the same simple reason: because it does not solve the issues that have actually arisen. I very, very much hope that this draft will not be approved today, because, in some respects, we are repeating the same mistake we made with the health crisis when we set out on the road to harmonisation and eased the restrictions in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U184	Thank you. There's no more calls. The lead committee has proposed a final vote and a final vote at the final reading of 212. Before that, Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U185	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please take a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U186	Ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U187	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of local government initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 212. The draft is at third reading, the proposal of the lead committee is a final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U188	There are 79 ambassadors in favour of the draft, 9 members of the Riigikogu against the draft, the draft has been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U189	Let's move on to our agenda. Today's third item is the draft law on the protection of atmospheric air initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of the State Fees Act 345. We're at the third reading. It is now possible to speak, I will open negotiations. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U190	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Bill 345 is not as sexy as some of the earlier ones. But in fact he is important, though largely technical. You could talk about all this background here for a long time and what its contents are. It used to be, remember, a literary work like Dead Souls, how they were traded in their time. We have already spent a lot of time in this world where, in order to prevent the end of the world (due to overheating), emissions trading takes place in terms of CO2 equivalents. That's the bill that's working on it. We're all in the global market, everything's for sale. Also available are those units that are expected to prevent the end of the world (due to overheating). These trading periods or market periods are already [four], currently four are underway, the first started in 2005. These market periods have grown longer and longer. The current, fourth market period will run from this year to 2030. There is one such concept, of which very few are likely to know the decision on a shared obligation. In fact, when we fight against climate warming, the main emphasis has been on large producers, especially power plants and industrial companies. But the'smaller brothers' have been excluded: transport, agriculture, by the way, also cows that are in the barns, or meat cattle that move freely around, waste, other industrial processes and also small energy. The decision on this shared commitment sets limits on how much one country or another must reduce its pollution level. In the case of the wealthier countries, it is somewhere 20%, in terms of GDP not at the top of our kind 11%, we have this 13%. That's the general background. Now, speaking of how this concerns Estonia in particular, when you have read this bill or its explanatory statement, I think most people don't understand it at all. It contains measures, regulations and so on, so that this text is only very well-informed to people. Others just nod their heads, pretending like they understand. Here's an example. The two institutions have put forward proposals for this [draft], one of which is the Union of the Chemical Industry. Here's the background. I'm going to read a few sentences. Every year, now in the fourth market period, Estonia and all other countries [data] have to be provided, how much quota can be obtained free of charge, and then report to the European Commission how it has been used. In the fourth trading period, relatively more flexible trading rules have been put in place, can be transferred, reporting can be made more flexible. There's a date here on February 28th.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U191	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U192	Yeah, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U193	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U194	Here's a little thing. The Chemical Industry Association has proposed that if you have to buy, as they say, for example, EUR 4 to 5 million of free credits, and if you can only write it off on 30 April, no clean date game, then where to take the money. One way to proceed with this draft at the moment is to send workers on forced leave or something. This is also one of the improvements that we have taken into account here so that there are no such problems. I would stress that this draft concerns the fourth trading period, but the European Commission has not yet come this far. In rural language it can be said that there are so-called start-up problems, there are still no precise rules of the game, and with this draft we smooth some things out here. But that's all I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U195	Thank you. Does Evgeny Ossinovski have both speech and procedure at the same time? Just a speech, okay? Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Peter said a few comments from the lead manager of this bill. It is true that the European Union's environmental policy, particularly with regard to emissions trading and, in general, the various policy measures for reducing pollution, which are divided into several headings, is indeed a very complex area and, in order to understand it, really needs to be quite informed. It's true. However, by this law we do not make fundamental decisions on the emissions trading system. This is a specification of the technical conditions for the next or ongoing trading period of the emission trading system up to 2030. Something like that. The necessary points of national law in the new period of trade in emissions have already been transposed into our law, in this same law on atmospheric air protection during its membership. Mr. Chef was then the Minister of the Environment, who was here with this proposal a few years ago. What has now happened is that, indeed, these points that were legalised at the time must be clarified as a result of the adoption of certain implementing legislation by the European Commission. It is really annoying to read this, but given that this is the credibility of the emissions trading system, it is very important that these measures and operational details are transposed as unambiguously as possible in all Member States. They should therefore also be clarified. A more general comment, too, on which there was a very thorough debate here at second reading. Indeed, such an in-depth debate on the emissions trading system has never been remembered in this Chamber. It has been found internationally that one of the most effective ways to reduce carbon emissions in countries is precisely the introduction of an emissions trading system. This will, on the one hand, provide the necessary economic incentive for market editors to make their activities more environmentally friendly. On the other hand, general market competition is also least distorted by comparison, for example, with direct subsidies, that some sectors will be subject to charges. This practice usually leads to quite large distortions in this economic structure and, consequently, the European Union's emissions trading system is obviously a global success story of climate policy; there is no question here. It's a success story. As a result, countries have had sufficient motivation and industries have sufficient incentive to reduce their emissions. So it's a good thing, it's a very important thing. And the same technical changes that you read in this draft and which are really almost impossible to understand without the prior in-depth knowledge, are actually very important in order for this system to work and Estonia as part of this system. In addition, it should be noted that the state of Estonia receives income from it. Pretty significant revenue is generated by this system due to the fact that these quota units are distributed among countries in each trading period. Countries sell these units to companies that deliver them in the European Union, companies buy them, and this revenue is transferred to the state budget. This, on the one hand, creates the necessary incentive... I'd like some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U197	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U198	We'll take three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U199	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U200	This will create the necessary incentives for businesses, as has already been said, but, on the other hand, it will provide the countries with the necessary revenues to achieve a double effect so that they themselves contribute to meeting their climate targets. The minimum directive says that 50% of the revenues of the emissions trading system will be spent on achieving climate objectives. This is the only bad thing about this bill and it is a pity that the amendment tabled by the Socialists, or rather by me, was left without the support of the grand Chamber of the Riigikogu at second reading. This would have forced the government to use 100% of the revenues from the emissions trading system to meet its climate objectives. At the moment, 50% is for climate objectives, and everyone else will decide in the context of putting together a budgetary strategy. In other words, there is a general fiscal revenue that can be used to patch up budget holes, or certainly to do good things in other areas, but not in the context of climate objectives. Given also the acute nature of the climate crisis, I think it would actually be appropriate for Estonia to increase its ambition and invest more in this area. Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected. However, since, as has been said, this is an important technical clarification that this system of trade in emissions will also work nicely and reliably in the new period, the Social Democrats nevertheless support the adoption of this draft and I call on others to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U201	Thank you. I don't see any more wish for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 345 and we will go to it, but before that, Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U202	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask you to take a break for seven minutes before voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U203	Seven-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U204	Ladies and gentlemen, We're on the third item. Bill 345 of the Act on the Protection of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Government and the Amendment to the Law on State Fees. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U205	Henn Fieldase, procedural. Henn Põllaasa has a procedure upstairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U206	I'm so sorry, I don't really have a procedure. This hand is... electronics have done their tricks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-15_U207	Okay, there's no procedure. In that case, I shall announce the result of the vote. 86 members of the Riigikogu supported the draft, there is no one against it, there are no abstentions. The draft has been approved. Now, there are a lot of things on the agenda, but I know that there are also requests for speeches and breaks on the next draft. And since tomorrow we will have the first item of censure, but the Rules of Procedure provide that the item in progress should be dealt with, in order not to start starting with the first item on tomorrow's agenda with any other drafts still pending today, I will announce the President's break for seven minutes. The sitting is adjourned.
