ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U1	Rene Chef, please! Good René, I can't hear you. Let's try it again! Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U2	[[Remote connection]] Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U3	Yeah, we can hear you now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U4	Thank you. Good President! Good minister! Aren't you afraid that if we give you a very light-handed right... (Community chops, talk doesn't make sense. ... don't people with obvious signs of disease from a tram, bus or...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U5	Good fellow Rene Chef, I'm afraid your voice is not being heard. I'm sorry, I can't hear you. Let's make sure that in the meantime, the next questioner asks, and then we come back to Rene Coke. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U6	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! It's not for nothing we're talking about the dangers of a police state. This law gives the police the power to invade private territory, private events, and to disperse all kinds of gatherings. We have a very specific problem. We are facing elections, electoral events in Estonia and it may well happen that this law will prevent the most basic, fundamental political freedoms in Estonia, which are freedom of association and freedom of political meetings, even if they are used according to established rules. Worse still, however, the freedom to lay down these rules is granted to officials and to a sitting government on the basis of their discretion. In addition, fines can be imposed if an excuse is found that the rules have been violated at these meetings. We see here the danger that, for example, before the elections, EUR 32000 will be fined for each meeting to some fine opposition party. It's perfectly legal when it's accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U7	Thank you for your question. Well, obviously you also realize that none of these described by you, I don't know, fears are neither the purpose nor the meaning of this law, and certainly not the government's. I also have a strong belief in law enforcement, law enforcement. The Police and Border Guard Board will certainly not abuse the possibilities provided by law; it will not do so today. As I referred to earlier, different possibilities, all possible entry and screenings are actually possible under the current law, but this is done in extreme cases. Perhaps we are talking at the level of the Police and Border Guard Board about a situation where there may be some helpless person in possession who needs help and support, perhaps a case of violence that needs immediate intervention. Such entries and other similar practices, including prevention of events in Estonia, are carried out in very extreme situations and legal bases exist today. The Police and Border Guard Board has no desire to abuse its powers in any way. Neither the Ministry of the Interior, the Government, the Riigikogu or our law enforcement bodies have such a plan or intention. In my opinion, the practice so far has actually shown this for quite a long time. Estonia has been a very good and exemplary rule of law in resolving such issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U8	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U9	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I still want to come back to the same question I asked once. You answer that in the future [must] still prevent these problems. The question is that we do not need to turn the existing law into a law of police pressure [with 347 SE]. We have laws. And if it's a problem, we're really declaring a state of emergency or martial law in accordance with the rules in force. We do not need to start making one law like this halfway into an emergency law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U10	Thank you very much for your question. Yeah, well, just as questions really tend to happen, so do the answers to them. I apologize to those who have already heard that answer. What is important is that we can respond very quickly and quickly to the spread of communicable diseases, as well as to wider health crises, even before the situation escalates, so that we do not have a situation where we reach [high] levels of infection or spread of the virus, which already requires a state of emergency. We must be able to take the necessary steps earlier, it is really quickly isolation of the sick, it is monitoring their self-insulation, it is compliance with some government rules. All of this does not require that we declare an appropriate situation, such as an emergency. Even in the health perspective, there may not yet be an emergency, but we can see that the risk of epidemic spread is very high in the country, as well as the risk of an emergency. It will then be very right and reasonable to react to it in an operational manner, precisely so that the situation does not get out of control and we do not see such a long, frantic crisis as is actually the case today for a very large part of the world because of the COVID-19.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U11	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U12	Thank you. Well, Tanel, I was talking about it, you were talking about something else. The fact that the police may go into possession if they see or suspect a crime or see a person in a helpless situation is quite different from what the law is now about to allow. And we have no reason to fear here that the police do not want this power. I have two concrete examples of Estonia for today's regulation. The head of local government and the local constable threatened that the EKRE could not hold a meeting here, even if only five people were to attend this meeting in private territory. We're gonna break it up! It's not a fiction, it's a practical life today, and you want to give more of that power and these powers. This is not an abstraction. It is very nice that you believe in the Estonian rule of law, but I see what practical life is, and that is why we cannot support this law. All the more so because we have other solutions. Why don't you use these other solutions, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U13	Thank you. If any municipal or law enforcement body exceeds its powers, it is certainly reasonable to make a statement immediately. In this case, however, as Minister for Health and Labour in particular, I am curating the health sector and the area of work, and these specific legislative changes, as I have also referred to, are particularly important for resolving health crises. Our aim, and I am convinced, is not to increase rights and to abuse them in any way, but to help prevent the spread of the virus, to help resolve future health crises. At the moment, this has been done very well, I would say, in the area of health and internal security in cooperation between themselves, but there have also been a great many bureaucratic obstacles within the framework of this cooperation. Changing this law would provide an opportunity to intervene more effectively, act more quickly and thereby protect the Estonian population and people's health in general. And these are the reasons why I consider it necessary to amend this law, which I support. This is in addition to the reimbursement of the sick leave already highlighted earlier and other supporting measures that will help us out of this crisis more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U14	Imre Sooäär, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U15	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! As the verbatim reports of the Riigikogu last until the Republic of Estonia, hopefully for thousands of years, I want to take an unprecedented step in the interests of the verbatim. I want to apologize to honourable colleagues and the entire Riigikogu. I interpreted Article 70 of the Home and Working Procedures Act as I did. I would point out that I was based on the fact that I did not mention the name of the previous Minister for the Interior in my regular speech, but he did so, on the basis of which I assumed that I was entitled to a two-minute address. I would like to thank my honourable colleague, Mr Ossinovski, who pointed out that there is a different interpretation in the executive 5-inch Home and Working Procedures Act. Maybe that's what you can really interpret. After all, it will be decided by the President of the sitting. I think this is a good lesson for the future, so that this section cannot be used to delay sittings, for procedural issues which do not really have a basis. Once again: I apologise to the Riigikogu, and I hope that we can consider this exchange of words with the former Minister of the Interior, whose name I do not mention here, to be concluded and a lesson for everyone, also for the new Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu, which has just begun.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U16	Thank you. Yes, I also heard this statement of opinion and I say that I fully support what Mr Ossinovski also mentioned, that when we talk about an answer, it is really meant in the round of negotiations. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U17	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, it's a procedural question. The person whose name I don't want to name, we're having the night right now. The same person I don't want to name interpreted it when I took the oath and spoke with eloquence again. So let's work and finish these eloquences.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U18	Let's keep going. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U19	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, are these increases in powers time-bound and, if not, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U20	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. As far as cooperation between law enforcement authorities is concerned, for example, the possibility for the PPA to carry out certain tasks within the competence of the Health Board, they are timeless. The point is that if there is such a crisis and there is a need, it is now a COVID-19 crisis or some future health crisis, where both the government and the relevant authorities consider it reasonable to reprogram work, i.e. it is the Emergency Response Centre, it is the Police and Border Guard Board, it is the other body to use the resource, it can be operationally used. This law does not mean that the PPA is automatically and forever in charge of the Health Board, of course not, but, at the time of the resolution of a particular crisis, it is such a legal opportunity to carry out these tasks. The more precise procedure comes from the decree of the Government of the Republic, where these details will be fixed. Of course, this requires that, if, for example, the national authorities propose to each other, they cooperate, it is precisely the real vital need that is taken into account. In this case, for example, the Health Board sees very clearly that it is not within their power to monitor compliance with all these rules, as they are 20 times less structured than the Police and Border Guard Board. In the interests of both the state and the authorities, that compliance with the rules that the government has established is as broad as possible and throughout the country, this closer cooperation makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U21	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Let's move on to this item. Siret Kotkal, President of the Social Affairs Committee, will now have the floor on this item, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U22	[[Remote connection]] You hear that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U23	Hi! I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U24	Very good. Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, presented to the Commission the content and objectives of draft law 347 amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and related amendments to other laws, and answered further questions from the members of the Commission at the meeting of the Social Committee on 15 March. At the meeting of the Commission, Commissioner Siret Kotka was interested and asked how much has been applied in practice in the case of the Health Board. Ebe Sarapuu, Deputy Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, replied that the appointment of forced money had been made, but not on a massive basis. Commissioner Priit Sibul asked, as is the case with Minister Tanel Kiig here today, and examined the duty of masking in the Commission and that it is interpreted very differently. In the Commission, Minister Tanel Kiik replied that, as the number of people affected is currently high and compliance with the rules needs to be checked, the law should explicitly provide for the use of personal protective equipment and the imposition of liability for non-compliance with the rules. A similar response was given by the Minister to Priit Sibula in this great hall today. Commissioner Kert Kingo referred to the various supervisory measures set out in the draft and noted that the use of such measures is understandable in exceptional circumstances, but there is no emergency situation at the moment and that the inclusion of these measures in this law is incomprehensible. Minister Tanel Kiik replied that the measures set out in the law are mostly applied in exceptional cases, for example when the virus is deliberately distributed and not subject to the orders of the Health Board. My colleague, Kert Kingo, also examined how it can be demonstrated that people are aware of the spread or non-cooperation of infections, if the tests in use are not fully reliable and can give false results. This question was answered by the Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Nele Wheat, that, in the event of false positive or false negative results, people would not be punished during supervision. The following procedural decisions were taken: It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 24 March, including a consensus; all nine members of the Commission were in favour; to propose that the first reading be closed in the same way; all nine members of the Commission were in favour; to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 1 April, including 1 p.m.; and that the nine members of the Commission were all in agreement; and to appoint Siret Kotka as rapporteur, consensually, all nine members of the Commission were in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U25	Good waitress, thank you. No questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Sibul, representative of the Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U26	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the 25th of March, which in Estonian history bears a terrible temple. I hope many of us will join together today and put candles on the windows in memory. This historical 25 March 1949...... touched a great many people and families in Estonia, but they are very different in other respects. [[We're breaking up.]] Now about the bill we're working on. Last November we amended the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and this was followed by a public debate carried out by the former Chancellor of Justice, who questioned the law. It is true that the Chancellor of Justice in office also had some comments. Then the Ministry of Social Affairs convinced me that there was no problem and that justice was appropriate and sufficient. However, less than six months later, we are changing the same bill again. It makes perfect sense to do something. But it is always the case that doing the right thing is not just doing the right thing, but doing the right thing at the right time. It is clear that there are many right things in this bill, but they are late, hopelessly late. We're in coronal chaos. Clarity in taking and compensating quarantine sheets and taking and compensating for the sick list by employers 2. until the day and beyond from the Health Insurance Fund's budget is a very appropriate but very expensive and costly measure for businesses. It was under our leadership that this measure was introduced as a means and temporary until the end of April. Given that control over the spread of the virus has been lifted since February, which forced the government to impose strict restrictions on people and businesses that have been sorely hit, it is appropriate to extend this measure until the end of the year, and that is what we support. There are debatable places in this bill; it is not possible to lead society by threat or whip. The Prime Minister should not threaten to cancel the summer, but instead check that the restrictions and requirements are met. Changes to this draft will help to make this better and clearer. The law alone doesn't change anything. Success requires good crisis management and understandable communication, not confused Facebook posts. We want this bill to become a law as soon as possible, and the Estonian people will be able to break the backbone of the virus by following it together. Good luck.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U27	Thank you. Now the representative of the Reform Party Group, Tiiu Aro, please. Dear Tiiu Aro, you are not to be heard. Dear Tiiu Aro, will you please see if your microphone is on or not? Now let's try it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U28	[[Remote connection]] Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U29	Now you're hearing it, and now you're showing a sign that your microphone's on, not off. Please, Tiiu Aro, again, five minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U30	Thank you! Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Colleagues! The situation on the COVID front is not commendable, it is known. The purpose of the pending draft law is to limit the spread of the virus, which in the long term allows for freedom. I stress, to be free of restrictions for the time being. I will suspend three amendments. First of all, the proposal to extend the period from January this year to 2.5. reimbursement of sickness days until the end of this year. Why? There are many occupations and jobs where teleworking is not possible in any way, but income is crucial. Two-fifty-five. compensation for sick leave until the end of the year is reasonable, keeping potential carriers and sources of infection away from the workplace and colleagues. The sick person is away, he does not pose an additional risk to his health or to his colleagues. Secondly, the proposed sick list and the sickness benefit under the conditions mentioned above also for those close to the infected, i.e. those in quarantine. Clear and understandable...... possibility of involving law enforcement bodies in the performance of the tasks of the Health Board. [[The connection's breaking up.]] Being quite familiar with the possibilities and tasks of the Health Board, I would argue that reinforcements are necessary. In view of the widespread spread of the virus, compliance with and control of established rules is essential. I would like to remind you here: the obligation to wear masks in public indoors, including public transport and service places, has been in place for a long time and has been verified by the police, but disputes persist. As a doctor and a citizen, my view is that wearing a mask is a protection, but also a tribute. That's how we show that we care. We care about the others and ourselves. Finally, the protection of health is the right of every person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U31	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Kert Kingo! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you. Our country is in a difficult situation. Coronavir infection rates are rising and we are therefore at the forefront of European countries. At the same time, our country is unmanaged because the Prime Minister is hiding. He communicates with his people on the right hand through social media and in order to tell people: you have to work, you are responsible. Internally, different and increasingly stricter restrictions are being applied, as only the people are guilty. What, then, is the proposed amendment of this draft law 347? In addition to the extension of the current sickness benefit scheme until the end of 2021, this bill is intended to allow close contacts of infected persons to receive compensation while on the sick list. This means that it's two to five. until the day, the employer will also compensate for the sick leave of workers who are in close contact with the quarantine, in addition to compensating for the sick leave of the infected workers. Well, that's good news for the employees. But for entrepreneurs who are already hard to cope with and survive in a closed society, it is more than hard, likely to be fatal. If this amendment to the law is approved, we have essentially approved the mechanism for destroying entrepreneurship, one of the possible tools for the final ruin of the country's economy. This amendment to the law is also intended to involve law enforcement bodies in the fight against the virus and to empower them to use different means of coercion that are appropriate to special circumstances, such as forced transport, screening, entering or reviewing movable property, and the right to detain a person for up to 48 hours. All said to support the resolution of the epidemic regime in Estonia, to monitor people. Today, the introduction of curfew class is also real. At the same time, airplanes burst into and out of the country, dragging traveling people across different countries. The government considers that the disease scene is inside the country and that foreign flights and tourist trips are not a problem. Really? Only one person from some exotic country will return to Estonia with a new COVID strain, and a new epidemic will begin. Let me remind you that the whole COVID-19 pandemic was claimed to have started with one person in Wuhan City. There is also total confusion with vaccination, which is so much hoped for and believed to be effective in slowing down the spread of the virus. People at risk do not have enough vaccine because it is distributed from the bottom to their friends, acquaintances, useful business partners or potential party donors. What can you expect from such an attitude? In addition to all this, the Prime Minister will finally notice after his final ski season that we have a major problem, followed by a threat, of course, towards the people and people again. Yeah, we have a problem, but it won't be solved unilaterally. Nor will this be solved by the proposed amendments to this Act to apply an additional tax burden to businesses and involve law enforcement bodies, together with various coercive instruments, in the supervision of people. This draft does not solve the problem that has hit us; it is a half-hearted and superficial solution. Therefore, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia considers that this draft must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U33	Thank you. I now give the floor to the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U34	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the restrictions applied two weeks ago, the spread of infection remains very high. Last week the number of infected people increased by 7%, rather than decreased. If the current restrictions have not led to a rate of infection below 1, further steps are needed. There are so many of these limitations and behavioural recommendations and rules that people are tired, they feel reluctant about further restrictions. Why not motivate the corona - positive and close contacts to stay at home by paying sickness benefit for the first day? We've heard for the past 10 hours why not. Firstly, because local authorities have the support provided for in the supplementary budget and local authorities can decide for themselves what to do with it. I fully agree that self-decision by municipalities, flexibility is important, for example, in the organisation of social welfare, but we are talking about a crisis measure now. We do not need to wait for individual decisions and discuss whether the first day of illness is reimbursed by the municipality of residence of the affected person or by the municipality where the employer is located after the adoption of the additional budget and the additional resources are directed to the municipalities. After all, we all know the unfortunate examples of funeral support. This is a crisis measure that we need. This needs to be implemented over and over from the government reserve and immediately, for example, from 1 April instead of 1 January next year. Second. Well, you can't because the infection coefficient R0 is hopefully going down 1. I hope so, too. I hope so. But with this slightly less than 1 R0 we're going to have a very slow decrease in the number of infected people. It'll be months before the restrictions can be relaxed. Something more needs to be done. Three. A person must remain liable. After all, the criterion for reimbursement of the first day of illness is a positive test result or close contact identified by the Health Board. A person doesn't just decide to stay home. An employee with a sick minimum wage loses nearly EUR 100 with a two-week sick leave. In other words, a person is responsible for protecting others from being infected by his or her livelihood. We have an additional budget of EUR 641 million, but this EUR 100 must still be paid by any low-wager himself. Four. Well, we need to discuss, think, agree with the social partners. Agreed, we could leave much more working life for workers and employers to agree on each other. However, we are not talking at the moment about a long-term change in the sickness benefit scheme or about a thorough restructuring of social security schemes. We are talking about a crisis measure. We are not talking about increasing the burden on employers, on the contrary, we are talking about reducing the burden of compensation for sick days for employers. Five. Second-day compensation already has an impact. Both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Public Administration confirmed earlier that compensation for sick days would be continued exactly as the Minister of Health and Labour introduced us, starting on the second day. Because it is a good way to support the survival of patients at home, this measure works and has already had a positive impact. It is excellent that it has been confirmed that more generous compensation for sick days reduces the amount of work that is being done when you are ill. Of course, we must continue to do so, but now we also have a common task of reducing the spread of infection, and we need to leave more sick people at home. So we do not just need to continue with the action that is working, but we need a measure that is working even better. So we all understand that further steps are needed to prevent the spread of the virus. It is clear that there are no real arguments against the substance, nor is there the enormous cost it entails. It is therefore incomprehensible why the constructive proposal of the opposition aimed at curbing the spread of infection does not really recommend even further discussion, although there is no plan to brake the spread in the workplace. So I call on all my fellow Members to support the Socialist amendments and the draft, which would make it possible to pay sickness benefits to the corona-positive and close contacts on the first day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U35	Thank you. Dear Henn Põllaas, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has already spoken in the round of negotiations, Kert Kingo has done so, so I cannot give you any more floor. The rejection of Kert Kingo has already made its proposal, and we have it well signed. So I don't see any more requests for speech, so I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 347, while the Bureau has received a proposal from the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party who has proposed to reject the draft 347 at first reading. I will begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, we have a technical problem at the moment, so I will interrupt the preparation of the vote and take the chairman's break in 15 minutes. The hearing will be resumed in 15 minutes. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U36	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. At the moment, it seems to us that the system of sittings has come back on and started to work. Kalle Grünthal, procedural please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U37	Thank you, Mr President. The question is, after this thing shut down here, our remotes won't signal any more. I think maybe we should do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U38	Yes, thank you! The message that they want to control the presence has come to me on the phone. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U39	80 members of the Riigikogu registered, no 21. Dear colleagues, when we took a break, we were on the verge of a vote. The subject of the vote is that the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft 347 at first reading. Can we go to the vote? I will put to the vote the draft proposal by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject the 347 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U40	With the result by 18, against 62 the proposal was not supported. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 349 be terminated. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 31 March at 17:00. It's... I'm sorry, [proposal] 347. That concludes the ninth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U41	We will move on to agenda item 10 - the first reading of the Bill 349 on Amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The floor is presented by the Minister for Education and Science. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U42	[[Remote connection]] Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you with the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which relate in particular to the organisation of state examinations during the COVID crisis. Our aim is to ensure that no child's school is left unfinished due to the COVID crisis and that all graduates who wish to enter the next school level can apply in time for the schools they wish to enter, including international universities. To this end, we ask Parliament for permission, first of all, to change the timing of the examinations. This is in case COVID's crisis situation does not allow exams to be carried out on the dates set last summer. Secondly, if necessary, offer a third examination time, especially for those young people who, due to bad coincidences, such as isolation or illness, are unable to attend either during the first exam or during the additional exam. It is with these in mind that we ask for the opportunity to set the third test dates so that all children can receive their graduation certificate. And thirdly, if the government has to impose additional restrictions on movement, for example, we will eliminate today's differences in schools, where consultations can be carried out as contact training, where children with special educational needs can be taught, where traineeships can be carried out in small groups, but also, under today's exceptions, exams may also be carried out in the school building if the government has to amend this exception, then we ask to link the completion of upper secondary school exams to the conditions of termination. In essence, this means that state examinations become voluntary. I fully understand that it is very important for students and schools to know when and under what conditions the school will be completed this year. The first state examination period is already less than a month from now: the state examination of Estonian should take place on 19 April. This concerns 7,000 young people from 158 schools. Although the organisation of the examination is by its very nature a very strictly regulated activity, I also asked the scientific council to assess whether the organisation of the examination on 19 April was an activity with a high risk of infection in today's knowledge. In the opinion of the Scientific Advisory Board, an examination could be carried out if the situation does not get worse than [it] today [is]. And, of course, using all the safety requirements: dispersing, wearing masks, airing rooms, disinfecting hands. We have also offered the possibility for all members of the exam committee and external evaluators to receive the first dose of vaccine. The Scientific Panel also recommended considering the possibility of rapid testing of the examiners prior to the exam and this would certainly reduce the risk of infection: if there is a positive presence among the examiners, we will identify him before the exam. Secondly, it also provides an opportunity to offer an immediate next exam to the person who is infected. I'm sure we'll consider the possibility of using speed tests on graduates this year. After the state examination of the Estonian language, a written and oral examination takes place as the second language of Estonian combined with the B2 exam and affects a little more than 2,700 young people. Two exams have been planned in May: at the beginning of May, the State Examination of English, by 4500 young people, and at the end of May, the Mathematics Exam, which together, will go through both broad and narrow mathematics, will pass 9,000 young people. We have already today postponed the Cambridge International English Language Examination and also the International French Language Examination. There was no need to amend the law to postpone these exams. These exams would otherwise have had to take place at the end of March. If Parliament gives permission and the situation allows, with today's knowledge, we would only change the time of the State Examination of English. Today, a written English state examination has been established for May 3rd, which we would postpone to May 7th, and an oral examination for the 10th13th. May. All these exam dates apply to today's knowledge. If the situation gets worse, we also need to change the timing of the exam and, if necessary, untie the results of the exams from the conditions of completion. I have consulted several school leaders who have assured me that they have a good experience last year in organising exams under COVID conditions. They have said that, given all safety requirements, they are, of course, ready to do so this year as well. In addition to the organisation of state examinations, we ask Parliament to allow us, like last year, to use verbal assessments and assessed/not taken into account in all levels of school during this academic year. This has been requested by several school leaders. As this is a time-critical draft, I would ask Parliament to deal with this draft as soon as possible. Thank you for listening and I am happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U43	Thank you. You have questions too. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U44	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Indeed, given the exceptionally high rate of infection in the country, very many parents and school teachers say that this year the state exams could be canceled, or at least they could be voluntary and unfinished. What are you gonna tell these parents and a lot of schoolteachers who think that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U45	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. First of all, in middle school, exams are unbound with graduation conditions. As we know, the threshold for passing the comprehensive school finals is quite high, and that is why we decided that this year they will be exempt from the conditions of graduation, but the exams will still be compulsory. In the case of upper secondary school graduates, a minimum of 1 point is required for the examination. I believe everyone can do that one point. I understand, of course, that if something is mandatory, it will in itself cause more stress. For example, last year, when the upper secondary school finals were voluntary, there were actually quite a lot of quitters, almost 40% for the mathematics exam. We would not want such a huge gap of assessment on the basis of common tasks this year. In fact, it is important for the state to have an overview of the learning outcomes of distance learning, and then we can also provide additional support for the next stages of school mobility to fill these learning gaps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U46	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U47	Dear Minister, Indeed, there is such a déjà-vu feeling. In fact, a year ago we were dealing with a similar bill, and at that point this crisis was unprecedented, something that we have never dealt with before. This year we have a year's experience, and the fact that we are dealing with a similar bill means that during the year, HTM may not have managed sufficiently well in this situation. Maybe that gives room for some criticism. But my question has nothing to do with how or who to blame in this situation. I'd rather ask what you're gonna do in the summer, which is what you're gonna take as an experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U48	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. As you know very well, Viktoria, last year, the Minister of Education and Science asked for two years' mandate for similar changes. At the time, Parliament did not give him such a two-year mandate; the government was able to introduce these changes for one year. That is why I had to come to you again today to ask for this amendment. In this sense, I agree with the criticism that, as far as education is concerned, the summer was really missed. In fact, last summer, plans and actions could have been made to make our schools safer, for example, to deal with ventilation issues, such as providing schools with CO2 sensors, if they were unable to build ventilation, to introduce as safe as possible school arrangements. All of this could have been done. And as far as the exams are concerned, it is certainly very important in this new situation to consider whether we could also take the state exams electronically, just as, for example, upper secondary schools have carried out uniform entrance tests. They're all electronic. Today's technology already provides very safe measures to identify the person taking the exam. So it could have been dealt with sooner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U49	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U50	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You have to think positive, of course, but you have to be prepared for a darker scenario. If the epidemiological situation does not improve and exams may not be conducted, perhaps they will not take place, please explain your logic to me. You said that in that case they would become volunteers, maybe it was just a glitch. But I'm actually wondering what happens to college admissions. The explanatory memorandum says that this year some Estonian universities will be able to take their own entrance exams if state examinations cannot be taken into account, but not all universities and certainly not foreign universities. And what about those who do not want to go to college this year, who want to do it next year or the next year? What message is there for those graduates who cannot take exams this year because of restrictions imposed by the state? What about these further studies? Unfortunately, the explanatory memorandum does not provide an exhaustive answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U51	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Firstly, of course, we must also be prepared for the deterioration of the situation. For example, it is possible to postpone the state examination of the Estonian language to 30 April, and it is appreciated that then we will be able, with great effort, to make the test results public by 18 June. That's very risky, because that's exactly the time when schools would like to do their graduations and share their testimony. After all, our goal is to have all the test results known by then. But if additional restrictions are imposed and we cannot organise the exams at this point, then we should see when it is possible to conduct these exams. If such a situation happens, it is very difficult for me to say in advance that we can do it for a while. It'll probably stay in the fall. However, current forecasts do not foresee such a situation. Today's projections foresee a quiet but still improved situation. So let's hope the exams are still taking place. We know that taking state examinations in universities really is a prerequisite for applying in a large number of disciplines. It is important that young people can pass these exams in such a time frame that they can apply properly to universities, including international universities. It is also a very serious concern that they could be done at that time so that all young people could apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U52	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U53	Dear Minister, In contrast to the previous question, I would rather like to clarify. As far as I understand this bill, we'd rather give you insurance papers. So the current situation will continue exactly as it had been put in place, just that with this bill we promise you, if the situation gets critical, to change the standards that are currently in place. In the sense that this bill certainly does not automatically bring about any changes, including in the case of examinations. That's the first thing. And the other one. However, please specify once again: there will be no date changes to the Estonian language exam in April, but there will be no date changes to the English language [the exam], which will take place in May. Why is the English exam being passed? Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U54	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. As I said in my speech, we plan to postpone the English exam for a few days because we were forced to postpone the Cambridge International English exam and the French exam so that the intervals between these exams would be suitable for the students. It is such a decent chess to get these dates to match well, so that it is suitable for young people and there are enough days between these exams. Of course, this bill gives us a guarantee that if the situation gets worse, we can take certain steps. With today's knowledge, as I said in my speech, we would take the exams on given dates, with the exception of the English State Examination, the rest of the dates will remain the same with the current knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U55	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question relates to the fact that our good colleague, Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits, asked the question and you went smoothly to school health requirements. I have a question about such an extremely dangerous noble gas as radon. Health requirements are known to exist for upper secondary schools with a limit on radon in air. There may be up to 200 bekerels in the indoor air of the school. Interestingly, Paide, Järvamaa, builds a state gymnasium based on residential and industrial building requirements, or 300 bekerelli. Please explain how such a thing is permitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U57	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I admit that I am not familiar with this issue and I cannot answer that question. In any case, school environments are really very regulated environments, and if there is something wrong with it, it must be dealt with. I have recently dealt with CO2 levels in school rooms, which in very many cases are above the norm, and this is not only dangerous in terms of the spread of the virus, but it also clearly affects children's learning outcomes based on studies. But as far as radon is concerned, I owe you an answer here. I ask my colleagues to look into this and I will give you the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U58	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U59	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! You indicated that the previous minister had failed to do many things in the summer, or before. You gonna open up a little something he didn't do? The second question is: how do you determine whether these exams will take place? Well, native language on April 19th or some other time. Does this have anything to do with this R, this coefficient? What does it matter what meter is there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U60	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'll start at the end. First of all, the dates that apply today have been set last August. The law requires that these dates be put forward for a very long time [in place]; they have not been established in the near future. As regards the possible postponement of the examinations, as I referred to in my speech, we will certainly consult the Scientific Advisory Board on this issue. As with the current decision, if Parliament gives us the power to do so, we will not postpone the exam on 19 April with the current knowledge. But if the situation gets worse and the scientific council considers that it is still not safe to conduct these exams, we will postpone them. But in general, yeah, if you could get an R below 1, you could feel a little safer. As for last year, I understand that during the summer people were tired and that there was hope that things would get better, but if we were smart enough, we could have dealt with making the school environment safer. I told you before: getting CO2 sensors in classrooms, improving ventilation, etc. And the electronicisation of the exams. It is a very long-term process, but it could have started.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U61	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U62	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary! By continuing the dialogue between me and Viktoria, which goes through you, I would still ask you to assure us that this bill will allow the Ministry of Education to postpone the exams and will allow them not to be organised at all, in which case all upper secondary school graduates would also receive upper secondary school education. But the question I would also like to ask you is about the preparatory courses or assistance courses that are currently being offered to the gymnasts. As we know for a long time, they are offered only in Estonian and only to students who acquire education in 100% Estonian. For those studying according to the so-called 60:40 model and studying these subjects with exams in Russian, no courses will be conducted. Now, in the last few weeks, have you found any solution to this problem in order to provide support for these graduates so that they too can properly take their exams if these exams take place this spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U63	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Yes, in the Committee on Culture we had this subject up, and actually my ladies and gentlemen spoke to the University of Tartu after that. Unfortunately, we have to admit that we really do not have the capacity to offer these courses right now. I understand that although this does not help today's graduates, in any case, they will try to prepare for such a course in the future. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U64	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U65	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! After all, consultations are an integral part of the exams. And when we see that students are in distance learning, they have knowledge gaps and, of course, they would also like to consult. But I guess these consultations are still going to be one for one. Is and how has the Ministry of Education and Research provided for these consultations when the exams take place? And the other part of the question is whether there are funds in the budget for this. This is an additional burden for teachers, as the need for this consultation is clearly much greater in distance learning than in conventional education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U66	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. That's a good point. Indeed, consultations are necessary, and that is why the government has made the exception that consultations can be conducted in the schoolhouse, in small groups, scattered. Depends on the size of the room, and all safety requirements must be met: the mask must be worn, all these normal rules. But yes, consultations, including pre-trial consultations, may be conducted in small groups at school.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U67	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd like to elaborate on my radon thing. Radon comes from a natural radioactive breakdown, and if it gets into the schoolhouse, inhalation of this radon-rich air increases the risk of lung cancer. The question now is that Paide is building a state gymnasium and, knowing the local circumstances, I do not believe that the health requirements imposed on schools have been respected. Can I count on you in this regard, you are extremely sincere and seemingly, that, if this threat really exists, you will shut it down and not allow this radon nest to occur?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U69	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I do very much believe that all the necessary health measures will be followed when building schools. But as I said in answering your previous question, I am not familiar with this matter. I'll look into it and let you know what it looks like in our view.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U70	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U71	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! My graduating high school was in the last millennium, and it was some adult school. At the time, we were informed that those with some health problems would only bring a medical certificate and that they would receive some kind of "average" grade. Is there, say, such a calculation today that if, for example, a student does not want maximum scores, then some average calculation finds that the exam has been passed? Because today we know that organising an upper secondary school exam in law is enough if you go and know 1% of [the subject], then the exam has already been actually passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U72	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. You actually answered the question you asked. Indeed, 1 point is sufficient to complete the final exam of upper secondary school. I believe that this is not too much for a young person who has studied in upper secondary school for three years; rather, it has been discussed whether this 1 point is appropriate. So you have to take an exam to finish high school, but this threshold is very low.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U73	Peter Rahnel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U74	[[Remote connection]] I ask you this, now listening to your explanation for taking the exam: if the threshold is only 1 point, does the exam, if that makes any sense? The second question is: is it known how much money is needed to build ventilation in one school? The CO2 sensor, yes, it does, but it doesn't compensate for the ventilation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U75	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. The subject of examinations is indeed one that has been discussed very much in the field of education, and I believe that these discussions will continue. But right now, in a crisis, I'd limit myself to that academic year. The changes that we are asking for in this bill also concern only the current academic year. As far as ventilation is concerned, I, the school leaders and the representatives of the school managers, the representatives of local governments had a meeting with scientists who introduced us to various ways of making schools safer. Ventilation experts, mask experts, rapid testing experts were present. Indeed, according to the Building Register, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has made an overview of the number of school buildings with natural ventilation. There are over 700 of these school buildings. True, it is based on the building register, which means that not all of these houses have a study. And we want to get a real picture of how many of them we really have in cooperation with local governments, and where are the school buildings that need to be renovated or renovated. And it's really very expensive. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has estimated that if half of these schools needed renovation, the investment needs would be 350 million. We will certainly not do this quickly during the crisis, because they have also estimated that this renovation of ventilation can take a year and a half to complete the project. This is certainly a subject that needs to be dealt with further, and in cooperation with school holders. This is important, but it is certainly not such a rapid crisis measure. At the same time, CO2 sensors, which provide an operational signal when air quality has become poor, so that even windows can be opened, are a quick and actually effective measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U76	Thank you. No further questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U77	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, number 349, is in front of you. In short, according to the draft, the final exams are exceptionally not a condition for graduating from the upper secondary school if, due to restrictions on freedom of movement imposed by the Government of the Republic, it is not possible to conduct the final exams within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the draft will provide for the possibility, as appropriate, to postpone the examination and to provide for further examination periods. The change is necessary due to the situation caused by the COVID-19 epidemic. The Committee on Culture dealt with this draft on Tuesday 16 March. The manager was Jaak White, who is the vice-chairman of our Committee on Culture. Mr Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, was absent. The following members of the Commission took part in the meeting: Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Margit Sutrop, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. The Commission officials were Urvo Klopets, Adviser, and Carina Rikart, Adviser. Minister Liina Kersna and Head of the Foreign Evaluation Department of the Ministry of Education and Research Kristin Hollo were invited. At the beginning of the discussion, Minister Liina Kersna introduced the main principles of the draft. In short, once again. Firstly, to empower the government, if necessary, to change the dates of the exams that have already been approved today. Secondly, to empower the government to set the time limits for the additional exams of the state. Thirdly, if the Government of the Republic were to impose additional restrictions on movement, then it would be in this academic year that the examination results could be decoupled from the conditions for graduating from school. Once again, I stress that, according to current forecasts, there is no need for this, but, just in case, this bill gives us this opportunity. And fourthly, to give all levels of school, including upper secondary school, the opportunity to use a descriptive verbal assessment in the evaluation, which does not need to be translated into a five-ball rating scale. Again, I would like to emphasise: only this year. The members of the Committee on Culture then had questions. Eduard Odines started by asking if the draft should be dealt with urgently so that it would enter into force as soon as possible. Ms Kersna replied, as she said today at the beginning of the discussion, asking for the draft to be dealt with as soon as possible in the light of Parliament's practices. Eduard Odines said that verbal and numerical evaluation is part of the evaluation manual of each school and that if schools wish to take advantage of this possibility, this would require an amendment to the evaluation manual, which is a time-consuming process of coordination. Odines asked whether this would rather not hinder the introduction of the opportunity offered. Liina Kersna replied that, under the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, verbal assessments can be made until the end of the second grade of primary school, after which verbal assessments must be converted into numerical grades. Kersna said that according to the bill, it would no longer have to be done. Once again, only this year. Then there were a few technical questions related exactly to the subject of numerical evaluation. After that, the questions concerned a slightly different subject, which, although not directly relevant to the text of the draft text, still, since the Minister mentioned during the debate that, in cooperation with universities, the courses of repetition open to graduates are state examinations, which are extremely popular, some members of the Committee on Culture wanted to clarify precisely this topic during the debate. Kristina Šmigun-Vähi asked if there were also Russian-speaking young people to prepare courses for exams prepared by universities. Liina Kersna, just as she has said today, replied that Estonian as a second language does not have courses. Margit Sutrop continued the topic and specified whether universities would receive additional funding for preparing courses. Liina Kersna replied that universities would receive additional funding and that the course budget would be EUR 400000. Signe Kivi explained how students who are in trouble at distance training would be assisted. Liina Kersna replied that there are exceptions to digital learning for students in need. The opportunity is to meet the teacher at school and receive a consultation. The Ministry of Education and Research organises training camps with additional budget in summer, combining entertainment, improving learning skills, and also leveling out learning gaps. In addition, different courses will be offered to assist students in the autumn. There were two other issues that are directly related to this draft. I asked that Parliament dealt with a similar draft during last year's crisis and asked what the Ministry could have done in the meantime in order not to get into the same point. Liina Kersna admitted that she agreed with the criticism, most of the entrance attempts at upper secondary schools are digital, facial recognition programs are used, etc., the fact is that the state exams have not been digitalised, and she proposed to discuss this subject with the Commission in the future. The Minister added that Parliament could also have come forward with the draft a few weeks earlier if it had been better able to anticipate the risks. My second question was linked to verbal evaluation. Indeed, verbal evaluation was a major debate that I believe should come up with separately. I asked how verbal evaluation is linked to the crisis and why it should be seen as a point of this draft in the context of the crisis. Ms Kersna replied that this was also a time-limited point and that the proposal was in the draft, as this amendment was also introduced last year. The situation in schools is tense and the schools themselves have assessed that verbal assessment helps to alleviate this pressure. Some students are lagging behind in their studies, and their motivation is difficult to maintain. The Ministry of Education and Research wants students to stay in the education system and we will help them as personally as possible. These students are much harder to help and later find if they are not in the education system. The Minister added that the verbal assessment is no worse than the numerical assessment, and this is a request from schools, which would make the evaluation of the results of distance learning more flexible. This is not an obligation, it is an opportunity. Finally, Mr Valge proposed to appoint me as the representative of the lead committee, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be five working days, i.e. the deadline for amendments to be held until the next Wednesday at 17. All decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U78	Good waitress, thank you very much. There are no questions. I will now open negotiations, with the floor of a representative from the Central Party Group. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U79	[[Remote connection]] Hello! Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We are discussing the issue of our common future here, but we did not escape the past either. That's why I'm also a little reminded of last spring when the corona virus was new for all of us and we didn't know what the future was going to be. However, even then, the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, visited the Riigikogu asking for permission to obtain the right to change examinations for two years. Unfortunately, at that time, Parliament did not grant him this right, which is why the new Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, had to come to Parliament. We wanted or did not want to, we once again talked about the past, why in the summer the CO2 sensors were not installed in schools or ventilation was not improved. It is a little strange in itself to say here that why the Minister of Education did something last year, when, in the spring, even Parliament did not believe that such an emergency would need to be resolved again in a year's time. Schoolkeepers are primarily local authorities. And as the minister himself mentioned, local authorities, specialists and ministerial representatives found the ventilation to be extremely expensive and certainly cannot take place quickly. In this sense, referring to previous education ministers was perhaps not an appropriate example here. However, in order not to give a negative impression, the Centre Party Group supports this draft and wants Estonians, as a people of the faith in education, to be able to continue their education. Of course, we have an emergency situation, we need to think about new solutions outside the box. Finally, I say that the Central Party Group is in favour of this draft being dealt with in the Riigikogu as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U80	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 349 be terminated. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 31 March at 17:00. That concludes the first reading and the 10th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U81	We are moving forward at a nice pace to the 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market and the Penal Register Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 310, and here is the floor of the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U82	[[Remote connection]] Members of the Riigikogu! Let me introduce the draft law amending the Fisheries Market Organisation Act and the Penal Register Act drawn up by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The main objective of this draft is to give more equal treatment to persons engaged in commercial fishing at sea and on inland waterways, on the basis of support from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF). This concerns the non-granting of persons who have committed serious infringements of fishing activities within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the Environmental Board's decision to impose a penalty for the infringement. Due to the European Union's regulations, which apply only to fishing at sea, there is today a situation where serious infringements of fishing standards at sea...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U83	Minister, I apologize for a moment. Is there a sound problem in the hall? Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U84	Thank you, Mr President. I mean, I'm really saying it's an extremely bad pod that comes from there. Perhaps the Minister will be able to speak more clearly or closer to the microphone so that the sound can be understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U85	Thank you. Let's all try to do a little better. Please, Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U86	[[Remote connection]] Is that better?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U87	Yeah, let's move on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U88	[[Remote connection]] Yeah. As I said, the situation is to harmonise the equal treatment of persons engaged in commercial fishing at sea and on inland waterways, precisely on the basis of related infringements. The changes will create a situation in which those who have committed similar infringements in professional fishing both at sea and on inland waterways will not receive support, as has already been said, generally 12 months from the date of entry into force of the penalty, i.e. from the entry into force of the criminal record. However, certain differences in the limitation of support between inland waters and the sea remain. This is due to the infringement point system provided for in the European Union Regulation, which applies only to persons fishing at sea. We believe that such a system is complex and bureaucratic and therefore does not want it to be implemented on inland waterways. We have also tried to strike a balance and equal treatment between the sea and inland waters on the basis of the comparability of the punishment. The draft also provides for a refusal to grant aid within 24 months of the date of entry into force of the conviction for crimes and infringements relating to false declarations, the use of documents relating to fishing or the use of falsified documents or environmental damage to fish and water resources. There was still no provision for refusing support for such crimes, nor do European Union regulations, but in our view there is no justification for treating persons who committed crimes less favourably than those who have committed a misdemeanour. An amendment to the Penal Register Act is necessary in order to give legal meaning to the data deleted from the register and entered in the archives when granting the EMFF grants and when carrying out national supervision. In addition, the draft amends certain provisions of the Fisheries Market Organisation Act, the need for which has emerged from the experience of the implementation of the Fund so far that administrative burdens can be reduced in the implementation of the Fund. These amendments may rather be classified as amendments of a technical nature. I therefore have a proposal to approve this draft for the honourable Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U89	Thank you. Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Thank you. Let's move on, the next word on this item will be heard by the member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Kaido Hööölson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U90	[[Remote connection]] Hi! Any word from me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U91	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U92	[[Remote connection]] Dear Chairman, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 15 March 2021, the Committee on Rural Affairs held a debate on the draft Law amending the Fisheries Market Organisation Act and the Penal Register Act 310 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The debate was attended by the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, the Minister's Adviser, Evelin Oras, Siim Tiidemann, Deputy Secretary-General for Fisheries Policy and External Relations of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Ain Finland, Head of the Fisheries Management Department and Geir Veski, Head of the Legal Department, and Karina Torop, Head of the same department. As the Minister has already given an overview of the draft law, I am not going to repeat the content, but to give a small overview of the debate that took place in the Committee on Rural Affairs. First of all, the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse gave an overview of the draft law 310 on the organisation of the fisheries market initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of the Penal Register Act. He pointed out that the purpose of the draft was to give more equal treatment to persons engaged in commercial fishing at sea and on inland waterways when granting the support from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF). Ain Finland, Head of the Fish Economy Department, introduced changes to the draft. He noted that the current EU regulation regulates fishing at sea, but it is Estonia's wish to extend the regulation to fishing on inland waterways. Ain Finland presented the technical amendments to the draft concerning the extension of the allocation period provided for in the EMFF Community-led local development support measure, the establishment of a ranking and the granting of State aid for the assessment of applications for support from the EMFF. The questions raised by the members of the Commission followed. First of all, the chairman of the committee, Tarmo Tamm, took an interest in the regulation of inland waterways. Ain Finland stated that so far there was no basis for non-granting when a professional fisherman committed a serious infringement in fishing on the inland waterway. European Union rules apply only to fishing at sea. The vice-president of the Commission, Merry Aart, asked for clarification of the expression "inadmissibility of the aid application'. Ain Finland replied that no one could be deprived of the right to apply for aid, but if a professional fisherman has committed serious infringements, there must be a possibility that his/her application for aid would not be accepted. I asked who was going to keep the criminal record and where the point system came from. Ain Finland replied that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice to keep the criminal record and that the Agricultural Registers and Information Authority, or the PRIA, is already receiving data from it. Commissioner Andrus Seed asked what was a serious violation. Ain Finland replied that the list of serious infringements is contained in a European Union regulation. The list can also be found in the draft explanatory memorandum. Yeah, in the explanatory memorandum. That concludes the debate. Procedural decisions were taken by the Commission. Firstly, to propose a draft 310 on the agenda of the plenary session 24.03 today is 25.03 inclusive. Secondly, propose that the first reading of Bill 310 be completed. Thirdly, appoint a member of the Rural Commission, Kaido Höökelson, to act as rapporteur for the 310 draft. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U93	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U94	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, manager. Good performer! In the shadow of the night, dealing with a criminal catalog is the right time. I see that there are quite a lot of things in that catalogue: fishing without permission, fishing under the moratorium and transhipment of fish stocks in secret, forgery of the name of the vessel and the use of a vessel that is not under any country. Open up some of that background. Of all the serious violations in the catalogue, what are these most important?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U95	[[Remote connection]] First of all, certainly the failure to comply with the obligations relating to the submission of catch data, the use of prohibited or non-compliant gear, and the taking on board, transhipment or landing of undersized fish.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U96	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We are talking about the organisation of the fisheries market, etc., but the question is about Latvia fishing in Estonia by the Emajõgi River. There have been enormous complaints from local men that the Latvians' basically invasion of the Emajõgi River is such that they move, I might say, hundreds of tons of bugs away. Perhaps it is no longer recreational fishing, but industrial fishing, where the harvest is realised on the local market. I've been with the inspectors once on a raid, and within 200 meters, there were some five violations. Are you also going to do something to ensure that such industrial fishing ends in Estonia under the name of recreational fishing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U98	[[Remote connection]] Thanks to the questioner! This was not discussed at the Commission's meeting, but certainly, when this draft becomes a law, these same infringements apply to all those in the inland waters with both handlines and nets. It does not matter whether he is Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian or Finn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U99	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U100	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I have this question that once before we had fish inspectors, and when they noticed that there had been a robbery or something, they used to confiscate all the property on the ground. Do they still have that opportunity today? And what about the fish that have been confiscated? Of course, it would be an evil herd if they just went for fox food. Are they given to food aid, for example, or anywhere? What are the solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U101	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, of course, for the question. We didn't discuss it in the committee, but environmental officials, as far as I know, are still checking, constantly checking both rivers and lakes. If there's still a withdrawal period, you can't fish. If there are fishers caught by an environmental inspector during a closed period, the fine shall be based on the size and size of the fish. I hope I answered your question in part, at least.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U102	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U103	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, Is such sanctioning, I understand, wider than purely national, justified primarily because there are so many infringements? I do not know of this practice in the field of forestry or agriculture. Just as in Europe in general and on a directive basis, is its transfer to Estonia related to the fact that infringements are such a big problem and we are not really able to contain them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U104	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question. There are certainly those offenders at sea and on inland waterways among those involved in professional fishing. During the year, there are about 30 to 40 people who cannot apply for this benefit. It is reasonable, in my opinion, that all fishermen feel equally before the law that they should apply to inland waters.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U105	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! From your first response, I immediately realized that you are not a special fisherman, but since you are a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, you might be able to stand up for the fact that a fish resource that grows and develops and is caught in Estonia goes to the local market. The question is, the same thing, I don't remember whether it was 1 euro or more, but it doesn't matter, the order of magnitude is that Latvian and Estonian will redeem this ticket and catch unlimited amounts. This is about the unlimited amount of fishing that will be realised in Latvia. My proposal to you would be that perhaps you take your heart on the matter, because you are a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Mr Kaido Hööölson, that a certain limit will be set for the fishing of Latina this season. This would be a very big favor for Estonian fishermen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U107	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good questioner! You also have the opportunity to propose to the Committee on Rural Affairs. Nor did we have this debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs, which is a harder fisherman or hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U108	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U109	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I read in the explanatory memorandum that there are actually very, very few of those who go under this law. Four cases a year on our entire marine waters and four on inland waterways. My question is, are there so few? Or another thing, if we now adopt this law, the inspectors will also be motivated to remove their legs from their stomachs, and then they may come 40 or more at sea and inland waters than they do now. Or has nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U110	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. From Ain Finland, Head of the Fisheries Department, I specifically asked how many people could not apply for this support from the EMFF fund this year. His claim was that there were 30 to 40, not 3.4.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U111	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U112	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I hear there's only 30 to 40 of them, but we're all used to never believing a fisherman's story, fishermen being the biggest whales, let's say, after the pioneers. How, then, have other fishermen made their own lies, or have they not simply been identified? We're talking maybe on the top of the iceberg, but maybe the real problem is under the water. Have fishermen, for example, resorted to fishing by scuba and told inspectors to leave us fish alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U113	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Surely there are many fishermen who are very difficult or difficult to catch in action. But environmental inspectors already have very, very long experience of loading, landing, catching, misreporting even undersized fish. Wherever it is possible to correct these Lawyers for their benefit, they will do so. Hiding fish on the fishing boat, which must not be carried out, etc. I'm sure it's a problem, and as you mentioned, it could be the top of the iceberg. But I believe that environmental officials or controls control as much as possible and as much as they have human resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U114	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U115	[[Remote connection]] My second question now concerns a legal person who is a professional fisherman and has established cooperative activities, a member of that cooperative. If this member of the cooperative commits an infringement, will it automatically apply to the legal person in which it is actually a member, so that the cooperative cannot ask for support from certain measures? But such cooperatives can be very large fishermen who are professional fishermen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U116	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. As far as I know, this sentence will apply only to this legal person, not to this association.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U117	Thank you, good waitress, no further questions. And now I'm looking forward to opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups? No, I don't. Now we have to move on with the proposal of the lead committee. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 310. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 9 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is closed. Dear colleagues, that concludes our trial, thank you. Whoever's here, have a safe journey home, and who's already home, have a good night's sleep!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U118	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the 24th March briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U119	32 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 69 are missing. In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate: Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab in the role of Prime Minister, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri and Minister of Culture Anneli Ott. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Since we have 13 registered questioners, I have a suggestion that we should add one more ad hoc question to each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U120	The first question is from Indrek Saare, a member of the Riigikogu, and Jaak Aab, a member of the Government of the Republic. The subject is a health crisis. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U121	Hello! Thank you for the floor. Mr Aab, Minister for Prime Affairs! My question concerns the most topical issue, the health crisis. We are in a situation where we can see that, unfortunately, this hoped-for trend, that the coefficient of infection is rapidly decreasing, does not come as easily as it may have been expected. And we see that, like in the autumn, there is still one of the main problem areas where the infection disperses, jobs. The situational centre report yesterday shows that 60% of the disease scenes in the current situation are workplace sites. In this context, it is very important that people do not have the pressure to go to work with sick symptoms and that the employer does not have that pressure either. On the contrary, the employer should be fully motivated to ensure that under no circumstances does the person come to work with signs of infection. The Social Democrats have been saying since autumn that sick days should be reimbursed from day one. We have also tabled a draft so that it can be done 100% from day one. The Ministry of Finance has calculated that it will pay EUR 8.5 million until the end of this year. Do you intend to come up with this issue within the framework of the additional budget within the government in order to propose a change in the supplementary budget and to find money to compensate for sick days from day one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U122	I ask Mr Aab to answer that question. Please, Jack Aab!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! This is certainly a relatively topical problem that the previous government has tried to solve, at least by means of a temporary measure, and the current government will continue to do so. The previous government brought an amendment to the law to the Riigikogu and approved it, according to which the employer pays compensation for the second to fifth days. So the earlier system was changed. Before it was that three days was the person's own responsibility and then it was the employer's responsibility and then came the responsibility of the health insurance fund. At the moment, only the first day of illness is the person's own responsibility; no sickness benefit is paid for it. The second to fifth day is the employer's responsibility and then the sickness fund is already responsible. This amendment took effect as a temporary measure from 1 January and was to be in force until the end of April. Now, given the state of virus circulation and the need for people, not only COVID-positive but also close contacts, to be able to take a sick list and receive sickness benefits, the current government has brought a bill to the Riigikogu. It should be dealt with here in the near future and then, hopefully, adopted, with or before the additional budget, so that the same system of sickness benefit can be continued, starting from the second day of sickness. These proposals were tabled in the autumn, but, as the good questioner knows, when it comes to the health insurance fund and its budget, agreement must also be reached with the social partners, employers' representatives, employees' representatives. It took a long time to reach this agreement, and when the agreement was reached, the corresponding bill was brought to the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu confirmed it and the procedure changed. At that time, temporarily, but now we want to continue with this. The counter-question is whether the Social Democratic Party Group has also negotiated with the social partners before submitting its proposal to the Riigikogu, which I have examined, that the effects of realising your proposal may be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U124	Thank you. Indrek Island also has a point of clarification. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U125	Yeah, thanks! The question is whether this obligation is at least partly imposed on employers or whether the State will assume this obligation and find the means for it. If the state finds the resources itself, employers are also largely in agreement with this, especially smaller companies and their representative organisation. They have always said that it is important that the state, in this already difficult situation, where the employer often needs to find a replacement worker to keep the process going, can also find the means to compensate for sick days. After all, we all understand that if the first day is not compensated and the remaining days are paid only 70%, this is a significant loss of income and inevitably makes it very difficult or even impossible for some people to choose, because at the end of the month the bills have to be paid. I will come to that question again. Do you think that the 1.3% that needs to be found in the additional budget is conceivable, given precisely that the infection rate R0 is still more than one? We see that most of the fireplaces are precisely workplace fires, and from there the infection moves on to home. Therefore, the rate of infection is more likely to be higher than if people were to find motivation to stay at home if symptoms of the disease occur. Once again, I ask whether you are prepared to make such a proposal to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U126	Thank you. Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U127	Thank you, too, for this question. As I said, this agreement must still be negotiated with representatives of employers and employers, who are also on the Health Insurance Board. It was done quite thoroughly in the autumn. It certainly has a positive effect when a sick person does not have to come to work. That's what we've been saying all along, sending messages that a sick person wouldn't come to work. In addition, as I said, compared to the previous interim regime, which is valid until the end of April, it is clearly defined [in the case of the new regime] that close contacts, who are forced to remain in isolation and who cannot carry out long-distance work, because the nature of their work does not allow it, will actually receive sickness benefit on the same basis [as COVID-positive]. This is also a clear step forward, allowing both COVID infected and close contacts to remain isolated. This will ease their income and provide them with a share of their income. As far as the hearths are concerned, whether they are the workplace sites where the infection is spreading or some other sites, since in most places contacts have been reduced to a minimum or even non-existent level, there are not many places left. The virus in the workplace or in the workplace certainly plays a role in the development of these numbers. The scientific council and the contingency centre also gave an overview yesterday of the colleges that the percentage of people who had received the virus was somewhere. It was pointed out that over 40% of the cases are caused by the family and that the number of workplace sites is 15%. I'm not gonna argue about that proportion. It is likely to be this or different, depending on how a person places his or her contacts and how that can be identified. I mean, there's actually a lot of people who don't know where they've been infected. There, too, may be a part of the family circle as well as of workplace sites infected. Of course, it is important that sick and close contacts stay at home. That's why the government brought its proposal here. The Riigikogu is able to submit other proposals. Our solution, which has been negotiated with the social partners, is what has been presented as a draft and which has also been included in the additional budget of EUR 12 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U128	Thank you. And now, on this subject, there is a matter registered on the spot. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U129	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm a little impressed with your behavior. Last week, exactly a week ago, I asked you to give me a conditional marketing authorisation for the European Medicines Agency, which gives me the right to use the AstraZeneca vaccine. I repeated that request. To this day, I have not received an answer. It's amazing to me. I'm asking you to explain why you haven't answered me. That's the first part of the question. The other side is that it is known that the package leaflet will be included with the use of AstraZeneca, and this leaflet may be considered to be subject to additional monitoring, which will allow rapid identification of new safety information. [Vaccinated] can contribute to this by reporting all possible side effects of the medicinal product. Point 2 of this leaflet states that there is currently insufficient information on the effect of COVID on children and young people under 18 years of age, nor is it known how long protection against COVID will last for people older than 55 years. There's little data. At the same time, on 22 March, Maris Jesse's Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis issued new recommendations that vaccination should be given to 60-year-olds. And the reporting point says that this will help you get more information about the safety of your medicine. There is no doubt that this is an infringement of § 18 of the Constitution. Have you informed the vaccinators that they are subject to medical and scientific tests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U130	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U131	Thank you for your question. With regard to these questions that were left over in the previous Question Time, I gave a clear order to deal with them, and I believe that these answers will be received shortly if they have not yet been received. I've already sent a question about that. It's being dealt with. Now, as far as this dispute is concerned about the vaccines and the instructions that I have not read in such detail about the vaccine, I am listening to the opinions of the experts. What's to say in general? In general, it is...... [[The connection's breaking up.]] These vaccines are new, very quickly developed. But they have completed at least the minimum required clinical trials, as confirmed by vaccine manufacturers and confirmed by experts, the European Medicines Agency, the Estonian Medicines Agency. Where else can we get a better idea? I don't know how to draw conclusions from coffee grounds, maybe you do. There will be no tests, I assure you with absolute certainty. The vaccination decision is strictly voluntary. I've already read and heard people being intimidated by mass vaccination or forced vaccination. There will be no such thing in Estonia and there will certainly not be any such thing now. There's only a suggestion. After all, all the data available to us on the use of vaccines over the world include reports of all side effects. And in fact, the data that talk about both Europe and the world, and perhaps Estonia when we look at it, there are more or less a similar number of side effects on at least the three vaccines that are used in Estonia and all those vaccines that have been authorised by the European Medicines Agency for use here. So my clear opinion is, based on expert judgement, to vaccinate. As regards the age recommendations of AstraZeneca, which have recently been made, the recommendations of the experts must still be followed. And, as we know, there have also been some different approaches in the Member States of the European Union. I found one fact that I consider to be true, just as doctors claim that COVID-19 disease itself increases the risk of thrombosis in nearly half of the patients with COVID-19 and the examples of thrombosis in AstraZeneca are rather exceptional, so it is not worth scaring people with some huge, insane effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U132	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U133	Let us move on to the second question. It has been submitted by Helle-Moonika Helme and is answered by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. The subject is sexual self-determination. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U134	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. At the moment, there is a very heated topic in society as a whole, and for good reason, how old can a child with whom an adult can enter sexual relations without punishment. It is obvious that a 14-year-old is too young for that. Estonia is one of the few countries in Europe that does not protect their children from relations that are not of age, and from sexual activities and sexual exploitation that irreversibly alter their mental and physical health, but are allowed by the current law. Unfortunately, we are already hearing about such ugly acts against children, which were legally permitted in the past, but which, as it turns out, was, however, completely improper sexual exploitation. These cases have come to light, in public. But some politicians still think that this is the way to look at it, though. You must understand that there can't be any double-thinking around here. Also, specialists dealing with children, medical practitioners, psychiatrists, police officers, have tried to say that it is not okay. Our party already took a legislative initiative in the previous Riigikogu. Unfortunately, it did not find the support of the rest of the politicians. Why? At this point, I cannot understand the motives of those politicians who can explain with a perfectly straight face why an adult can have sex with a 14-year-old child and that it is perfectly okay. You and your party were among them at the time. What is your opinion on this issue now, and what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U135	Thank you. Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U136	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Yesterday, four ministers met as the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Social Protection, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Education and Science, and we decided that this age should be raised. We will develop a corresponding draft for this purpose, which will be completed by the end of April at the latest. There are several questions. First of all, the question is what should be the age of sexual self-determination of a young person. Right now it's 14, but it could be 15 and it could be 16. There are very different opinions. When this was asked by young people themselves in 2015, the young people mostly felt that it had to be 15 years. I am convinced, and very many others are convinced, that decisions concerning young people must also involve themselves in the debate, and their opinion must be taken into account. We certainly intend to introduce the so-called Romeo and Julia clause, which means that sexual relations between young people are allowed when the age gap between young people is within certain limits. What this limit might be and how to determine the difference has not been decided at the moment, it has to be discussed, considered and justified. Among other things, it must also be discussed with young people. It's three years, four years or five years, we don't know at the moment, but that's definitely what we're going to do. In Estonia, the use of young people in sexual relations is currently prohibited by law, so to claim that young people are completely defenseless is not right. They are protected by the fact that they must not exploit influence or trust to engage in sexual relations. Also, all sexual relations that take place with money are prohibited under 18 years of age, and all relations involving violence are prohibited at all. Indeed, it is now the case that young people from the age of 14 may enter sexual relations on a voluntary basis. The definition of volunteering is certainly difficult and it is important to look at this point as to whether influence or trust is being exploited.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U137	Thank you. There is also a point for you to clarify. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U138	Thank you. Minister, thank you for these explanations. I'd like to clarify one thing. On Monday, this topic was also discussed in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu and indeed, after the EKRE had already submitted its substantive draft, others also woke up. As we have heard, the government is planning to start putting together some sort of bill itself. However, the civil servants'explanations gave the impression that the desire to raise the age line would be limited to 15 years of age. I can assure you that this is certainly not what the public and parents expect of you. I can clearly confirm as a mother of three that the minimum should be 16 years of age, but why not 17 years of age? This is the age that legally protects them from sexual exploitation of adults. You said that young people should also be heard, but I would remind you that this law is not intended to restrict the rights of children, but should be called upon to restrict the rights of adults. So I'd ask you not to start running some legal abracadabra about what you said in an interview, but young people might not want it. It is up to us to protect young people and children. What age limit do you support yourself? With what age does your authority intend to submit this bill to the government? We have the very impression that your officials' plan is to stay at 15 years of age.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U139	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U140	I cannot say at the moment what this age will be or what the government is proposing, because the discussions are just starting. It is true that a great deal is said that the age of self-determination should be 16 years of age, and there are also claims that it could be 15 years of age. As I pointed out earlier, according to the survey, young people found it to be 15 years old. To claim that adult people should impose all things on young people by order, I cannot agree with such a position. Our teenagers are quite aware of a wide variety of things. If we allow these special cases to be married at the age of 15 and, at the age of 16, we allow them to be elected, why do we think that they are unable to discuss it at the same age or to express their views on the age of their sexual self-determination? This is the point of discussion, this is the point of reasoning, this is the point of argument. It is important to consider what is the most appropriate age and what is the age to be supported. I also stress that the question of this law cannot necessarily be limited to changing one number, replacing it with a larger one, from 14 to 15 or 16. Raising awareness is also important. That young people and adults around them (teachers, coaches, parents, friends, acquaintances) are aware of what is allowed and what is not allowed, and that if something is happening or they feel that things are not right, they will know where to turn for help. On the basis of a study carried out last year, young people are looking very much for the dissemination of knowledge, namely, how to find out when adults approach them with malicious goals, how to respond to it and where to get help. This information is available on the website of the Ministry of Justice, for example. Unfortunately, general knowledge is perhaps not so strongly rooted and so clear. So just raising the age line, I wouldn't stop at it, but it's also important to spread knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U141	Thank you. And now one more question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U142	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I have heard a number of very disturbing statements here that I think that we do not think that young people themselves are able to say or decide anything about it. Clearly, since you do not have children of your own, you do not know what young people, teenagers think about things or how they think. I'd say if we asked five-year-olds if they wanted candy or steamed broccoli for breakfast, we'd know the answer in advance. Such interviews do not make sense. We're not allowed for under 16-year-olds to buy smoke, buy alcohol, drive a car. Not allowed even before the age of 21 to go to a casino or use a gun. But you see, you can have sex with 40-year-old coaches. You say we still need to think and discuss and involve. For ten years, this debate has been taking place in Estonia; all these arguments have long been chewed out. There's a decision to be made. And here, it seems to me, it's coming up again with the handwriting of your current government, you don't know how to make a decision, you just roll a story. There's no need for a bill from the government, there's no reason for it. Two drafts have been submitted to the Riigikogu: one from our group, which had already been tabled in the previous formation, but was voted down, only by our group at the time, and the other from the Social Democratic Party Group. The content of both drafts is very similar, the wording is different, but the content is similar. The [Social Democrat Bill] also takes into account the fact that there is a certain age difference with specific clauses and, if this age difference is greater, penalties are more severe. Why do you want to stall any more coordination circles and plans to develop if we have two drafts in the proceedings of the Riigikogu? Why are you not prepared to support one of these drafts in the government or to allow the Riigikogu to merge these drafts? Why do you want to make your bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U143	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U144	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! On the one hand, I am completely divided with you. Young people are very different. And just because I don't have children doesn't mean I don't have contacts with young people. I know very clever, very smart and very broad-minded young people who are able to discuss and talk very meaningfully on very complex subjects. I believe most young people are like that. On several occasions, I have also been teaching classes in schools, and I have met young people like that there. My point is that all the decisions that are taken must be justified. I need to know why I support one thing or another or why I choose this or the other. Of course, the Riigikogu can do what it wants with its drafts, that is the freedom of the Riigikogu. As far as your draft is concerned, I believe that this draft lacked the reasoning that I have just referred to. There was no understanding why five or four years were meant to be the age difference. In addition, your draft proposal proposed to tighten up a number of sanctions, which would result in penalties for more serious crimes being less severe than penalties for less serious crimes in substance. For example, when a young person is invited on a date, your bill may give you a harder sentence than for this young person to actually be raped, for example. Once again, I stress that no one thinks it right, at least I hope, apart from the criminals themselves, that there are sexual relations between people of very high age, one of whom is a young person under 18 years of age. In general, this is an abuse of influence or trust. Such sexual relations are prohibited in Estonia and are punishable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U145	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U146	Let's move on to question three. It has been presented by Helir-Valdor Seeder and is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. The subject is crisis measures. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about crisis measures, which are financed or funded by an additional budget. I have before me a list of additional budget measures. I say right away that the Fatherland Party supports the rapid processing of additional budget in the Riigikogu. We understand that an additional budget is needed, especially to manage the crisis. This additional budget, which has been presented by the government, certainly needs to be clarified and improved. This can be improved during the procedure, and I hope that the coalition will be ready to cooperate with the opposition. But my question is why this extra budget is being manipulated. Manipulate with revenue. Indeed, the cost of the second pillar of the pension reform has been estimated at 117 million euros in this additional budget. There is a definite forecast of this that the Ministry of Finance has made. If a precise cost estimate has been made, it is also possible to make a revenue forecast with the same reliability, interrelated and dependencies. Why hasn't there been any revenue here at all? We had a meeting today in the Group with the Minister for Finance who admitted that yes, there are benefits and they are significantly higher than the costs. But he didn't say their size, the number of profits. My question is: why is this being manipulated and why is there such a precedent that the cost side is taken into account, but the revenue side is not reflected at all in the budget? Do you know how big this revenue side is, or do you really not know what to say now about the hundreds of millions of income side that you do not see in this budget? First of all, why can't you see, and second of all, how big is the revenue side that you haven't recorded in this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U148	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U149	Thank you for your question. And thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to hear that we all understand the urgent need to alleviate the damage caused by the crisis and the spread of the virus to people (in the form of wages), to businesses, to different sectors, and I am pleased that this understanding is one. The government actually did a pretty good and quick job of drawing up an extra budget. I don't know if an extra budget has ever been put together so quickly. Tougher restrictions began on 11 March. Three days before that, we launched an additional budget, and the additional budget reached the government's approval about ten days later, on 18 March. Therefore, it took a week for the restrictions to be tightened so that the additional draft budget would be approved by the government and sent to the Riigikogu. The coalition in the Riigikogu certainly awaits constructive discussion and opposition proposals. No one has said that anything is so stoned here that nothing can be changed if there are good suggestions. This budget is, after all, aimed, as I said, at securing people's incomes, maintaining jobs, supporting institutions that have been long-standing in the cultural sector, whether they are theatres, museums or any other institution. There are also measures in other sectors. Now, of this 117 million euros, expenditure that was not included in the state budget. I was in the previous government myself, remember how the budget was put together. It is correctly pointed out that there was no precise knowledge of this at the time. The question of whether the reform will enter into force in this form was not yet resolved at the Supreme Court. In this way, I understood these reasons that it was precisely after that that amount was not provided for in the expenditure of the state budget. That 117 million is the estimated cost. A more precise number will actually be found at the end of March when it is known how many people leave the second pillar and must be paid out. The part of the disbursement that was suspended during the crisis, too, are the State's contributions. As far as I am aware, the Minister of Finance must specify that a more accurate forecast of income can and will be made within the framework of the state budget strategy. The fact that the country receives additional revenue from the second pillar reform is certainly not a secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U150	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U151	Thank you. Dear Minister, You stated my question, but you didn't answer it in the slightest. That's a shame. I am concerned about the practice that is currently being introduced: in the case of revenue from known revenues and costs, if the costs are forecasted and with the same degree of precision it is possible to predict revenue, it is simply not done. This is a very bad precedent for the future, both in drawing up public budgets and in drawing up supplementary budgets. I have a proposal for the government and coalition politicians to make this revenue side public during the proceedings and also to be entered in the [additional budget]. All the more so as the April economic forecast comes at the beginning of April and then the additional budget is still in progress. Then even those arguments that it is not possible to do so on the basis of the economic forecast will disappear. But my second question is a little more specific. This budget for measures can certainly be improved. The ambition to finance rapid tests, for example, is very modest. With regard to their introduction, the Minister for Social Affairs has, for some reason, been very sceptical, and this is probably one of the reasons why such a modest amount has been planned. Funding for sport is also disproportionately low. These things can probably be improved in the budgetary process. But one line is completely missing, namely savings in spending in the public sector and in the government sector. Is there really no external mission, no projected enterprise is missed and no cents of savings in the Estonian country will occur this year, not even in a situation where the Prime Minister has announced that summer will be canceled? But look, there's no event expenses in the country [not missed]. Is that so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U152	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U153	Thank you for your question. First of all, on the previous subject. This 117 million euros on the expenditure side is predictable and it is also placed in reserve because, if the amount is specified, we know how much money actually costs to pay the second pillar payments for the time when the state's payments were suspended. I really believe that revenue forecasts are clearer at the beginning of April, and then it is worth asking the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. At least the initial number of people who have applied and left the second pillar in March will be known by then. Now, about other crisis measures. This is quite a choice of measures. I hope that the most hit places.. and the most hit are the people's wages, as was the spring of last year. Wage support was the one that helped most quickly, and that is why it is important to deal quickly with the additional budget and the related drafts. I'm sure every ministry can introduce you to the details. I know I will meet with the Committee on Monetary Affairs, other ministers will meet, and ministries will prepare more precise distribution keys, prepare draft regulations on how this money will be distributed in the near future. As far as quick tests are concerned, it's an eternal dispute. Heir, you remember how we argued in the previous government. Now the first quick tests are on sale. They do note that they may only be used in the presence of a health care provider. They must have had to sell tests that were in the public domain. As far as I know, the money from the rapid tests was just planned in the Ministry of Education's budget to pass the exams in a perhaps a slightly more reliable atmosphere and to test the children. Perhaps in another area. I'm sure they should be used in the long run. As far as I know, our Medicines Agency or the Health Board will also process these requests for rapid tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U154	Thank you. And now, from the point of view, one further question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U155	Thank you! Dear Minister, I'm a little confused with your political arrogance. I asked you to submit a conditional marketing authorisation for the European Medicines Agency a week ago. You haven't done this in a week. Today you announce that you will give the order and the answer will be prepared. I believe that nothing needs to be prepared here, that there must be a button and a response sent to Members. Otherwise, the situation arises that you do not consider members of the Riigikogu to be anything. I'm waiting for an answer today. Next, you said there would be no coercive vaccination. I am completely puzzled by this view, because it seems to me that one member of the government does not now know what the other member knows. You're acting Prime Minister, you should have a full review. The debate on the "Sustainable Development of State Military Protection" issue, launched yesterday by the Committee on National Defence, was of major importance. There was Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet and Lieutenant General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces. Both speakers reported that they were planning to continue vaccination with the vaccine if they did not wish to do so, and that they had to leave. The terrible thing is that the vaccination programme has also included in the active service. If this isn't a forced vaccination, then what is it? There's a commanding officer in the army to do what he says. Can you make any decisions to put an end to this situation in the military?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U156	Thank you for your question. I'm going to use a little start time to answer the previous questioner about austerity. We will certainly come to the point of austerity, because some of the expenditure will not be paid by the institutions, by the ministries, as the previous questioner pointed out. Rather, the question is where to direct this savings. Are we going to cut it out of the budget, or are we going to agree that an area needs additional funding in all ministries? The previous government agreed that these expenditures were not cut out of the budget, but all ministries had the opportunity to cover their expanding IT cost gap and this savings went there. This year, we must decide in the RES process which way we will do it. And now, good questioner Kalle Grünthal! I am astonished by your enthusiasm for various measures, both in the fight against vaccination and in the denial of the virus. But I don't think that's very relevant here. You'll get the answer. I really don't know why you haven't received an answer. The order was given. My workdays, the schedules are very tight, 15 to 16 hours. It's not easy for any of us here. Rather, we should support each other rather than attack each other, and every politician should be responsible in his or her messages. I do not know what you are asking for with your speeches. I respect all members of the Riigikogu, and I respect your views and beliefs as well as the views of other people. But I do not believe that they are responsible in the current situation and that they will help us cope with the crisis. Rather, they encourage contradictions and, to a certain extent, even conflict. As far as defence and militia are concerned, I don't know any such facts. You referred to messages that were given in the Riigikogu somewhere. I will check them, but I will remind you once again, and I will do so with great conviction and conviction that vaccination in Estonia is voluntary, absolutely voluntary. If someone violates this order, they break the law, and if the law is violated, they must turn to the appropriate bodies. I'm volunteering for a vaccination. Just as last week 30 members of the Riigikogu went to vaccinate, so this week I will be allowed to do so, and I will go to vaccinate. I am likely to receive a vaccine, which has so far received a great deal of criticism, I think that it is often also completely unfounded, that is AstraZeneca.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U157	Thank you. A procedural question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U158	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to draw the honourable minister's attention to the fact that he is now inciting hatred. In essence, it qualifies as a hate speech when it stigmatizes and accuses people who have certain reservations and doubts about certain vaccines and certain procedures. It's not correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U159	Thank you. Kert Kingo, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U160	Thanks for the opportunity. I would like Jaak Aab, who is responsible for the Prime Minister's duties, to answer the questions in substance, not to talk about matters which are off the table. As a result, all members of the Riigikogu who are registered as questioners cannot ask for the opportunity, because the answers, which do not concern the question, are so long and scattered. Please stick to it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U161	Thank you. We have finished addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U162	Let us move on to the next question, that is the fourth. The questioner is Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, and the answer is a member of the Government of the Republic, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab. The subject is sick days. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Good friend Jaak! The Government of the Republic has led the Estonian state to a corona disaster because decisions recommended by scientists were not taken in due time, hesitated, done too little and too late. As a result, today we are in a situation where our infection rates are at the top of Europe and, in fact, at the top of the world. Although, in the end, these decisions have been taken, we see that the very positive improvements hoped for do not yet appear. In this context, I am very upset at your answer to Indrek Island's question concerning the reimbursement of sick days. We know that more than half of the corona monsters we have workplaces. Since we have closed schools and reduced other contacts, their share has decreased. And if we're looking for a way to reduce our contacts by 101⁄2 percent more, that's what a job can do. We know that the virus is brought home from exactly the same work, not grows like a potted plant for Estonian people at home. Consequently, it is completely incomprehensible why this essential measure is not used to compensate patients with corona and their close contacts from the first day onwards for 100% of their remuneration. We know that some people regrettably hide their close contacts because they do not want businesses to be shut down. We know people don't dare go testing because they don't want to lose income. That is a problem for all of us if we do not resolve this issue. This measure will cost only EUR 8 million. Could you please tell me what the government is thinking that this issue cannot be resolved? Money can't be a reason. It is a workable measure; professionals have recommended it; it should be implemented quickly. Please explain why the government has not done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U164	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U165	Thank you, good questioner! A good friend of Evgeny! I'll try to explain it again. In fact, there are very much likely to be good measures that we can implement, and everyone has financial implications. I explained why both the previous government and the current government reached such a solution. The question is, however, that we have already taken this step: there was a man's responsibility in the past three days, now there is only one day. It has financial implications. As regards the financial impact of the proposal you have made, I know that you only want to grant this exception to the COVID-19 patients. I don't think I found any close contacts in your bill, but the government bill has them, and that's the current practice. We simply fix it so that there are no disputes: close contact will receive a sick page on equivalent grounds and will receive sickness benefit if you support this bill in the Riigikogu. If there are other proposals on this subject, the Riigikogu can always make them. After all, the Riigikogu decides. I don't want to argue about percentages. It is likely that those infected by the work group will be a large part of it. Yesterday, we were shown expert reviews and, as far as I know, there were 15% of those who were infected at work. That's a big part, too, I admit, I'm not gonna touch it at all. Yesterday, however, we discussed in the study how to help employers-companies who are in no way able to provide teleworking, and workers need to be on the ground, because production cycles and processes [can not be interrupted]. The Health Board attends these companies and advises them. A clear recommendation is that all work units should have an infection officer from employees or management who will monitor this issue separately and also draw up instructions for their work group on how to keep distance and what procedures to wear masks for. I call on entrepreneurs to turn boldly to the Health Board. The health department is ready to advise. I know that some local authorities have paid attention to this and agree to go with the Health Board to help business-work collectives. I'm not saying your proposal's no good. Anything that reduces contact is good. But there are always certain resources. These resources must be used, such as those of the Health Insurance Fund, to cover the extraordinary costs of hospitals, to deal with viral diseases, etc. We don't have a bottomless bag where we can get more money. We still have to make choices. If that's your choice, make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U166	There is also an additional question for you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U167	Thank you. When it comes to money, I would remind you that the additional budget will be EUR 600 million. However, we are talking about an additional cost of EUR 8 million, which is less than 2%. This is just over 1% of all the money the government has foreseen for crisis measures. And indeed, it helps. It helps people who get lower salaries so that they don't lose their income when they fall ill with corona and that they really stay at home and have the motivation to go test and isolate themselves if necessary. But it actually helps companies, the same small companies, who now have to close their doors when there is a bigger fireplace, and at the same time pay people compensation for sick days. These very regrettable cases, when people have made decisions that are harmful to their own health and actually endanger the health of the entire Estonian population because they cannot afford to lose their income, are regrettable. At a very cheap price, this problem can be solved. It is not a question of us discussing some nuances of social policy in the weather and organising trialogues and discussing what the Liberals think and what the Social Democrats think about what human responsibility is. We're in a crisis situation. It's a disaster where we are. What we are discussing now is that we are creating some kind of job for the commissioners and we are going to start to work on it, Jaak, we urgently need to get this infection under control. Please, guys, get this over with! We cannot approach Parliament by presenting proposals and discussing them for six months. We're awfully busy getting this thing under control to save us the worst and get back to normal life as soon as possible. I really call, good Jaak, for the Prime Minister and other members of the government, who have no experience in the health crisis and in the health sector at all, to try to explain it. This has already led us to disastrous consequences. Please do this thing!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U168	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U169	Thank you for your question. I understand this and, as I said, I do not deny that the realisation of such a proposal can contribute to the improvement of the situation. To what extent, I can't say. I am saying that the biggest step is to take one day's ownership instead of three days' ownership, both for people who are ill and for those who are in close contact. That's a pretty big improvement. No, I'm not saying that there must be some bureaucratic negotiations, but, Evgeny, you know very well that a consensus must be reached in the Health Insurance Board before the money is allocated. After all, we are now also allocating money to the Health Insurance Board and there is an agreement that [sick days] will be reimbursed from the second day on. Similarly, labour market measures, for example, require an agreement in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. It is not quite the case that the government can dictate. If he gives more money, we will certainly consider whether to do such things. But I would remind you that the majority of the public funds allocated last year went to healthcare. It went to the health insurance fund, and it covered a wide range of hospital extra costs, preparedness costs. And so, on a proposal from the government, the current additional budget goes to tests, to vaccines, to cover the extra costs of hospitals, the largest amount that has been set here at all. If there is still a desire to find opportunities for various measures within the framework of the additional budget, even to compensate for the first day of sickness, the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups will be able to make this proposal, seek support for it and decide this matter in the Riigikogu. We relied on the resources the government had on the table at the time. We do not know how long this crisis will continue, and we have also foreseen in the reserve funds that have not been distributed on top of the lines exactly. For example, if necessary, it is possible to pay a salary allowance for the third month in the same amount as was practically decided in the case of March and April, if you confirm it. And there are other measures. There is definitely a border somewhere, but good suggestions can always be considered in the Riigikogu and, if you find support, the Riigikogu will decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U170	Thank you. And now, on the spot, one further question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! It seems that not all the numbers are known to you, and there are also problems with the percentages. I don't have yesterday's information, but I do have yesterday's information: 90 in the North region, 59 in the workplace; 14 in the Western region, 12 in the workplace; 54 in the Eastern region, 27 in the workplace; 40 in the Southern region, 20 in the workplace. Clearly, there are more than half of the jobs, 90% in certain regions. This means that this is a serious problem that needs to be dealt with immediately so that people do not spread the virus at the workplace. We know that these are not jobs where people can work remotely. These are jobs where people have to go to work: sewing factories, oil factories, supermarkets and all the other places where it is not possible to take work home. Why can't we take this small step to support people to stay home without losing a significant part of their already low income? I didn't understand your answer to Evgeni's question or Indreku's question. Why are you so opposed to this small measure, which is a drop in the sea in the context of the entire supplementary budget? This would help save lives, give people the opportunity to stay home not only on paper and as a slogan, but as a real step by the Government of the Republic. Today, you advise us to seek consensus. I also ask this: as Minister of the Centre Party, will you give members of your party here in the Riigikogu the opportunity to support the proposal of the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U172	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U173	Thank you for your question. Very emotional calls. Let me remind you again that the number of monsters doesn't indicate how many people are infected. I'm talking about the number of people infected. These surveys are relatively accurate and are obtained from the Health Board and indicate that 15% of the infected [have received the virus] at work are fresh, yesterday's data. And I'm telling you, I'm not gonna make it a problem. Since other contacts are practically cut through, there is, of course, a great risk of getting this infection at the workplace. In this respect, as I said, we will continue to work to minimise the risks, the contacts. I'm not against your proposal. If you say you want to submit it to the Riigikogu, the relevant laws, including the additional budget, are in the process and the Social Democratic Party Group can make its proposals. If you think that the Minister will give the members of the Riigikogu their duties or tell them how to vote, I assure you that this is certainly not the case. The member of the Riigikogu decides how he or she votes in favour or against one or the other proposal or draft. That's right. So make this proposal to the Riigikogu. It is not worth waiting for the government to come with this proposal itself. Our proposals are already in the Riigikogu, the additional budget is in the Riigikogu, we have acted as quickly as possible, the proposals are on the table. If anyone wants to complement them with good proposals, it is always the Riigikogu that has the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U174	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U175	Let us move on to question five. Martin Helme, member of the Riigikogu, has submitted it and meets Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. The subject is the protection of minors. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U176	Thank you. We can now continue this conversation that we had a few questions ago. To begin with, instead of getting behind a beautiful populist story about how you listen to the opinions of young people, grown-ups should still take responsibility. Grown people need to take care of the safety of their children. We're talking about child safety and protecting children from paedophile attacks. There are two issues. One is raising the same age limit. In my opinion, there must not be a long discussion here on whether to raise the age limit from 14 to 15 years of age. We all understand that, in this case, it is basically an act of eye distortion and imitation, an act of ersats. This is of no substantial use. You can just say we did it. And the same is true when we get stuck in discussions about whether this "Romeo" and "Julia" should be three, four or five years of "replacement" action, these numbers have been mimicked so many times. Whether he comes in four or five years, I think we can finally agree on that. But my question is actually a whole different subject. In the agreement of the previous government coalition, the aim was to create a paedophile register. This has been discussed in Estonia for ten years. During the two years that the previous government was in power, the Ministry of Justice could not even start creating this register from anywhere. I have a question: will this matter be dealt with at the Ministry of Justice under your leadership? If not, is it because it is a political choice, or because you feel that it is in no way feasible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U177	Thank you for your question. I do not agree that the debate is a substitute in order to ensure that decisions are justified. When decisions are taken, they must be justified and it must be understandable why one or the other choice is made. Just when decisions are made on the basis of emotions or simply on the basis of some arbitrary justification, without listening to counter- and pro-arguments, there is a chance that there will be a result that was not really wanted, because there will be no evaluation of possible risks and side effects. I ask once again that if we raise the age limit for sexual self-determination to the age of 16, what should be the view that in certain cases young people are allowed to marry at the age of 15. This issue also needs to be resolved in this case. As regards the question of how the current government intends to deal with sexual violence against young people and children, it is planned to do so by means of actions, concrete steps. They're in preparation, and when they're done, we'll come to the public with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U178	Martin Helme, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U179	Thank you. I still couldn't answer the question of whether the paedophile registry was being set up. Ten years have been discussed, ten years have been the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, ten years have been analysed, planned, coordinated and involved. It must indeed be admitted that the previous government was no better than the previous ones. The Ministry of Justice, led by Raivo Aeg, could not have done so in two years. However, I would still like an answer to the question of whether this register is to move forward, given the current social background, or not, and when it will come out. But now I'm coming up with reasons. I understand that we start a conversation every time with a declaration that we disagree with each other. Well, that's great. One's a liberal and the other a conservative. But in my opinion, it's a pure substitute activity [to deal with the reasoning], it's like being sidetracked from responsibility. Children's safety is an emotional thing; ensuring it is a primitive instinct for all, at least it should be a primitive instinct. It should speak and move everyone. I don't understand what pros and cons we're talking about here. What are these pluses, why don't you count them for us? Right now, crazed old men have the right to bring 14-year-old girls to bed with impunity. What are the pluses we have to consider here? For me, this rhetoric is completely incomprehensible. I do not think there are any pros here, and this [register] has to be done. How long are we gonna talk about this? On the basis of today's Question Time, I understand very clearly that the fact that you are doing nothing is justified by the fact that you still want to think and consider. But what is there more to think about and consider? Are we protecting our children by creating a paedophile register and raising the age limit, or are we not protecting them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U180	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U181	Thank you. Of course we protect our children. There are many ways to protect children. The first thing is that society is aware of what is allowed and what is not allowed, what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. If we look at the rules of the Penal Code and the penalties provided for [for one act or another], it is very clear that it is unacceptable to use sexual violence against minors under 18 years of age. It is also unacceptable to take advantage of your influence, to take advantage of a relationship of trust that is also prohibited. Buying sex is also prohibited, etc. So to say that such things are allowed is lying. Now, whether or not and how we make any decisions or choices. If there are two or three variants and we choose one, two or three of them, then I think it makes sense that we know why we pick one and leave out the other two. I'm not gonna make any decisions that I don't know why I'm doing this or why I'm not doing anything else. And that's why this thing, which exactly comes in, either comes in the register or doesn't come in, depends on what arguments are presented to me. This is why an action plan is also being drawn up on all other aspects, including how to better inform and, where necessary, how to make adjustments to laws and penalties. This is all a point of discussion, and the discussion is not a delay in time, but a process of knowingly reaching a decision. Evidently, we differ in that some make decisions purely emotionally, and some make decisions prudently and rightly. I am the last one, and I do not think that, in making decisions in this way, it can be argued that decisions made in this way do not protect children.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U182	Thank you. And now one more question on the subject. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U183	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Minister of Justice! I think it is important to stress that we are discussing the subject of adult sex with a minor, not the other way around. You're spinning one way and the other way, but the real issue is adult sex with a minor, whether it's allowed or not. Your answers so far show that you seem to favor paedophile relationships. You're here to justify sex relations between a minor and an adult, and you're looking for excuses for raising the age line as minimal as possible. When you answered the questions before, you said that you were still analyzing what was the most appropriate age. My first question is, who is best suited for? The second answer was that raising the age line must be justified. In this regard, too, I ask, from whose point of view is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U184	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U185	Thank you for your question. In the case of raising the age line, of course, the interests of children and the protection of children must be considered first. All these decisions are made precisely in the interests of the children. Now, what you're saying is that I'm protecting pedophiles, of course you can stick to that opinion, it's your freedom, but I think you're wrong and you're putting words and thoughts in my mouth that I certainly don't have. I repeat: if adults, i.e. those over 18 years of age, engage in sexual relations with a person under 18 years of age and take advantage of their influence or trusting relationship with a young person, they are breaking the law. I think this is very unambiguous, and I do not understand how you can think from this that someone is protecting those people who are hurting young people. I'm not defending.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U186	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U187	Let's move on to question six. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Raivo Tamm and meets the Minister of Culture Anneli Ott. The subject is an additional budget. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U188	Good manager! Dear Minister of Culture, First of all, I congratulate you that, like the previous government, this time the government will also decide to support the cultural sector in an additional budget. Cultural activities, including events and performances, have been in a very difficult situation for a year. I hope that the government will look for solutions to keep cultural life as open as possible in order to guarantee people's safety. However, considering the proportion of the additional budget, the legitimate question arises as to what the sport sector should think about the situation. Of the nearly EUR 42 million available for the whole cultural sector, only around EUR 2 million will reach sport. Don't you feel that the Estonian sports people have been a little hurt? Why has the support for sport remained proportionally lower than the additional funding for the bubbles?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U189	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U190	Thank you. Thank you very much for this question. I would like to open up the additional budget measures more precisely. The Ministry of Culture drew up its own proposal for measures for an additional budget on the basis of the experience of the previous spring, at which time the support package of the Ministry of Culture was EUR 25 million. This additional budget has a total grant of EUR 42 million, of which EUR 4150000 for the [sports] sector. Last spring was 1.3 million. It should be taken into account that these amounts are not the only ones going to the sport sector. Through a variety of complementary measures, the sport sector will receive additional support. One important measure certainly is the unemployment fund measure, through which nearly EUR 4.5 million was added to the grants of the Ministry of Culture in 2020. The field of sport is also related to providers of private interest education and activities at the Ministry of Education and Research. There is also youth sport, as well as 4.5 million euros. Now, to be exact. The Ministry of Culture has a total of nine different measures to support sport and culture. Compared to last year, there has been a significant increase in support for private owners' sports objects, which is almost EUR 1 million instead of EUR 400000 in the current package. The hedge fund for major events has also increased: last spring it amounted to EUR 455000, now more than 1 million have been added to it, with a total of EUR 1.5 million. It should also be noted that in fact, in the Ministry of Culture's budget, the so-called basic budget, EUR 800000 is also earmarked for international competitions, but since some of the planned competitions are likely to be cancelled this year, this support can be used for various preparation and for the needs of sport. In addition, the national professional sport grant, which was EUR 1 million in 2019, has now been EUR 3 million for two years in a row. So the subsidies in the sport sector have been increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U191	Specific question, Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U192	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister of Culture, The cultural and sporting sectors stand out in that there are many freelancers and people working under a debt treaty in this area. Can you tell me how many people in the sport sector fit under the additional budget measures and what are the exact criteria for receiving grants? Will the state also plan a separate compensation for the organisers of events whose competitions are not completely cancelled, but will take place in a reduced volume and with a large budgetary deficit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U193	Thank you very much. Yes, even those sports competitions that are excluded or are taking place on a reduced scale will certainly benefit from certain subsidies. We're not just talking about events that have been explicitly cancelled. More precise design and development of support measures is currently underway, based on last spring's experience. Experience at the time has also been used as a basis for the development of current support measures. It is certainly not possible to pay 100% of the aid to [all], but to support directly [the] activities [and organisations] affected by the crisis, for which support is necessary to maintain either the organisation or the event. Now, the same support measure for coaches working under a debt contract is indeed a new measure in this additional budget. It wasn't last year. For this, EUR 400000 has now been taken into account, and here too, the Ministry of Culture has worked with sports organisations from which this input has been obtained. It is a similar support measure to that provided for cultural operators. In the case of cultural operators, this amount is higher because there are more freelancers among them who have a minimum wage. Which [grant] criteria for all these sports and also cultural activities I am talking about are those nine measures [to be applied], which can certainly be given more precise answers in the near future. At the moment, we cannot say such detailed criteria, because negotiations are still under way with all the partners and sub-offices, and we are gathering input on how we should design these support measures, so that they are as well targeted as possible and reach as far as possible those in need. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the sports facilities of private owners mentioned earlier, sports federations, sports federations, master league clubs and county sports federations are also supported. It must also be noted that, of course, there is also the wage subsidy measure for the unemployment fund. Those who do not work under a debt contract but under an employment contract can ask for support from the unemployment fund measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U194	Thank you. And now one more question on the subject. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U195	Thank you. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to express my thanks and respect for your respect for Parliament and your personal presence here. In my opinion, this shows enormous respect for an institution such as the Riigikogu. So once again, thank you very much! But I'm going on with a little more serious issues. My question is this: how are freelancers covered by health insurance? There are quite a number of cultural and creative workers who do not have it. Unfortunately, the Corona also infects them, and in the current crisis, their access to treatment is clearly restricted. Does the supplementary budget also provide for the treatment of these people? Have you raised this problem in the government? Does this issue matter to you at all? What do you want to do to improve this situation if this issue is important to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U196	Thank you very much for this question and for the positive message. Really, I drove from Võru to be in front of this hall. Too bad it's so empty. I hope there won't be any more soon. I'm sure your question is very important. The additional budget for these freelancers is set at EUR 6.7 million. The problem is that they do not have health insurance because they do not receive benefits. These people cannot go to the unemployment fund to apply for unemployment benefit and do not have health insurance. They're completely without social guarantees. When the same law on artists that we introduced yesterday in the Committee on Culture comes to this big hall, we will be in a bit of a hurry so that these subsidies can be introduced as soon as possible. The problem is that, if the law currently in force at the time of emergency did not limit the introduction of additional subsidies, today, together with this additional budget, we will be able to distribute EUR 8.3 million of additional grants so that these people can benefit from social guarantees and minimum wages. Just for information to those who are not aware: this means a six-month guarantee for them, i.e. they are guaranteed both health insurance and income in the amount of the minimum wage. The agreements that have been paid or made so far will end at the end of May and, if this amendment is approved, it will be possible to mobilise EUR 8.3 million and, by means of this, to guarantee social guarantees for those people who do not have them today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U197	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U198	Let's move on to question seven. Riina Sikkut, member of the Riigikogu, will present it and will be answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. The subject is to prevent the spread of the virus. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U199	Dear Minister, I will continue with the issue of sick days, because the answer that the Social Democratic Party may present its proposals in the Riigikogu and that consensus must be sought does not reflect the absolute understanding of what we need to resolve the crisis. There are a number of contacts in society. We have now significantly reduced contacts in schools and entertainment and sports facilities, many people are teleworking. It has been 16 days since the start of implementing these measures, but we can see that the infection has not started to decrease significantly. This means that further action is needed. They may be unfamiliar or complex and expensive for you, but the infection will not be reduced by itself. [It must be done so] that it would not be difficult for a low-paid person to go to the test or to have no asymptomatic motivation to go to work in fear of loss of income as a result of a positive test, and that close contacts would like to register without losing a two-week income for them. This [our proposal] is a crisis measure; it is a measure to prevent the spread of the virus. This is not the place where we need to discuss the extent to which people are liable and whether compensation for 70% of income from the second day is sufficient. It's not enough. We see how many job stations there are, and we know stories about how people cannot stay home because of income loss. It is the responsibility of the government to pay this compensation to control the spread of the virus. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U200	Thank you for asking, Riina, a good member of the Riigikogu! I just sent an e-mail after the report I was talking about. I do not want to reduce in any way the problem of the spread of the virus at the workplace, but relatively verifiable and reliable data suggest that there are 16% of the [job infected], at least on Tuesday. And, as I said, the previous government with a temporary measure and the current government with the proposal to extend this temporary measure [where compensation is paid] from the second day of sickness, has taken a very long step towards improving it [the situation]. If there is a desire to take another step, it can always be done. As I have explained to you, you can make a proposal in the Riigikogu. I understand that the Social Democrats have only focused on one subject and one step. However, what is important about whether a person decides to go to work or not? Yes, compensating for an extra day will certainly help. But besides that, there are other measures, a whole range of measures. On the one hand, there are restrictions, on the other hand, mitigations and subsidies, and on the third hand there is monitoring of these restrictions and measures. There are dozens and hundreds of other measures and steps in addition to this one, and, as I said, we have proposed in this direction in the government as well. When considering whether to channel money there or in the past, it is of course necessary to decide how it would be best targeted and where it would produce [the greatest] effect. I have not said that compensation for sick days will not have an effect, which is why the government is proposing in this direction. But if there is a desire to go further, this can be done in the Riigikogu as an additional proposal. As the latest news tells us about crisis measures, we will also provide additional resources to local governments. The situation of the municipalities is different, and maybe the working groups are different. In Tallinn, the biggest concern is now, as we know, and the city government has decided to introduce this kind of support measure, the local government itself has the possibility to grant various grants, so that, as far as I know, it will compensate for the first day of sickness. During the corona crisis, municipalities have implemented various support measures, offering different services. They are always entitled to do more than the state. If the state takes one step, the municipality can supplement it, and if the Riigikogu thinks that it wants to add something, then it has the right to do so. Personally, I support your proposal, so do not consider me the greatest opponent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U201	Thank you. There is also a point for you to clarify. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U202	Thank you. For me, it is incomprehensible how 15% of people infected at work can be of little importance or of a size class in which action is not worth taking. In a situation where our infection coefficient is 1.1, for example, and we can reduce the infection by 15%, this means that we can reverse the virus and R goes below one. This order of magnitude is very important. If the government is looking for a measure to prevent 80% of contacts and the spread of infection, it is obvious that [it will not work because] there is no such measure, unless we want to isolate people one by one, in order to reduce all forms of social activity. These steps, where we can move even 5% or 15% of goods, are very important. Now, about this discussion in the Riigikogu and the agreement with the social partners. In autumn, too, there was a draft of social democracies' sick days and generous compensation in the Riigikogu, and then there were exactly the same comments that we would agree with the social partners and then see. Of course, social restructuring must be agreed with the social partners, but at the moment we are not talking about long-term social sector reform, as was the case with the second pillar [voluntarily], for which the opinion of the social partners was somehow not heard, but about crisis action. I am talking about a measure that could be implemented from 1 April with government reserves. I am not talking about what Tallinn City Government allows some of its employees, but about the need to put a stop to the spread of infection. It is the responsibility of the government and it is possible for the government to motivate people to behave appropriately with benefits. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U203	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U204	Good Riina! The answer is the same: we have done this, we have taken a pretty big step. Once again, since the second day of sickness, compensation has contributed a great deal and will continue to contribute. The City Government of Tallinn does not pay its employees but the residents of Tallinn this additional support, as much as I understand. I don't know the exact mechanism, this news is fresh. No measure is likely to be able to bring the infection rate to zero at the workplace of 15%. But all the steps that the government has taken have been positive. This same payment of sickness benefit since the second day has certainly had a positive effect; people no longer have to fear a very high level of income reduction. Now, if we go further in this direction, I don't know exactly how to predict it, but the number of people infected at the workplace would definitely decrease by a few percent. It's not possible to take it one way or another, but it's a separate story. I very much hope that there is no one magic wand, nor is it on this subject, that this practice is increasingly being used, that the Health Board, in cooperation with the municipalities, is mapping the concerns of the collectives in the workplace and the possibilities of implementing these measures and reducing contacts. I'm sure we'll continue to do that. As regards the situation that I have not been able to talk about today, the whole situation of infection and pandemic, I, too, am not very optimistic that it will end immediately. We have probably reached the plateau, as experts say, and we very much hope that the infection will no longer grow. It wasn't much more to hope for at first. First, the relatively large increase had to be stopped, where the infection rate R had already reached about 1.3. It has now shrunk, being a little over one, which means that there is virtually no growth. If we follow the restrictions, these simple rules, and try to reduce our contacts, we can hope that the coefficient of infection will decrease in the coming weeks or months. After all, the goal is for R to be at least 0.8 and for the infected to be about 500 a day. This is not the final goal. Let's do it with all our measures. A few positive trends can already be highlighted. Infections have decreased among older people, over 80 years of age and also over 70 years of age. I'm sure there's an effect on vaccination. The number of all cases in nursing homes has decreased.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U205	And now one more question from the floor. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U206	Thank you. Dear Minister, Right now, you are the replacement of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. I understand you have quite a burden on your shoulders, because the Prime Minister must know absolutely everything, because he is in charge of the whole process that is going on here. In a sense, I give you some credit for the courage to take such responsibility, because if we look at the government of Kaja Kallas and the activities of the Reform Party, I am not talking about the current period of illness, then Kaja Kallas never showed up. There was a worldless riot about why it did not come to Parliament to report. It's kind of strange to me. In fact, I also take my hat off in front of Jüri Ratas, because he was the person who informed all members of the Riigikogu that his phone was open for 24 hours. He was always in the picture and told me what he had to say. In this sense, there is a colossal difference between the activities of these two governments. I understand that the problem is complex and you may not be able to master all the issues as detailed as you have said here today. But I don't think that's an excuse to shirk the answers. People are waiting for answers about what is missing. In this regard, I challenge you to meet here in front of the cameras next week at the time you choose, so that I can ask you specific questions. And I also expect specific answers from you, I don't care about political eloquence. Please let me know if you're okay with this right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U207	Thank you, good questioner! If there's a media show going on, I don't know if I'm in. But with you, Kalle, I'm always willing to talk and answer all your questions. As regards whether the Prime Minister or his replacement must know everything just referred to what was going on in the National Defence Committee and somewhere else, really, no one can know all these details. Thanks for letting me know, let's find out. And as far as leadership is concerned, at least I have this message that the Prime Minister should probably be back tomorrow on his duties and then you can ask him. As Minister of Public Administration, I can answer all my questions about my field, but more generally, about the responsibility of the government. What can I say? Thanks for the ride! I'm ready to talk to you anytime, but I'm not ready to do some media show.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U208	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U209	Let us move on to the eighth question put by the member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo. She is answered by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, a member of the government, and the subject is the rule of law. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Justice! Article 4 of Directive 2016/343 of the European Union, which strengthens certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at a trial in criminal proceedings, with a deadline of 21 December 2020 for transposition into Estonian law, concerns public statements of guilt. It requires Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that, as long as the fault of the suspect or accused person has not been established by law, public statements made by the authorities or decisions taken in criminal proceedings, other than those deciding on the matter of guilt, do not refer to the person in question as guilty. In Estonia, however, we can already read in the media on a regular basis statements by the leading state prosecutor, the state's attorney general and the director of the defence police, which refer to the defendant as a certain culprit, such as the case of Kajar Lember, Eveli Vavrenjuki, Valvo Semilarski, Marti Kuusik and Kersti Kracht. How has Estonia transposed the principles of remedies set out in Article 10 of this Directive, according to which Member States, including Estonia, must ensure that suspects and accused persons have effective remedies when their rights under this Directive are violated? What are these remedies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U211	Thank you for your question. You will repeat the same question that you also asked in writing and requested an answer. As was said in the reply to you, according to the Estonian Constitution, it is impossible that a person who has not been convicted should be considered guilty or called guilty. If this is done, there will be penalties, and a person who feels guilty before he has been convicted can go to court. All these paragraphs and references are in the reply sent to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U212	Thank you. Additional question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U213	Thank you. I note that on 18 February 2021 the European Commission published the decision on the infringement procedure against Estonia, after having found that there are shortcomings in Estonia regarding public statements of guilt. The European Commission has therefore found that the legal remedies provided for in Estonian law are not sufficient. This means that, in fact, public statements by public authorities refer to certain persons prematurely or incorrectly as persons guilty. Please tell me how specifically the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Defence Police Department have been responsible for the statements that have been published in the media and have been prematurely incriminating to those mentioned in my [previous question]. What has been the specific responsibility and how has it been applied?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U214	Thank you. As indicated in the written reply sent to you, Estonia disagrees with the Commission's opinion that we have not taken into account the aspects mentioned in the directive. Our laws, starting with the Constitution, provide for penalties if someone is called guilty when he has not yet been convicted. If such a thing happens, the perpetrator can be punished. I do not have any reference at this time to the existence of [such infringements].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U215	And now one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U216	Thank you. Dear Minister, You are now the most important and wisest person in the Ministry of Justice. You have come up with such an issue as hate speech, let's say, in a simplified sense, hate speech, and you defend it very diligently on several media channels, saying that it is very necessary and that without it there is no way. However, professional lawyers take the opposite view, [they say] that in fact we have already solved the problem in the reserve of this norm. Well, I don't know. I mean, you're smarter than all these lawyers. I ask you such a simple question. In the context of this hate speech, explain your vision in terms of the logical nature of subsumation, i.e. based on the facts of life and compare it with the abstract composition of the norm.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U217	Thank you for your question. I'll make a correction first: we're talking about hate speech, not hate speech. Hostile speech means inciting hatred against someone on the basis that he belongs to a group, such as a certain nationality, following a certain religion, having certain political views, or having a certain sexual orientation. Inciting hatred and hatred against such a group is punishable in accordance with the Estonian Constitution and it is clear that it must also be punishable by law. Unlike you, I know a lot of lawyers and other people who are very professional in this field and who have indicated that this is not a very well-defined thing in Estonia, which is why it is possible and perhaps necessary to clarify this wording in order to make it unambiguous. I would like to remind you that Estonia has committed itself to the adoption of the European Union Framework Decision. [We did so] along with other countries of the European Union that we can consider to be our own friends. Currently, it has been pointed out that Estonia and Romania are two countries with shortcomings in the implementation of this Framework Decision. All other countries have succeeded. It is our job to see if we really have any shortcomings, and if there are any shortcomings, to make the necessary corrections. As I said, I have spoken to a number of people who, in my opinion, are highly competent, top-level law-knowing Estonians, right-knowing people, and they say that certain corrections are likely to be necessary. And that is exactly what we intend to do. The way to do this is the place of debate. [It must be done so] that we comply with our constitution and also comply with the agreement that we once concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U218	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U219	Let us move on to question nine. It has been presented by Tarmo Kruusimäe, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Maris Lauri, a member of the Government of the Republic. The subject is raising the age limit for sexual self-determination. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U220	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! On 11 March, known to us as the International Day for the Remembrance of Victims of Terrorism, you said that today our laws are sufficient to prevent such cases of [the sexual exploitation of minors]. But now you've obviously changed your mind. What are the main arguments that led you to change your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U221	Thank you for your question. I haven't said we're okay, but there's been a cover in the law for cases like this. I understand that you are referring to the situation that has emerged here in recent weeks and to other cases where adult people have exploited young people. I repeat what I have said many times in this Question Time: when an adult takes advantage of his influence or trust in a young person under the age of 18 and engages in sexual intercourse with him, not to mention that this relationship is violent, Estonian law is punishable. The discussion is about whether the age of young people's self-determination, which is now at the age of 14, should be raised and how much it should be raised. There have been a lot of different opinions here, and really, society is obviously by now, at least I feel that it has become the understanding that this age line needs to be raised. Whether we raise it to 15 or 16 is the point of discussion. We need to consider strengths and weaknesses, which option is better and more correct. However, it is not enough that this matter is decided only by adults, but, in my opinion, the opinion of young people must also be sought in order to have a common understanding, because this issue concerns young people. I am convinced that young people are smart and intelligent enough to understand the substance and problem of the question. It should certainly be accompanied by a decision on the relationship between young people that when and what age difference relationships are acceptable in society. Once again, yes, this issue is legal, penal, but it is also very much a question in society and how we look at the way adults interact with young people. When we look at these public events, it has been pointed out on several occasions that adult people have so-called looked aside. This is definitely not good. I think this is a discussion that society needs to have in general, because the penalties may be whatever it takes, but when people look away, these penalties are of no use.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U222	A further question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U223	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! The current Penal Code protects children under 10 years of age, so let's talk about the relationship between young people. A little aging Romeo, already studying in high school, and soon young Julia will be studying in the first degree of primary school, are the sexual ones between them currently tolerated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U224	In this case, when a young person has reached the age of 14 and a sexual relationship is voluntary, it is permissible. It is clear that this is where the discussion is: what should be the age difference between young people so that we can consider their relationship normal and acceptable? Any violent relationship, any extortionable, whatever form of forced sexual relationship is punishable, including between young people. Unfortunately, according to the polls, a large number of young people aged 15 to 16 have been exposed to situations where their own peers, or slightly younger or older than their own, especially young people who are a little older, [after] having a violent sexual relationship or a sexual relationship. So this is not only a problem between adults and young people, but also a problem between young people themselves. It is certainly very important here that young people know how to behave and what is allowed and what is not allowed. [They should know that] if things go wrong or move in a direction they shouldn't, where to get help, and if anything has happened, where to turn. The most important thing is maybe the children's helpline 116111, where to call if anything happens. Even those who see that something happens can call there, let alone go to the police. Young people may not always understand what is happening on their own, but outsiders may notice. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U225	And now one more question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U226	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to, and to point out, the delicious double standard you have, Minister, when it comes to the European Union's command tables. When it comes to the issue of presumption of innocence, you're just putting a fish face on your head, but when it comes to censorship law, I stress that there is no hate speech or hate speech law, but there is a censorship law, you find that you must be eager to deal with precepts, even if it is possible to respond exactly the same way that we do not have any problems. I come back to the same key theme that we have been through several times today. I don't understand why you keep telling me if it's a violent sexual relationship. This is currently punishable in Estonia. We may, of course, make the punishment stronger, but it is already punishable, and indeed it is also punishable by the sexual exploitation of a person by virtue of influence. But we're not talking about it. Our draft, what we want to achieve, is that older people under the age of 16 simply must not have sexual relations, whether they are as non-violent or voluntary and out of great love as we all understand that a 14-year-old person is still a child and it is up to us to protect the child. So let me ask, let us not talk about violence, let us not talk about influence [use], but about the fact that it is simply not allowed to do so for a certain age in younger people. I also have a question about the same influence [of use]. Is this football coach gonna get a criminal charge or not? Have you talked to the DA's office about it or not? Three to eight years of prison sentence can be imposed for this act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U227	Thank you. I am certainly not saying whether or not a person is guilty of this particular case, precisely because the investigation is still ongoing. I think you know the investigation is underway. I also stress that this is also a question of mistrust for children and young people under 18 years of age. It is precisely the abuse of trust that occurs most in adult people who sexually attract young people, often creating a situation where young people think that they agree voluntarily with intercourse. If they're too young, 14 years old, they don't know where the border is. They may not realize that they are being exploited. If we raise the age of young people's sexual self-determination, then there is a chance that by becoming a year or two older, young people already have experience and the knowledge that sexual advances of a much older person are not allowed and that there are certain risks. But in order for young people to understand it, raising the age line is not enough, but the young also need knowledge. This means that young people need to know that such people exist and that such steps are being taken. He needs to know how to take care of himself, how to resist such attempts, and where to turn for help before something happens. And if something really happens, he's got to get help. Just because we're setting a higher age line, some perverted-type people might be a little distracted, but they're just gonna wait for the next age line. The question is still very much too, so that young people are aware of the dangers and are able to respond to them and avoid them. It is also [important] that bystanders are also aware of such threats and that limits are set that prevent such situations from occurring. Once again, you have the freedom to say that this is a censorship law. But it's not censorship law. You're also free to think it's a two-faced matter. But it's not like that. I could also say exactly that you are two-faced about European rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U228	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions and all the members of the Government for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U229	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the 9th working week session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. As always before the implementation of the sitting, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please! First Raimond Kaljulaid. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U230	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and myself, I am handing over the draft amendment to the Building Code. The draft itself is very short. Its purpose is to repeal § 97 (6) of the Building Code, which obliges the owners of the properties to maintain the sidewalk bordering the property and to ensure, among other things, winter slippage on the sidewalk bordering the property. The walkways are part of the public space, but from year to year we are forced to admit that the current arrangement does not ensure that the safety of all road users and pedestrians is guaranteed in our municipalities. The elderly are particularly vulnerable to slipperyness. But, of course, it concerns everyone, not taking care of the sidewalks, including parents with a baby carriage. The problem is very serious. In drawing up this draft, we asked, among other things, the North Estonian Regional Hospital. In January of this year, 218 cases of injuries involving ice and snow were referred to the emergency department. I repeat: within one month, in January, 218 times, 25 times the fall resulted in a head injury. People are breaking their heads on the streets of Estonian cities, broken their bones, and no one has done anything about it. As a result of the amendment of the construction code, municipalities should take on the task of maintaining the pavement and ensuring the safety of people, and ensure comfortable conditions for all road users to travel. The draft has been delivered electronically. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U231	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and on the other side of the screen! I will present an inquiry to Mrs Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science. It is signed by the members of the Riigikogu Jaak White and Helle-Moonika Helme. I'm going to report an inquiry that we've titled "Organizing and breaking the law at the Ministry of Education and Science. " As we all know, the previous Minister of Education had to resign because of the corrupt acts he committed as Minister of Education. He's already being dealt with by law enforcement. But we would ask Minister Liina Kersna how certain activities and investigations have taken place in her office following the appearance of irregularities and irregularities, which have been clarified and how far all these things have come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U233	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U234	[[Remote connection]] On behalf of myself and a member of the Riigikogu, Helle-Moonika Helme, I am honoured to present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research. This question relates to the need to resolve the deep crisis of teacher follow-up. We want to know if the Ministry is serious about this. The inquiry consists of three questions. The first question concerns so-called inclusive learning, and the question is whether this highly frustrating model of students and teachers is sustainable in the Minister's opinion. With the second question, we want to know what changes are planned in the career model of teachers, and with the third question, why teachers' most numerous umbrella organisations, namely teachers' associations, have not been properly involved in solving teacher secondary growth issues. This means why good practices on inclusion have not been implemented. That's it. An inquiry has been sent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U235	No more wishes have I accepted one draft and two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu Board. Further processing is decided in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U236	89 members of the Riigikogu registered, currently missing 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U237	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item on today's agenda is the third reading of the draft law 291 amending the law on enforcement proceedings initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law on bailiffs and related amendments to other laws. I will open negotiations, the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak. Please! That's not what you want. Since this is a draft requiring a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, it is also appropriate to have a salikutsung. Can we go to the vote? No objections. Ladies and gentlemen, The commission has proposed a final vote of 291 on the draft. Elik will make a final vote before you to amend the law on enforcement proceedings initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law on bailiffs and, in this connection, the law amending other laws 291. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U238	There were 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U239	Today's second item is the third reading of the Bill 296 on Amendments to the Chemicals Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The commission has proposed a final vote, but before that, the political groups will be able to speak. That's not what you want. Therefore, we shall proceed to the final vote. I assume we can do this without a hall call. Thank you! Good Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft Act 296 on Amendment of Chemicals Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U240	There were 90 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U241	On the third item, the second reading of the Act amending the Anti-Corruption Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, namely the GRECO recommendations and the Public Restrictive Declarations of Interest of the Heads of Security Authorities 323. The second reading is presented by Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U242	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, So much to remind you that this draft has two important substantive objectives. Firstly, when approving this draft by the Riigikogu, it is also obliged to submit declarations of interest by political advisers of ministers and Prime Minister. And the second point in the draft is that the declaration of interests of the Defence Police Department and the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate will not be made public. The Constitutional Commission discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 16 March 2021. All members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs participated and were invited by the Head of the Analysis Department of the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, Mari-Liis Sööt, and the Legal Adviser to the Staff Policy Department of the Ministry of Interior, Svetlana Master. First Toomas Kivimägi noted that the deadline for submitting amendments was 9 March and five amendments were tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. And before we went to the debate on the amendments, there was a small discussion carried out by Commissioner Paul Puustusmaa, who admitted that the obligation to make a declaration of interests to political advisors of ministers is due to the recommendations made by GRECO, but the recommendations made by GRECO do not say anything about the fact that the declarations made by the heads of the security authorities, i.e. the head of the Kapo and the Head of the Department of Foreign Intelligence, should not be public. Paul Puustusmaa also mentioned that the amendment concerning the non-disclosure of the declaration of the head of a brave institution is contrary to § 12 of the Constitution. It is recalled that § 12 of the Constitution says that everyone is equal before the law. I will now go to the specific amendments. Amendment 1. Its content is that, contrary to the original draft, the declarations of interests of the heads of the security authority should still be disclosed to two people, the Director-General of the Defence Police and the Director-General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate. Mr Puustusmaa explained that the EKRE did not agree with the amendment that the declaration of interests of the Head of the Security Authority would not be made public. This is contrary to § 12 of the Constitution, which says that everyone must be treated equally. Toomas Kivimägi noted that in this case it is important which groups are compared and who should be treated equally. In accordance with the applicable law, declarations of interests of officials of security authorities shall not be made public and the principles of disclosure of declarations of heads of security authorities shall be equated to those of officials of the same authorities. There was a vote and Amendment 1 was in favour of 2 and 5 against, with 1 abstention. Kalle Grünthal and Paul Puustusmaa voted in favour of this amendment; Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobenik, Oudekki Loone, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship were opposed; Lauri Läänemets was neutral. Amendment 2 was of a somewhat technical nature, which is why I am not going into the content here. The Commission decided: this proposal was in favour of 2, 6 against, with 0 abstentions. Kalle Grünthal and Paul Puustusmaa were in favour, and the other members of the committee opposed this amendment. Amendment 3 was the result of [the presumption] that Amendment 1 was not supported by the Commission, the author of which requested that the declaration of interests of the Defence Police Department and the Director-General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate also be public. The content of the third amendment was that in this case a number of other parties' declarations of interests should not be made public either. This amendment refers to subsection 13 (1) (1) of the Anti-Corruption Act. A few examples of whose declaration of interests should not be public: a member of the Riigikogu, the President of the Republic, a member of the Government of the Republic, a judge, etc. Mr Puustusmaa explained that if it were decided that the declarations of certain high officials would not be made public, the EKRE proposed equal treatment for all state top managers mentioned in §13 (1) (1) (1) of the Anti-Corruption Act. Therefore, the proposal proposes that all persons referred to in this point would have been treated equally and their declaration of interests would not be disclosed. Mr Grünthal asked during the debate on this amendment how the representatives of the ministries justify their claim that the non-disclosure of the declaration of the heads of security authorities is in line with the principle of equal treatment enshrined in the Constitution. To this, the Master of Svetlana replied that he did not understand how non-disclosure of the declaration of the heads of security institutions violates the principle of equal treatment. Rather, the current anti-corruption law gives unequal treatment to the heads of the security authorities and other officials of the security authorities, as the declarations of the officials of the security authorities are currently not public, but the declarations of the heads of these authorities are public. It went back to the vote, with 2 in favour of this amendment, 6 against, with 0 abstentions. By Kalle Grünthal and Paul Puustusmaa and against the other members of the committee who participated in the meeting. Amendment 4 was again due to the fact that, if the declarations of the heads of security authorities are still not made public, the number of persons whose declarations are not made public should be further extended. According to this proposal, in addition to those I listed for the previous amendment, [would be added to the list], for example, a member of the local government council, a member of the rural municipality or city administration, etc., a number of other officials. This list would be even wider. And once again, the justification is that they must all be treated equally. And there was another vote. This amendment was adopted by 2 votes to 5, with 0 abstentions. By Kalle Grünthal and Paul Puustusmaa, the other members of the committee who took part in the committee meeting were against. And now another amendment by the EHRE, Amendment 5. Its content was that the Act should include in addition the list of persons who are obliged to submit a declaration of interest, including the Vice-Chancellors. It is important to note here that Mari-Liis Sööt of the Ministry of Justice commented that several ministries are currently required to submit a declaration of interest to the Deputy Chancellors. The Head of Government has the right to request the submission of a declaration and its obligation can normally be imposed by the Secretary-General of the Ministry or the Minister. The Head of Government shall assess the risks of corruption associated with each post and may accordingly require a declaration. The Vice-Chancers are currently excluded from the relevant provision of the Anti-Corruption Act, from the list of high officials, because the duties of high officials derive from the law, but the duties of Vice-Chancers derive from the respective basic regulations and can vary widely between ministries. Toomas Kivimägi said that he did not find it logical that there is indeed a situation today where the Chancellors of the five ministries have given the Deputy Chancellors the obligation to submit a declaration of interest, but there is no such obligation in the rest of the ministries. The question arises as to whether the Vice-Chancellors in different ministries have such different competences. This amendment by the EERE was also put to the vote and note that this proposal was supported by 7 votes to 0, with 0 abstentions. And since there were more members of the Commission here earlier, I read that Kalle Grünthal, Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Paul Puustusmaa, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship were in favour of this proposal. Finally, procedural decisions were made. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 March 2021. The decision was consensual. Secondly, to propose that the second reading be stopped, the decision again consensual. Third, when the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading and that the final vote be taken on 7 April 2021. The decision is also consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U243	Good Commissioner, there are also questions for you. Jevgeni Ossinovski will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U244	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear waitress, good Thomas! Given that political corruption is a pretty big sang bomb on the foot of a new government, the fight against corruption became a declared priority for the new government union. Several months have passed, and the impression is that they are dealing with a nice tilulilu: a bit of a declaration, some sort of action plan. But those things that are actually effective, for example, regarding the extension of the mandate of the ERJK, which has been standing in your committee for a long time, are not really an initiative on these issues, are not a forceful undertaking. Can you tell me if it's because the coalition partner of the Central Party doesn't want to deal with it or because the Minister of Justice is undesirable in this regard? Why are we not continuing to discuss these major substantive issues in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U245	Thank you. Good Evgeny, I can assure you there's nothing to worry about. In the knowledge of Minister of Justice Maris Laurit [I am confident] that he will undoubtedly take the matter very thoroughly. And in fact, by this day, a whole series of things outside this bill have already been covered. For example, the same anti-corruption action plan that the Government of the Republic failed to confirm in the previous coalition for some reason. But we fixed this mistake and confirmed this development plan. I mean, the Government of the Republic did this, and actually it was a few days ago to read in the paper that there were also rules of lobby. But indeed, these lobby rules do not concern members of the Riigikogu. This was repeatedly emphasised and done by the government, not by Parliament in its decision or by law. So that's why he didn't touch it. And there is no doubt that the improvement of the work of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee and perhaps the granting of additional powers to them will continue to be on the agenda. So in this sense, there is no reason to believe that today's coalition has taken its foot off the gas pedal. On the contrary! But really, let's give Maris Lauri, the Minister of Justice, a little time to get into these issues. These are not questions and topics for one or two days. It is necessary to discuss them very thoroughly and to consider them, and I think that the vast majority of these drafts, which, Mr Evgeny, you also referred to, will still arrive in Parliament in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U246	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U247	I am asking the same question that I asked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to which I did not actually receive a substantive answer. I mean, it concerns the non-disclosure of declarations of interests of security personnel. I am also referring to the fact that this position, which developed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is that it prevents us from providing information to foreign intelligence or third countries that are interested in our individuals, that is ridiculous. Foreign Intelligence even knows a lot of things about us in that buffet. That's not an argument, that's why we shouldn't hide them, say, from them. Here's the question. Please state the reason or principle why the Constitution does not apply in this context. I mean, I didn't get that particular answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U248	Thank you, dear Kalle Grünthal. The answer is, in fact, exactly the same as the one you are pressing for, that is, Article 12 of the same Constitution on equal treatment. Now, the question really is whether we mean that we treat members of the Riigikogu equally, for example, and the Director General of the Defence Police and External Intelligence Board, or whether we treat equally, on the basis of the keyword "state secret." If the keyword "state secret" is used, you are well aware that no declarations of interests for defence police officers or foreign intelligence officers are actually made public today. For the same reason it's a state secret. Their composition is a state secret, such a peculiar keyword is about this matter in the law. And now we are actually equating both the Director General of the Defence Police and the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate with their officials for the purpose of submitting a declaration of interests. This is the same equal treatment. I believe that, in fact, until today, they have not been treated equally. Due to the fact that their composition is a state secret, I do not believe that the same § 12 of the Constitution should actually make public their declaration of interests. And secondly, I admit and share the view that principles are important and important. But on the substance side, I find it very difficult to understand why we are creating so much discussion about the declaration of interests of two people. I agree that the principles are important, but on the substance, it really only concerns two people. It is also important to note that these [declarations] are not invisible. The Special Committee against Corruption of the Riigikogu also has access to the declaration of the interests of these two persons. So in this sense, it cannot be said that Parliament, for example, cannot supervise or control them. If there are any suspicious things there, of course there is a way to respond to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U249	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U250	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is extremely regrettable that the Constitution does not apply to everyone in Estonia and that the temple of state secret is also used where it certainly does not have to be used. But my question is directly to you: what is your opinion, perhaps the Director General of the Defence Police and External Intelligence Directorate should not qualify at all for people whose declarations of interests should somehow be concealed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U251	Thank you, Mr. Asker! I say once again that, for me, the question raised is incomprehensible in the sense that I believe that you accept that the declarations of interests of both the Defence Police Department and the Foreign Intelligence Service officials are not already public today, and for the same reason that this composition is a state secret. And if we say that, in their case, state secrets are the reason why declarations of interest are not made public, then how are we now suddenly reaching a conclusion, just as the heads of these institutions are not subject to state secrets. Well, quite the contrary, I would like to say. Rather, one might think that a declaration of the interests of an official there might be public. But you're turning that the declarations of interests of the Defense Police Department and the Foreign Intelligence Service officials are not public, but as their leaders should be. I certainly cannot agree with that. And once again, ladies and gentlemen, all the political groups of the Riigikogu are represented in the Special Committee on Corruption. Ask your colleague, I apologise for not knowing who is on your side in this committee, take an interest, and you will find out what is in this declaration. I believe that you trust your colleague in the sense that, if there are any doubts, it is certainly possible to respond to this. So I certainly do not question the competence, competence and sense of justice of the heads of our two security agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U252	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U253	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Was it also under discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, for example, the chairmen of parliamentary parties, the leaders, and the secretaries-general, if they are not Members of Parliament or members of the government, should also be obliged to submit declarations? There is the risk of corruption and the risk of dealing with influence, I dare say, even greater than the ordinary member of the Riigikogu, or a simple member of the party, who sits in this Parliament. Has that been the subject? If not, what is your opinion, could we discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U254	Thank you, very respectable questioner. The simple answer is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not raise this issue, including by the representative of your party, who we have very active and very hard-working and very energetic. However, this issue was not raised. There was no amendment to this from the Isamaa Group. So really, that's not what we discussed. But, of course, this is an issue that can be discussed in the future. Such cases certainly exist whether they qualify or not. However, one such general attitude has been that, in fact, the circle of persons who are obliged to make this declaration of interests should not be very large. In fact, before the last amendment to the Anti-Corruption Act, there were 30,000 persons who had to submit a declaration of interest. Well, it seems a very dubious country where so many people have to make a declaration of interest. Following these changes, the number of these persons has been in the order of 5000, namely 5100 persons who were obliged to submit a declaration of interest in the register as of the previous year. A good colleague, Mr Kallas, I hope that I quote him correctly, that we do not have to plead guilty in advance, just as we are not trusted, and that we already have to prove our level of responsibility in advance, that is, in a sense, a bit of mistrust. So it is certainly not justified to spread the circle of persons making declarations of interest in the principle. But, of course, there aren't many party leaders. In the case of Vice Chancellors, the same issue was also raised. If we bring in a number of persons who have to submit a declaration of interest, I actually think that if it finds support from the hall, then that means an additional 10/15 persons who have to submit a declaration of interest. Some of the Vice Chancellors are already presenting. And the other side, which concerns the law as a whole, when we also take the political advisors of ministers, they are in the total range of in the range of 40. There are so many political advisors from ministers and the Prime Minister, according to one piece of work. This is not a very large number compared to 5000. But, of course, we are open to everyone who wants to come to the debate on this proposal by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We'd love to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U255	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U256	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm listening and wondering what you were even discussing. Corruption is extremely creative; rather, it should have included the Committee on Culture. No matter what and where we define [something], it still turns out that it can be handled differently. Well, that's a question of interpretation. But my question is: what benefits will the members of the Riigikogu benefit if we allow two persons that declarations of their interests do not become public? Is there any good candy for us Members of Parliament, for example, that two months a year should not be presented and would go undercover like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U257	Thank you, Reverend Asker! It is obvious that neither benefits nor candy are the principles in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, according to which we are discussing possible amendments to the law. We certainly don't want the slightest benefit from it. It is a question of a signal to society as a whole. And indeed, as there have been signs, and not only signs, but also in practice there are a number of examples that this is a problem in Estonia. If you compare the ratios by looking at the world, maybe that's not the biggest problem. But in a small country, there are certainly also isolated cases that are quite strong. And a second point: it would be very easy if we solved all the problems of corruption with one bill. Unfortunately, life is much more complex and diverse, so it is not possible to do so. I really admit that, on the one hand, it is positive that this bill came very quickly. But the other way around, he's touching one of those narrow areas. In society, there was quite a serious public response to the issue of political advisors from ministers, and as it seemed topical, the minister moved very quickly and brought this draft to this Chamber. To sum up all the problems, it solves, I don't know, 5% or 7% of all problems related to corruption. Indeed, I do not want to say that this is the most central and most important problem, but at the same time it was a topical issue and, if I am not mistaken, this draft was also discussed during the previous government coalition. I could be wrong. But in any case, the speed with which this bill reached this hall must be acknowledged. At the same time, the speed charge is that the bill concerns a narrow area, not all things have been dealt with in its entirety. But once again, one law certainly cannot eliminate corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U258	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U259	Thank you. I think Helir-Valdor Seeder touched on a very important subject. In fact, these corruption-related issues should be looked at much more widely and, in fact, the number of these declarations should not be 30000, as I think you said, but it should be applied to everyone. Because it is precisely at a lower level that these hidden acts of corruption occur very often. In order not to remain naked, I would mention that there was a case in Harku parish that required the citizen to transfer some material values as a representative of the company and, if he does not do so, he, as a natural person, will not be subject to an act until such transfer has been carried out. So let's say, people are being pressured illegally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U260	Thank you, Mr Kalle Grünthal. I congratulate you on your very active participation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But just to clarify, there were 30,000 before the last changes were made to the anti-corruption law. It was a bit of a second extreme. At the moment, the "declaration of interests" register has obliged persons of the order of 5100, so that the direction was actually taken as downward. And I do think that in principle, this direction could still be down, rather than going back to that 30,000. Otherwise, we are, as it were, questioning that individuals may not be honest if we extend this circle of persons very much. It is understandable that the members of the Riigikogu and the members of the government and the members of the municipal councils and so on there is no question of this, but I will say once again that the current direction is still not to increase the number of persons who have to submit a declaration of interest. A separate issue, of course, is the benefit of these declarations. It's still a matter of its own, isn't it? And since this efficiency may not be very high, let's say frankly, in this case, to expand this circle to a significant extent, it may not have a very large result.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U261	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U262	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm coming back to the Special Services Chiefs' declarations. We have a general secretive mania in Estonia; we have at least an AK on each document, if nothing else can be put on it. This is totally maniac and, in my opinion, the secrecy of the declarations of the leaders of these organisations is one of its maniacal secrecy. But when we talk about the substance of the matter, it is still a lack of civil control if their declarations are not public. In the case of declarations, we can see in the time series whether there have been exponential changes in a person's financial situation and in his economic interests. This is what we can control by civil control and social control if we can make these comparisons in the time series over the years. Public disclosure is still the best anti-corruption method. So I would, however, like to confirm our party's position that we believe that disclosure is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U263	Thank you, Reverend Mart Helme! Of course, you have the right to take your stand, but there are pros and cons in everyone's position. Just as a recliner so much, I think we could trust parliamentary control over the declarations of interests of these two people. Once again, for the many times I repeat, we have a special committee against corruption. There are people in all political groups and they can actually keep this time series together with their group leader. So this control is there. I would not distrust the members of the Riigikogu, including the Special Committee against Corruption, who can exercise this supervision and control. Secondly, I agree, Mr Helme, that this secrecy is definitely too much. However, when it comes to where it is [justified] that the [group of state institutions] is a state secret, such a peculiar term is enshrined in the law, it is the Defence Police Department and the Foreign Intelligence Department. Somewhere else, perhaps there is an unacceptable amount of secrecy, but in the case of these two authorities, I do not think there is any reason to doubt that there is every justification for the stamp'state secret'.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U264	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the one-minute limit when we ask a question. Thank you. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U265	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You explained what happened in the Commission, but in fact, it was not entirely clear why the declarations of the heads of security authorities would not be made public. You said their declarations were a state secret, and that must remain so. But how do they differ from the President of the Republic, members of the Riigikogu, ministers and other high-level individuals? Please explain to me why the disclosure of these declarations of interest poses a greater threat to security and what a threat it could pose in the first place!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U266	Thank you, dear questioner. Of course, the security threat has been mentioned as one of the reasons why it is not done, but as if I do not overemphasise it. Rather, the aim is the same equal treatment, as has been the case repeatedly in this Chamber. I think that those who have an interest can already find out in the vast majority of these data. This also concerns these two persons. It is still a question of equal treatment. And I will say once again that there are different concepts here as to whether to treat the members of the Riigikogu and the Director General of the Defence Police Board equally, or whether to treat the Director General of the Defence Police Board and its officials or the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Board and its officials equally. I repeat: the declarations of interests of the Foreign Intelligence Service and the Defence Police Department officials are not already made public today, for the same reason that the composition of these agencies is a state secret. If you ask me if you should compare the office of Director General of Defence Police and Director General of Foreign Intelligence with our office, for example, then I dare say that the former Chairman of the Riigikogu certainly had more contact with state secrets. But I think that if you compare the scale of state secrets between a simple member of the Riigikogu and these two officials, they are still very different. So I think what makes us different is a state secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U267	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! I would like to come back to a question that was then about the adequacy of these measures in order to combat corruption in Estonia. You say it's a priority for the government. We've heard it many times, but the actions don't show it. The same cosmetic bill that we have on the table today, based on the recommendations of an international organisation. We have good practices of lobbyism, which the government has confirmed and which lobbyists themselves are not making fun of, but which they say is not enough and does not concern the people through whom they actually lobby. Evil root, we know, is the subject of party funding. But this will be postponed for an indefinite period by your fine Minister of Justice. He says we're gonna start preparing for the fall and then work out a development plan and then consult and maybe someday, I don't know how many years from now, we're gonna get to some steps. But we have these suggestions on the table. On what basis is your assurance that the current government will take corruption seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U269	Thank you, very respectable questioner. I have no doubt for a cent that today's government is taking corruption seriously. Secondly, I would remind you that today's government has only been in office for two months. But I think he may have done more in two months than a few governments in two years in this area. Once again, I admit that this bill is one small piece of the whole issue that needs to be addressed. But the same anti-corruption action plan approved by the Government of the Republic on the anti-corruption action plan. For some reason, I repeat, it was not approved by the previous government. I don't know why they didn't. But today's government has already done so in the last two months. And these same rules of lobby, well, of course, can always be assessed for their effects and content, but they also did. In this sense, I think that for this two months, it is already quite considerable. And secondly, if someone allows something to be done in some indefinite time or in the future, it's always very difficult to check whether there's something coming or not. But the same topic of party funding and party law in general is still very specific [promise]. Yeah, of course, it's just the time of the ITC, but it's still September. I think that when the plan to develop by September is ready, they'll move on from there. And that's a deadline that's verifiable. If I don't want to do this, I'm not setting a deadline. Let's think, let's see, we're working on it, all right? That's when you can stay on endlessly. So, in fact, in Parliament, there is very good control over whether or not the government is fulfilling what it has said in words. In this case, the Minister of Justice or I do not even know whether the Minister of Justice has promised it, but at least I, through the Minister of Justice and officials, have heard that such a plan for development is planned and that it is due for September. I think we could be very pleased if, by September, this is the intention to develop. I think it may not be long before something comes from there to decide on Parliament's table. I want you to understand that we have not taken this subject off the table in the slightest way. I'm sure the Government of the Republic will handle this. And once again, today's government has only been in office for two months. In two months, just under conditions where the corona is still the main theme for practically every member of the government from one angle or another, [more will not reach]. And it's also clear that you can't do things when you rush. I said this bill was pretty simple, it wasn't a complicated bill, but you see, there's actually a debate here too. However, it was possible to bring this quickly to Parliament, and we will do it when we are done, let us not wait for this whole package. Why are we stalling on this? This small step has been taken then, but I admit once again that this is not a key issue that you are pointing out, but we are getting closer to these big issues every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U270	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U271	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You also briefly talked about the lobby and the lobby rules that you were discussing there. And then you confirmed that Members of Parliament are not lobbyists. How did that come about, can you tell? It is just that the press has occasionally linked one, another or a third Member of Parliament to being a lobbyist. Lobby in Estonian is an interest defender, and here it should be said that no hello-hi, Sherlock, of course we defend someone's interests here. But lobbyist is derogatory. As a result of what discussions did you find that members of the Riigikogu were not lobbyists?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U272	Thank you, dear questioner. I have misled you now, or you have misunderstood me. In fact, point one: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss this during the procedure on this draft. And two: what I referred to is the lobby rules approved by the Government of the Republic. Of course, the Government of the Republic cannot decide on the Members of Parliament and establish their lobby rules. There has been such a noise in the press that why there are no Members of Parliament in these lobby rules. It cannot be because it is a law of the Government of the Republic, it has not been approved by Parliament. But this issue is important for Parliament. We do have good practice in this Member of Parliament. We actually have something here that might indicate a little bit, but maybe it needs to be improved and clarified. However, if Members of Parliament consider that this issue still needs to be dealt with at the level of the draft law, of course, Parliament's authority and the right to discuss it. However, once again: in this case, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss it, and the lobby rules that were introduced are by the Government of the Republic. They cannot extend to members of the Riigikogu. So there is no reason to blame one party or another for not having members of the Riigikogu there. It can't be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U273	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U274	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! We had exactly the same discussion at first reading of this draft. And here's the ancient problem. I fully understand opposition issues, I understand them. If there's a checker, who's gonna check the checker? In the Riigikogu, security authorities are controlled by the so-called "kapo Commission" or the Committee for the Supervision of Security Authorities. I asked the Minister at first reading that, if they control the security authorities anyway, why should these classified declarations not be checked by the same kapo committee? The Minister was in principle in agreement with this approach. Perhaps this would help to alleviate the situation, because they will then have this time series: if they control the security authorities anyway, they will also be able to look at these declarations. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U275	Thank you, dear questioner. In fact, this is quite possible in this committee too. And I say once again that there are representatives of all the political groups in this committee. When the Commission's work programmes are put together... I am frankly saying that I am not aware of whether or not they are familiar with these [declarations], but I think that, since we have been debating so much about it, also in this Chamber today, I have no doubt in the slightest that one or the other committee, it is a special committee against corruption or a special committee on the supervision of the security authorities referred to by you, in any case, will put it on the agenda. So I think it might be a small compromise. Today, these committees have not checked this and, let us say, today, perhaps this need has not been great either, because the declarations of interests of these people are public. Perhaps the control of these special committees is not very important. In the general public, everyone also has access to declarations of interests of these persons. This may also be a perfectly logical reason why they have not dealt with it so far. It's perfectly understandable. But if Parliament approves this bill, they will no longer be public. I think it is perfectly logical and understandable for the Riigikogu to take control of it through these two committees. So in that sense, I think it's a very pertinent question. But indeed, in the course of this debate, I myself was aware that, if they have not done so very actively to this day, it is perfectly understandable and justified by the fact that the declarations of interests of these two parties are public. And I think the committees will be very happy to take on this task. All the more so since one Commission is a representative of the opposition and the other Commission is a representative of the coalition. So in any case, it is possible to put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U276	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U277	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I understand that the staff of the security authorities are exempt from this, their declarations are not public. That's clear, because that's how the whole structure would come out. But it is also clear that we know the heads of the security agencies. There are two of them, and there is no need to hide that they exist. But here's the question. Have there been any problems at present as a result of the disclosure of these [declarations]? Did you discuss that too?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U278	Thank you, dear questioner. According to my information, there hasn't been a problem, but I might be wrong. I have not received any specific information on this, but at least my ears have not been able to get it into any trouble. The question, however, is the principle, the principle, the very one on which the author of the amendments actually places the emphasis. The question of which groups we compare is like a key issue. Do we compare the Director General with the officials under his command or do we compare the Director General with the members of the Riigikogu and, I don't know, the members of the government? It's a question. And the other thing is that we don't have to wait for problems, there's a way to prevent problems. On one of these intimate issues, however, we could have prevented these problems from changing the age limit; unfortunately, we are too late to do so and we are following up on this correction of errors. Once again, I admit that the security risk at the initiation of the draft was not prevailing. Rather, the aim is equal treatment. It is incomprehensible to me that the declarations of interests of other officials of the Defence Police Department are not public, but the declarations of interests of the Director-General are. I do not think that this is the case, and I think that this is the main reason why the initiator of the draft proposed such an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U279	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U280	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Riho Breivel's question was what I wanted to ask. Obviously, we don't want to see any of the agents' declarations, because you can see where the agents live and what's behind them. But yesterday we were discussing the issue of the classification of the SMI coordinates: how the forest grows, where [what] is, not even the minister can know, and no one else can. But it was said that it was possible to shift 500 meters or a kilometer so you couldn't figure out exactly where it is. I mean, in the case of the defense police and the head of foreign intelligence, you might want to move a little bit of concrete stuff so you can get a general picture. And another thing: why has the CPO Commission not dealt with them so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U281	Thank you, dear Peeter Ernits. Firstly, I have no information as to whether or not the CPO Commission has dealt with this. But in answering one of the previous questions, I said that it would be perfectly logical and understandable even if they had not dealt with it. Today, their declarations of interests are public, i.e. "public control" exists, press control exists. In this case, the special committee does not need an approach to this. However, if this draft law is approved by Parliament, I think it is appropriate that the special committees of Parliament carry out this verification. And once again, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for me to understand why you do not trust the Riigikogu, Parliament, the highest authority in Estonia to supervise the declaration of interests of two persons. I think it's quite sufficient and [grain control], because they're then sort of isolated. When it comes to mass, things often go unnoticed, it is, but now the declarations of interests of two persons in these two special committees receive much more attention than they have received to this day. They're being taken through the cross-breath. In this sense, I think that such de facto supervision and control over this time series will perhaps be much stronger than it is today. Often, when information is public, it's not interesting, but if it's classified, it's interesting, isn't it? What's hidden is still exciting. However, I fully trust Parliament's committees, and I think that neither the public nor the press have any reason to doubt that this supervision will be completely adequate. If there are any anomalies in the time series of their declaration of interests, obviously these anomalies will reach the necessary organs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U282	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U283	Thank you. My first question was of such a milder nature, but I will use the second question to come to the content of this draft, which concerns those people whose declarations are public, i.e. the political advisers of ministers. Now, according to the amendments, the Vice-Chancellors will probably also be included, as it was supported by the Commission. The most recent stories concerning the political advisors of ministers show that, in fact, at least in this last case, the citizen was obliged to make a declaration of interests because of one of his other positions, but in no way did it prevent trade in political influence and other acts that we are trying to rule out in the declaration. This means that declaration itself is not a sufficient measure. Or do you disagree? And what more effective measures do you think could be, in the case of the political advisors of ministers who are being recruited by the ministers themselves, to choose who to assess the risk themselves, to rule out situations where the minister's advisor is trading with his power?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U284	Thank you, dear questioner. As far as the Vice-Chancellors are concerned, I believe that the reason why the Reform Party Group also supported this EKRE amendment is also well remembered. It was that the five ministries of education and research, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs have imposed a corresponding obligation on the Deputy Chancellors. It's not in the rest of the ministries. Perhaps the exception is the Ministry of Defence, where, under other laws, their interests are recorded. But for me, it is incomprehensible, it does not make sense that the five ministries, figuratively speaking, are at risk of corruption and there is no risk of corruption in the rest of the ministries, there is no need for deputy chancellors to submit a [declaration]. I find that very illogical. Does everyone have to or doesn't have to? In this sense, I think that the logical and rational solution is that it must be everyone. Now, as far as the effectiveness of this measure is concerned, I dare say that there is, not very much, but, nevertheless, certain public control. And as far as sanctions are concerned, there have also been different perceptions as to whether or not sanctions can be imposed. In fact, there is a paragraph in the Penal Code that states that there is a financial penalty of up to 300 fine units or arrests for making false statements. So there's a real sanction if you make false statements. Now, don't attack me too much for this, but I think this is a pretty messed up place. If I don't just make that declaration, then I haven't made any false statements either. This section cannot be applied. That is one point that has come to my mind about this draft procedure. I saw from one summary how many had submitted a declaration of interest in due course. The deadline for submission shall be 31 May. One of the first reviews made last year revealed that a very significant number of people had not submitted a declaration of interest. I think that's actually one thing. Of course, we have no reason to believe that ministers' political advisers do not make declarations of interest. Certainly ministers and other relevant officials will ensure that they are presented, but the real problem is that if you are obliged to submit, you will still not. This is definitely something I also want to discuss with Minister of Justice, Maris Lauri, that it is not some kind of white spot on this landscape. In that case, it would be very easy to get out of all this. But once again, there is a sanction for making false statements, but don't ask me how often it has been implemented. Let's just say not too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U285	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U286	Thank you. Of course, the declarations of interests of the defence police officers must not be made public; that would be to make the entire body known to the opponents, and that would certainly jeopardise security. But your approach to this equal treatment is, in my opinion, completely mistaken. The argument that whether everyone submits or no one submits by this logic, for example, the Director of the State Chancellery does not submit by officials. Which way do we solve it now? Do we also remove the Director of the State Chancellery from this list when we talk about equal treatment? Or the president and his office, etc. So, in fact, there is no substantive justification why their declarations should be classified. This remains incomprehensible to the end and, unfortunately, has not understood the explanations either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U287	Thank you, dear questioner. If you don't like the explanation, it's the easiest thing to say that you don't understand the explanation. And secondly, it can't be ruled out that we're sticking to different points of view. But once again, the Ministry of Justice has repeatedly confirmed that this is what guarantees equal treatment rather than the Director General of the Defence Police and Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate being treated in the same way as these officials. That this is more of a violation of the principle of equal treatment than it is today. And when I said that everyone should be treated equally, I meant either they will or they won't, the Vice Chancellors. I gave this example that in five ministries they have to submit, the rest of them do not have to. I don't think that makes any sense. It doesn't make sense that the five ministries do, and the rest of the ministries don't. Whether it's all performers or no performers. That is one principle. But, yeah, there's plenty of land to go around here. And I say once again that, in my opinion, for these two persons, ladies and gentlemen, we could trust our committees. I am absolutely convinced that they are doing this very actively and are looking at these declarations of interest. We have no reason to doubt that there is something missing, because there is considerably more than one pair of eyes there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U288	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U289	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Honourable waitress! Your performance is enjoyable and your explanations are elegant. Unfortunately, you have been given an ungrateful task, because this content is still a little thin. There can be no decision if the grounds for the decision are wrong. I would point out that the principle of equal treatment, firstly, is not the only one that should be taken into account for the heads of these institutions. There is also their role, their weight in society, their tasks and their responsibility. But the main thing is that the composition and structure of these bodies are state secrets, the names of the managers are not. That is why applying this principle is not quite right. So, if possible, we should look at this thing again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U290	Thank you, very respected questioner and colleague from Pärnumaa, Alar Laneman. Indeed, there are different interpretations and different concepts. § 12 of the Constitution can be interpreted in the same way and can also be interpreted in the opposite direction. I'm sure things aren't black or white either. Then it would be very easy if everyone were either black or white, we would know which box one goes into or the other one doesn't. There are often such borderline cases. Perhaps this office manager, by virtue of his status, could have been treated equally, I don't know, with a member of the Riigikogu or with the Director-General of the Transport Board or whatever. Still, the same state secret that you yourself mentioned in your question is the criterion. And I say again: I am 90 percent convinced that the declaration of the interests of these two persons will be given more attention in the future than they have so far. I am thinking of the inspection of Parliament's special committees. In this sense, we have no reason to doubt that they will somehow remain out of sight as a result of this change. As I said, what is public is often not interesting, especially what is going on behind the fence. There's a Sketch on this from Eino Baskin's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U291	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U292	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Let us pick up where Mr Alar Laneman left off. That is the fundamental difference between the employees and the managers of the institutions, that the directors are public, that the employees are not. This is also a clear reason why so far the declarations of economic interests of managers are not classified. The question is, what is the point of categorizing the declarations of economic interests of those who are known to the public, as well as those who are very well known.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U293	Thank you, dear questioner. I'm forced to repeat myself many times. Still, for me, it's a keyword of state secrecy, not so much security. I think that exploiting the data contained in the Declaration of Interests against national security interests is a small opportunity, but it is a small part of the arguments. Once again, for me, the key question is still the principle, the principle. Once again, the desire is to treat drivers equally with other employees in these institutions. On the contrary, I am saying today that they are being treated unequally, because only the heads of the institution have to make their declarations public, and other officials do not have to do so. In this sense, however, the authority is, in my opinion, a state secret, not an official, the head of this institution. In my opinion, they cannot be distinguished. This membership as a state secret extends to the institution as such and to all employees. We cannot cut out the heads of institutions that do not apply to them just as state secrets do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U294	Mr Chairman of the Commission, there are no further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. First of all, the floor will be given on behalf of the EKRE Group by Paul Puustusmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U295	Thank you very much, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and those on the other side of the screen! Thank you, of course, Thomas, for a very good overview first. This was a very objectively given overview of what we had in the Commission. Thank you. But, as you can see, there is a lot of confusion and little justification for this confusion, which shows, on the one hand, that certainly this planned amendment to the law has not been properly considered. Of course, what I would like to say first of all, being here before you not only as a Pulpland, but still as a representative of a group, a representative of the EKRE Group, I would first like to emphasise one thing. I want to refute those claims that have been dropped into the mass media in connection with this same amendment to the law, the draft 323 on our party, the EKRE. It's like the EKRE has been trying to stop it for a long time. And the rationale for mainstream media has been that the EKRE does not want to fight corruption. This is a very big lie. On the contrary! Quite the contrary! EKRE is, in fact, the point of this law, I stress, always supported the idea and thoroughly because it is very important for us to fight corruption, to fight crime at both national and party level. That's for sure! But where are the contradictions? The contradictions come from the same keywords that we talked about in this Chamber for a long time today. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal shows that the purpose of this amendment is to build on the recommendations of GRECO, which are the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Association against Corruption, additional recommendations. We do not dispute this fact in itself here. The EKRE does not mind if there is some principled clarity that there really are very important persons whose interests need to be declared so that they are declared. Okay, we agree. However, the discussions in the Commission so far also made it very clear that this limitation, the overshadowing of the declaration of the interests of certain persons, is not justified. And look at how interesting it is here to see what contradictions are also coming out of the Commission's head [of the discussion]. First of all, when we are talking about equal treatment, it is interesting that this is one of the exciting approaches that the application of the principle of equal treatment must be done within the institution, that the institution is the specific set that we should apply to the principle of equal treatment. In fact, the logic of the law is absolutely different. According to the logic of the Act, these groups of persons are listed at certain levels and are listed in the Anti-Corruption Act at different points in § 13 (1). That's where the levels are. And if we add somebody else to it, that's where the principle of equal treatment comes from. So here I can't, good Thomas, agree very much with you that we're approaching internally here. It's all the more strange to look at, if we're going to follow a, really, so to speak, subordinal approach to the solution of this principle. More than that, what came out? I also have to thank Mr Odines here, by the way, who mentioned what the officials actually referred to. That when we talk about this same process of processing declarations of interest, its real impact and its real benefits, it is not really there. It's pretty pro forma activity. So this is a kind of substitution activity, which is subject to some kind of requirement of some kind, but which has no practical content or benefit. When we are now talking about those people who have been introduced there, I would stress that it has just been pointed out that this is very important from a security point of view. Here I cannot, Thomas, agree with you that, above all, the principle of equal treatment is important and security is like in the background. Actually, it's the other way around. And look, there are already some questions that the National Conservatories have proposed. If we're talking about security... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U296	Please! Three minutes extra time, eight in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U297	...we can't, like, approach this way. The changes planned by the government actually result in an increase in bureaucracy in particular. It cannot be logical that if we add more people, the bureaucracy will decrease. No, it will in any case lead to its growth. In fact, we see quite clearly that there is a contradiction with both § 11 and § 12 of the Constitution. In fact, let us say, the first problem of these amendments is the expansion of bureaucracy and the expansion of the circle of declarants. It is like a recommendation from the European Union. If we take another problem, it is the imposition of unequal treatment, and it is already on the initiative of our government. Well, it's not a good thing. And since the EKRE's view is that red tape needs to be reduced, that constitutional equal treatment needs to be deepened, so that the introduction of unnecessary and aimless, non-function legislation needs to be avoided, the party cannot support this change. We call on the Riigikogu not to adopt the changes under consideration, not to engage in substitution activities, but to undertake a thorough improvement of measures that prevent corruption in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U298	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U299	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Republic holders on this side and on that side of the screen! A little clarification that here I am not a group representative at all. There's a second reading, every man can express an opinion, and I'm still expressing my own personal opinion. I had the honour of being an alternate on the floor committee. Odines remembers that I asked quite a few interesting questions there. In fact, those were interesting questions for me. But let's start with one thing. In addition to being able to simply process different drafts, there could be a trading venue. Two employees of a security authority want their declarations to be non-public. I put forward a very good and clever offer at the time. Addressee was, well, not the best: Valdo Randpere. I said that the Vice-Chairmen of the Commission on the Corridor Committee were the first hand of Eduard Odines, and Valdo Randpere was the second hand of the committee. Right, right, the vice-chairmen of the Commission, no matter what. Then it would be like here all the time or it's been said for a long time that sausage for ham or ham for sausage. The other is, from the lobbyist I am, the protection of interests. At the moment, we are extending this circle to ministerial advisers, not all of them, some of the councillors already have. Who is their representative? Who will participate in these negotiations? It is already repeated in the Riigikogu that if we make any changes to the law, no one will communicate with the direct interest group. When we raised the beer excise, did anyone talk to happy beer friends about what they thought about it? Is anyone talking to a representative of the political councillors of ministers about what they think about this? No, we have this semi-hard engagement that kind of involves a little bit, but kind of doesn't. As far as Members of Parliament are concerned, the good colleague Toomas Kivimägi said that yes, we have this good practice of a member of the Riigikogu. Generally, good practice says that the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu is not opened, spoken about and not changed. Just as he was accepted, [so stays], our good practice is, as it were, over. At this point, I cannot agree that we ourselves should turn off any taps. But, yeah, I wonder what we could get. After all, at this point in time as a Parliament, we have the opportunity to impose ourselves to some extent. Yeah, sort of. Are we going to take on our service staff, whom we may be saving from not having to comply with their declarations of economic interest, because bureaucracy is so great and bureaucracy has other objectives. At the same time, maybe that's actually a good thing. After all, the bureaucratic machine must be constantly employed, because at the moment when officials are no longer able to work and have nothing to do with them, they start thinking about new tasks. Maybe we should keep it quiet in a standby mode so he can quietly deliver and process and process so that he doesn't start thinking about who else [to be added]. Because corruption is... It's not like I'm gonna teach you how to do these things. You turn someone into a referee, maybe, but whoever's a corrupt, it's not an advisor, it's a referee. And whoever's counselor, it doesn't really give advice, it can just press the cappuccino button and the espresso button. These options are still possible: family members, distant relatives, ex-girlfriends, parents, siblings, someone's workout partner or whatever. But about the declarations, I'm saying I can't see... In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, however, we could have said, even if, for example, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that his declaration of interests is not public. Why do I want to tell you this? Because I have an extremely embarrassing story. When I became an ambassador to the Tallinn whistle collection in 2005, I didn't want to have [overtime], 30 seconds to finish, they asked me, because the deklar was public: "Hey, man, you don't have any loans. How can you live like this? " I was so ashamed. I didn't have any shares either. I said recommend it then. If this is Leibur's stock, I'll buy at least that one stock so I don't get stuck. Now I'm, of course, an obedient national and I've taken a loan, so I'm all click OK. I do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U300	Good Tarmo Kruusimäe, thank you for pointing out that all members of the Riigikogu can actually speak at second reading. It is very good practice for us to be the first to speak on behalf of the political groups. Next, please! But before we can go to Lauri's West Forest, Valdo Randpere has his hand up. I think it's the wish of the rejoinder. Or is there a procedure? Mr. Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U301	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, my name was named. Tarmo Kruusimäe told me all about the espresso buttons, ex-girlfriends, shares in Leibur and me. So, just in case, he didn't want to say anything bad about me. He wanted to congratulate me, but somehow it was hidden by the rest of that kind of crazy speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U302	Lauri Western Forest on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U303	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, We have no particular complaints about the content of this draft. Absolutely the right path, absolutely the right recommendations to regulate how and who should declare their interests. Since these are generally people who have access to decision-making, it is absolutely right. But why we're doing this, this whole picture should actually be looked at a lot more widely. I think the most important thing is to start with the most burning problems. And when we think about Estonia's most burning problems, every corruption issue, any such open door or any opportunity that could lead someone in a bad way must, of course, be closed. The worst thing that, as we have seen, Estonia has been hit the most, the people of Estonia have been hit and the most damaging of which can be born is political corruption. If we look at this bill or at all these moves, how we try to deal with such matters, then we cannot be satisfied. If you put this draft in a broader context, I think there are problems, and I would like to stop and call on both the coalition and the opposition: we will immediately address those issues concerning the prevention of political corruption. If we look at more important things now, what will continue to concern us? This is the approval of the anti-corruption action plan, without the inclusion of an objective to address the reduction or prevention of political corruption. And once again, I have said this many times that it has been quite well pointed out how it is handled so that doctors are not given candy boxes. But you know, the fact that people get well, perhaps thanks to the candy box, is a much smaller problem than the fact that 40 million crisis money is going to the wrong place. In the example of Porto Franco, 40 million people are responsible for managing a very large number of people, for coping with significantly more people, and for the health of significantly more people. That $40 million could have been, or could have helped a lot more people. In this sense, the fact that there is no dealing with political corruption in the Anti-Corruption Commission and now to say that the previous government has prepared this plan and that we have not started to complement it, of course, shows the priorities. It wasn't so important, although this was always said when the current coalition was formed. Now that we are looking at other activities in the Committee on Inquiry: crisis measures, hundreds of millions with new measures, the additional budget that we are going to talk about today, together with more than EUR 1 billion. Over EUR 1 billion, but we say that we do not want to investigate it. We don't want to look into it, I don't want to look into it. This, too, is a very important message. It's a message through action. It is only words that are very noble and that they want to deal with the prevention of corruption. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U304	Please, three minutes extra time, eight in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U305	We will be able to show it in action soon, at the beginning of April. Here comes a draft from the Social Democrats, which concerns a reduction in political corruption. It contains proposals for the government to develop measures to limit electoral costs. As we know, the more this competition needs to be measured during the elections, the more it will force us to find money. And if money cannot be found honestly, it can tempt both parties and individuals to the wrong path, and that is what we have seen well here. If I now think about what the honourable Minister of Justice has said about why the government is not willing to support the draft strengthening of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, which was initiated by the Socialists. The answer was that we need to analyse, we need to discuss it with someone. Let's just say that if these analyses last for a very long time, I realize that they start in the autumn and maybe eventually arrive just before the elections, so that there are no things left unfinished, it is very difficult to be convinced of this real will and sincerity. If you look at all this activity, I say that if you really want to, I don't know, make some kind of new system, the holes that are in the process of developing this new system should be filled right away. And these holes are well known to us. The Political Financing Supervisory Commission has been addressing the various compositions of the Riigikogu for years and has said that you can see that there are problems here. These are not questions that need to be resolved as a matter of principle. These principles are enshrined in the law, but these principles cannot be followed because a couple of paragraphs are simply left uninformed, knowingly or unconsciously. Those holes we should fill in right now. And then we'll come back to this analysis and maybe to this bigger system or more fundamental changes. It would then be credible that the real aim is to deal with corruption issues, the prevention of this most burning political corruption. Of course, it would be credible even if the Minister of Justice was not just talking about us going into analysis. What do you mean, the government's just analyzing? In my opinion, this is actually something that the Riigikogu should deal with in parallel, not so that the government brings proposals back here. Where is this circle of engagement now, so that each party and not only parliamentary parties but also non-parliamentary parties will be represented in the circle where these matters are discussed? In conclusion, this bill is the right way to go, but unfortunately it does not convince us in this most important, most burning matter that it is actually intended to deal with the eradication of political corruption. Let's hope there's a bill. And at least the Social Democrats have presented them, and they will soon be here to discuss, so you can convince us of our actions. I call on everyone to show it in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U306	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U307	Thank you, Mr President. I am speaking on my own behalf because the group has already spoken on its behalf. I share the concerns of my colleague, Mr Western Forest, and precisely because, as I referred to in my questions, this anti-corruption action by the current government does not seem as we are allowed to say. Yes, the changes we are going to vote on today are important. I'm sure they'll take us a little bit further, but I'd call them cosmetic changes. As the last case shows, even declaring interests does not help the Minister's political advisor to lose the temptation to use his political power and trade in it. There was also talk of an anti-corruption action plan. There is no chapter on political parties and funding for political parties. All the proposals of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee are stuck in the corridors and offices of the Riigikogu. Apparently, they're in the same shelf that the Minister of Justice loves to talk about in the last few days, where there's another bill collecting dust. The Western Forest also spoke of the committee of inquiry from this court. This is also an example of how it is not advisable to deal with serious corruption cases, and it is not advisable to deal with them seriously. When we recall what was one of the first drafts with which the new coalition came into this Chamber: it was an attack on the membership of the Special Committee against Corruption. Why? Does this really have to be one of the first steps in the fight against corruption? I doubt it. Even lobbyists themselves say that this is not enough, it does not guarantee protection, it does not guarantee transparency, because the obligation to register meetings with lobbyists is imposed only on the highest ministerial officials, but not on those with whom lobbyists actually meet and who actually write these drafts, regulations and laws. We don't have to deal with cosmetics, we have to deal with important things. And it seems to me that the subject mentioned by Lauri, or the funding of political parties, is one of the most important issues with which we should move forward as quickly as possible. We should not wait for a plan to be developed, we should not wait for an analysis and consensus to be sought, something must be done now and quickly, today. All these changes, which extend the powers and powers of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, should be adopted before the local elections this year. The pressure on political parties to increase their campaign volumes, to find money and thus trade their effects is pretty high before each election. Increasing the number of declarants, of course, does not guarantee that this system is fair, fair and transparent. We already know that. Yes, misreporting is punishable, but also providing completely honest information can be freely traded with its effects. But let's move on with the declarations! Perhaps we are thinking about how to process them, to review them, to make them more efficient and effective. As Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Commission, I know that when checking and comparing declarations,... Can I have a minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U308	One more minute, please, six minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U309	... must take manual physical declarations from previous years and begin to compare them with each other. Perhaps this system needs to be changed, and I hope that we will move forward in this direction as well. I personally support this draft and call on colleagues to support it. But I also call on the Government and the Minister of Justice not to organise round tables, workshops. There is no need to carry out analyses and to seek consensus, which may not be achieved in this Chamber. The issues of political party financing and other issues that help our society, if not quite, to put an end to corruption should be addressed without delay, at least to make it as difficult as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U310	On behalf of the Group of the Toomas Kivimägi Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U311	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it important to stress that the fight against corruption is one of the most important issues of this government coalition. It's hard to measure, but I don't think I'm wrong that this government has done more in two months than a few governments in two years. Let's think about it a little bit. You can't do it all at once. You can't do it on your feet. Of course, I totally agree with that, and I also said in my speech that this draft does not claim to fill all the gaps in the laws on corruption. It does not claim to fill all the gaps; it really fills a small gap. Do not be upset that we have come with this bill, all the more so because this bill was really being dealt with during the previous government coalition. It was almost done. We brought him to the hall quickly. I don't know why it didn't get to the hall sooner. Should we have waited on it? It was very topical. But, of course, when we talk about party law, it obviously takes more time to prepare. And I certainly cannot accept that we do not have to carry out analyses or collect opinions. After all, we ourselves have approved the fundamentals of legislation in this Chamber, where it has been said that if the government comes with a draft law, there must be an intention to develop. We can't ignore the V.T.C. on such important issues as the fight against corruption. And it is important to say this, too, that I do not refer to any of the previous speakers, that when it comes to analysing in the autumn, I say the opposite. By September, however, there will still have to be a TTC and thus by autumn, there will be a great deal of analysis, not an analysis in autumn, when we are talking about party law and the same issue of funding. So the ITC obviously requires analysis and these analyses will be dealt with today-to-morrow-to-day. By September, it will have to get between the covers in the form of a VTK. Once there was a run-through from here, the thought of this colleague is out of the hall at the moment, so that the heads of security institutions would have liked their declarations not to be made public. I don't have any information that the heads of security would have wanted it. I think it would be very misleading if it were the impression that they were the ones who wanted it. I don't have any information that they wanted it to be. Now a good colleague's remark that we are increasing bureaucracy. Well, with this bill comes in the order of 50 to 60 people who are obliged to submit declarations of interest. Let's compare it to 5,000, it's actually a drop in the big sea. And on the other hand, when a colleague of the same party says that we should expand this circle of people, I find it hard to understand that, if, on the one hand, if there are 50 more people, it is an increase in bureaucracy, but if you put another 5,000 to 5,000, then it is like it is not an increase in bureaucracy. In this sense, it is as if these positions should be coordinated. There was also a comment on the replacement activity by the same party, which itself dealt with this draft in the previous government coalition. Okay, he didn't make it to the hall. But the government was working on it, and now to say that if the other government is dealing with it, it's just like a substitute. It's very hard to understand. And the last, most important, ladies and gentlemen, still. I understand that there are no major objections to the need for ministers' political advisers to submit declarations of interest. This is a relatively unanimous position. Indeed, the main issue is whether or not the Director General of the Defence Police and the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate must submit declarations of interest. Once again, I have no doubt at all that the declarations of interests of these two persons thanks to the EKRE, thanks to this debate here, will receive more attention in the special committees of the Riigikogu than they have received so far. So neither the public nor the Members of Parliament have any reason to doubt that their declarations of interest will be disregarded. Thank you very much and I call on you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U312	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U313	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Corruption is undoubtedly one thing in which we all seem to agree that it is not acceptable. It can be said that there is nothing wrong with Estonia, we are at some medium European level, somewhere equal to France. It'd be nice, and there's a reason for pride to make boobs. But, at the same time, our good northern neighbour is in charge of European statistics because of the lack of corruption. And next to that, our position is very poor. Especially in a situation where we have two political parties in power, whose use of money, how to say it now, has been strange over the years, to say the least, and one of the sections of government has been suspected of corruption, the government's aim should be precisely to reduce corruption by taking vigorous and courageous steps and to show that we are on the right track. I'm afraid we can't see it. We hear the words. But all things have to be right and they have to look right. Even the situation that the prime minister of a party suspected of corruption resigns and is rewarded with the position of Chairman of the Riigikogu, and he is presented by a party associate who has been charged with corruption, well forgive me, that looks terrible! And that's terrible. Coming now to this bill, we unfortunately do not see any bold big steps here either. In the same way we approve of the GRECO proposals, we will put them into practice, which is extremely positive. We are expanding the circle of those who have to make a declaration of interest. And at the same time, it's like we're taking a step backwards in the jenka dance, and instead, we're reducing this circle without any real reason. We have been told about the issue of security, of state secrecy and equal treatment. Hey, I'm sorry! There is no state secret who is the head of our security agencies. Their declarations have not even been a matter of state secrecy or, of course, of security. The same great question of security and the issue of state secrecy could be the declaration of the President, the declaration of the Prime Minister, the President of the Riigikogu, all members of the Riigikogu, ministers, the Chancellor of Justice, etc., etc. But no one here thinks that disclosure would harm our security in any way and that it should be a state secret. These excuses are just taken from the ceiling, they're not a criminal. In the same way as the allegations of equal treatment: that if officials of the Defence Police and Foreign Intelligence Board are not required to disclose it, how will the Head do so. But this level is absolutely different. We are talking about equal treatment at levels, not the head of the institution or institution and the level of officials under its authority. It's messing up these levels. It's kind of an equalization. And if you bring here the issue of state secrets, I'm sorry, I've had the experience of the Riigikogu for years, and I'm just laughing... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U314	Please, three minutes, eight in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U315	It saddens me to laugh at this practice that we see every day, how all kinds of documents are stamped after a secret stamp. As I moved from one office to another, I found a speech by former Foreign Minister Sven Mikser, which he presented here in the Riigikogu in an overview of foreign policy. The public talk, all the representatives of the diplomatic corps sat upstairs, it was tagged in the media, but it had a seal on it called "Intra-Institutional use until 2029." Oh, my God! In the same way, the Prime Minister is currently sending us corona reviews, to the members of the Riigikogu, with exactly the same mark as "classified for internal use." We can't even use this data in discussions anywhere. The shadow of state secrets and the hiding behind them, especially when there is absolutely no idea and no foundation, is actually just a sign of weakness and cowardice. That they're afraid of something. Maybe some steps or actions will come out, just in case we ban and secrete all those things that are actually perfectly normal here and everywhere else, where no one ever thought that such things could be classified. This draft, which, in the same way, extends the circle of representatives of declarations of interest, is perfectly acceptable, positive and good in this respect, and this part is supported by the Conservative People's Party. But the part where, for some reason, certain persons are taken out of this circle without any justification is by no means acceptable. We object to that, we do not support it. We therefore propose to interrupt the second reading of draft 323 SE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U316	I'm closing the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U317	Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U318	Let's get ready. Dear Riigikogu, I put to the vote before you Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U319	Amendment 61 was opposed by 19, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U320	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U321	I'll put it to the vote, but now without the hall call. Dear Riigikogu, I put to the vote before you Amendment 2 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U322	The proposal was supported by 19 members of the Riigikogu, 66 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment, tabled in the same way by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, is proposed by the Steering Committee: to be disregarded. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U323	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U324	Dear Riigikogu, I put to the vote before you Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U325	19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 66 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, proposed by the commission, is to be disregarded. Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U326	Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U327	Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the vote before you Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, and the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U328	The proposal was voted in favour by 19 votes to 67, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 is tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, position of the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments, but we have received the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to suspend the procedure for the draft, and we also need to vote through it. Do you agree that we will vote without a hall call? There are no objections. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose that the Conservative People's Party Group interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act 323. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U329	The proposal was supported by 19 members of the Riigikogu, 72 members of the Riigikogu opposed, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have completed the second reading of Bill 323.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U330	We will go to today's fourth item, which is the draft law amending § 15 of the Defence Forces Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 324. Mati Raidma will make a second reading report from the National Defence Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U331	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 8 February 2021. The first reading of the draft was completed on 23 February, the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 10 March at 5.15 p.m., was tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Committee on National Defence also tabled an amendment as a lead committee. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 15, 16 and 22 March. The National Defence Committee brought the draft to the discussion before the second reading, as the representative of the interest group, the Assembly of Estonian Reservoir Officers, represented by the whole president, Major Andre Lilleht, who participated in the meeting on 15 and 16 March. As representative of the initiator of the draft act, Anu Rannaveski, Head of the Defence Service Department of the Ministry of Defence, participated in the above-mentioned meetings. Major Andre Lilleeht, representative of the Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly, supported the transition to paperless e-solutions and encouraged new solutions. He stated that if e-solutions do not actually work, such as missing or missing access to the Internet, the draft provides for other means of service of documents. The amendments tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party on the draft concerned the sending of confirmation by the addressee. The Commission also discussed these proposals at its meeting on 15 and 16 March. One of the three proposals was withdrawn by the representative of the group in Leo Kunna, and the other two did not finally find the Commission's support after the discussions. The representative of the initiator of the draft act justified the disagreement with the view that the aim of the draft was to raise awareness among the defence forces of their obligation to receive and consult the documents of the State. The introduction of confirmation from the addressee of the document would give the defence officer a choice to accept documents which would not be fit for purpose. As the acknowledgement of receipt of the document would not be mandatory for the addressee of the document, there may be a risk that a person may decide not to send such a statement. In the longer term, the amendments, together with their explanations, are available on the list of amendments and are included in the explanatory memorandum for the second reading of the draft. I also note that Amendment 3 of the commission of lading was supported in a consensual manner. The amendment was basically technical, linguistic and brings the paragraphs of the draft into line. The linguistic clarifications were made in the draft proposal by the language editor. The representative of the initiator of the draft act accepted the decisions of the National Defence Committee on the amendments and the linguistic specifications. I also note that the meeting of the committee revealed the fact that official letters are sent through the e-mail box of the state portal via the Tax and Customs Board, Road Administration, Police and Border Guard Board, Ministries, Supreme Court, Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and bailiffs. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 22 March this year, the Committee on National Defence unanimously approved the text of the second reading, the explanatory memorandum and the list of amendments. Previously, at the meeting of 16 March 2021, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 24 March. At the meeting of 16 March, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop the second reading of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U332	You also have questions, at least one. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U333	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Based on the fact that we treat all minors as children, which age is mandatory for children to have a personal identification code@eesti.ee e-mail address and what are these sanctions? I also point out that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia makes the obligation of the Defence Forces gender neutral.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U334	This is not the issue we discussed at the Commission meeting. We focused on the defence forces who have a constitutional task in front of our country. You touched the kids. It's a little different.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U335	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U336	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Our experience so far with eesti.ee letters and data and documents shows that in fact most of our people will not be able to get all this information home at all. After all, the last sad experience is now from this corona period, when it has been tried to send the calls for vaccination through there and, in fact, it only reaches a fraction of the people. Aren't you still afraid that if we now invite the military courtman to all kinds of exercises, time service, wherever we send documents, they won't actually arrive? What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U337	Thank you. First of all, we have indeed reached a phase in today's society where e-channels and the internet are not a foreign subject. This was also demonstrated by a survey carried out among the defence community, where the oppressive majority, by memory, I say and can be mistaken, more than 80% wanted to use e-channels in communicating with the state, in obtaining information from the state. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, I very much agree that this was the bottleneck that this failed vaccination notification highlighted. At the same time, we are pleased to note the fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has submitted a draft amendment to the decree of the Government of the Republic of Estonia to coordinate the ministries on 16 March, according to which @eesti.ee would end with us to direct people's personal e-mail addresses so that important messages would still reach the people. The nature of the problem is acknowledged. This platform deserves more use; it significantly facilitates communication between the state and people. And I am absolutely certain that by 1 January 2022, when these provisions start to apply, there will be a much better situation in this area, and that will give a real effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U338	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U339	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I repeat: from what age are the citizens of the Republic of Estonia obliged to follow their personal identification code@eesti.ee e-mail address and what are the sanctions if this has not been done for some time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U340	This obligation comes with the responsibility of the armed forces. Point one. And point two: For all those who enter this circle, the first thing is to get a message in the form of a letter in a classic way. Everyone can choose the appropriate channel of communication. This § 15, when read more precisely, contains a wide variety of possibilities for moving information. Already at first reading, there was a need for this information to be shared in the campaign, which was underlined several times here. What is more: national defence training, national defence education in schools is the primary platform where young people can get this information and understand how to interact with such a new information platform.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U341	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U342	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a question: is Herman Simm involved in this bill? Now let's imagine a little bit of this real situation. For ten years, we're gonna talk about how we're gonna build the last mile, we're gonna finish up, the internet is gonna be in every country home right now. If we now think that in a crisis situation, Estonia may be hit by massive cyber attacks, which will at least temporarily cut off any electronic communications we have. How do you imagine that, in this situation, these invitations will actually reach the candidates?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U343	In answer to the first question, I deeply doubt that Simmi's internet knowledge will reach this high. The answer to the second question is simple. When we talk about specific notifications in difficult situations, ending with a war situation, this section of the law does not deal with this. These topics are listed in RIKS, or the National Defence Act. And in fact, in such cases, the simplest and most effective instrument is the media, or television radio, where a general announcement is made and those defence forces who are obliged to go somewhere under certain conditions can already know it via other channels, not through this platform.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U344	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U345	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'll pick up where Mart Helme ended up. It is possible, indeed, that the internet will disappear at one point and that these problems will all remain in the air. And your answer to the fact that they're reporting through the media, but when the power goes out, there's no special information from the media either. Shouldn't we still, in order to ensure full readiness, use the "classic" courier method? It's the only foolproof tool, unless a courier gets knocked down somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U346	Thank you. If you dive into the text of the draft text, you will find all these variants in the same text, § 1 (2) speaks of any other way [communication]. Just adds one more platform from 1 January next year. No one's going to take out the previous ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U347	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U348	[[Remote connection]] Hello! My question, good Mati, is next to you. The testing of this eesti.ee was dealt with in a strange way, perhaps the weekend before, when the suffering and nerves of several thousand older people were tested. Additional vaccine quantities were found for vaccination and all this information was tried and tested by eesti.ee, but this was one of the most unsuccessful ways of piloting. In the case of the Defence Forces, they are considerably younger people who are certainly more digitally capable, but can you confirm that if this system is implemented, they will be able to think a little further ahead, and that will not be the same failure as the vaccination test we witnessed just now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U349	Thank you. I fully agree with the example of vaccination. But the courage to believe in the implementation of this platform is added by the fact that there is more than half a year to do so. All relevant institutions, authorities, ministries would do their homework for good. Unfortunately, this probably failed during the vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U350	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U351	Thank you. In fact, I believe that the most important thing in this matter is operationality. Let's say there's an important time factor here, how quickly we can do something. In this sense, let us say, this classic communication should still be given priority when technical possibilities fail.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U352	Thank you very much. Yeah, I totally agree with you when communication issues are operational. At the moment, most of the communication mass is of a non-operational nature: medical committees and such things, administrative communications. And that's why we're dealing with this. As I said, the exchange of information on the operational field has been enshrined in the National Defence Act today. It's more of a daily information channel description.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U353	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U354	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Mati Raidma! Did the Commission have any serious argumentary reason why we should not take this step in order to take a more modern approach to this whole issue? It's a little weird to be honest about hearing this distrust. But was there any serious argument as to why we should not take a step forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U355	Thank you! No, it wasn't. There was a long debate, as you have noted, in several sittings. And that's what's needed to unravel the subject. Such an opinion is easy to come. This exchange of information, which we are talking about, also concerns times of crisis, the war situation, etc. But when we got it all open, we approached with our positions, say, at the border of the opposition coalition, obviously. We realized this road was the right one. There were concerns, which I believe we received answers both from the initiator of the draft and from among ourselves. There was no such sharp confrontation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U356	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Let's go to the negotiations. The negotiations shall be open to all ambassadors, but first to the speeches of the representatives of the political groups. Leo Kunnas, please, on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U357	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The EKRE Group supports this draft as a whole. Using electronic channels is a big step forward. But the devil is always in the details. That is why I am also talking about our amendments and I call for their support. What is important is that if we expect the country to expect a person to fulfil any obligations, then we must be sure that he is aware of these obligations as well. This is such a simple and clear principle, and our amendments are aimed at putting it in here. During this debate, we proposed to the Ministry of Defence that this law could regulate general provisions, but technical details, i.e. what kind of anales to use, this whole list up to the messengers, and within what time these notifications should have been made, this could be the subject of the Minister of Defence's regulation. This is not even the level of government regulation. We set the general rule, and they can see what works and whether it takes 14, 30 or some other number of days to report. This regulation would be flexible. The representative of the Ministry of Defence, Mrs Rannaveski, disagreed with this and claimed that it was contrary to the law of administrative procedure. That may be true, but I can see that a substantive problem solution could be this way. Our amendments are aimed at preventing the potential problems that may arise here from January 2022, when we will implement it. It is better to anticipate and prevent these problems now, not that we come back to them at the end of our term of office, or that our future colleagues will come back to these things in the next term. Here, of course, all types of paper [communication] will remain and will remain as an alternative to redirecting e-mail to its address. So there are other channels. But as I said, we really should delegate this whole "tactical part" to the level of the Department of Defense that we did not succeed at the moment. And if we need to change anything, they will come back to this Riigikogu again in the form of amendments to the law, which may not be the best solution. But I'll take a short look at what I'm saying. We support this draft, but we ask you to support our proposals for improvement, which are technical and essentially focused on ensuring that the duty holders can and should be better exercised. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U358	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U359	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of the Republic, both in this Chamber and on the other side of the screen and, of course, young people, all affected. The Youth Work Act says that a young person is aged 7 to 26 years. At the same time, we treat everyone under 18 in this hall as children. And then we say again that they are, to some extent, young. I would, of course, suggest that we take one age, which is 15, when young people once went to the youth clinic and were registered there. That's what my question was about, exactly, isn't it? Since when are the kids supposed to have this address? Otherwise, they'll have it... Girls like that, we've got a gender-neutral service. What agile solutions exist today, at this point, may not be necessary to write everything into the law. I would just like to give an interesting example of last spring when there was distance learning in schools, when the teacher announced that now we young people are going to do e-learning through this environment. And when it happened to be a good teacher, he listened to the young. Young people said, "Dear teacher, don't take this program that you don't know anything about and that we don't know anything about. " We're in the whole class in the corporate PlayStation system, we're gonna do this part for you, and we're gonna help you. Is there a PlayStation on that list today, or is he not? But we know this Norwegian movie show "Occuped," where the data exchange just happened, let's say. It's like they're trying to sew on a button like a jacket. This button is called eesti.ee. Well, when we put older people in bamboo with vaccine reports, we might be thinking about other functions. I remember right now, sotmin had it on STAR 1, I think they're carving STAR 2. I'm telling you, you could blow it right now, let's do S.T.A.R.A.R. 3, maybe it'll work. I know I.T. guys, they want to do it all the time. I have also stressed in this Chamber that no matter what we give the IT team a task, it must be written in large letters: it must be compatible with existing programs. Because I.T. guys always say, "Which one, he's compatible!" Because no one said we should be compatible with one thing or another. And one problem for me is that I may be wrong about basic education in national defence is a voluntary subject. It is a good thing that this solution is that it introduces this opportunity to young people and that they should know what this environment is and how it will be safe. I think there are other means of communication, of course. In my home, for example, there's a normal wired phone, I pay two euros a month for it, but I pay to be available at the moment of crisis. Yeah, that's the price. Maybe we should introduce them to young people. But what about those schools where the school has not chosen the basic teaching of national defence? It was, in my opinion, a good decision that we did not make it compulsory. We generally know that 7% are always opposed to functioning systems. If it is on a voluntary basis, positive employment will be more than compulsory. Then there would have been a confrontation. I can't tell you how well all these things are thought through, but, if you ask me, from what point he's mandatory for both boys and girls, they should know the answer. And there should also be some sanctions here, otherwise no one will be watching this e-mail. Obviously, I'm not the only one who says here that I've had at least 20 more e-mail addresses, the passwords of which I don't even know where they're all wandering and wrong. And it is very possible that I also have an eesti.ee address. But I don't know that right now, and I don't see the need for it to be. I think today maybe the most official of all is the Riigikogu.ee, that's where I'll be caught. As we know, Gmail is not a safe environment in itself. I do not think it is necessary in law to set out all these channels of communication today, if perhaps by autumn we have Color 6, which is even better, which also works. And most importantly, I think internet providers should...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U360	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U361	No, I don't. Internet providers should also ensure that if there is no electricity, there is an Internet connection. What are they taking so much money from us for?? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U362	There's no more calls. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Amendments have been received. First of all, Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U363	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U364	Okay, let's get to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Bill 324 Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U365	There were 18 delegates in favour of the proposal, against 65. The proposal was not supported. Let's keep going. Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, position of the commission: disregard. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U366	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I would also like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U367	Kalle Grünthal, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U368	Thank you, Mr President. I've seen how many more people are awake behind the screens, according to these votes. Maybe we should keep that signal on the phone for them to wake up. But I leave it to you to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U369	Yeah, well, people have to be able to decide whether they want to fulfill their mandate when they sleep or when they're awake. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U370	There are 18 delegates in favour of the amendment, 63 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3, tabled by the Committee on National Defence, position of the commission: take full account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U371	I would also like to ask the ECR Group to vote on Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U372	Then we shall proceed to the vote immediately. Henn Põllamaas, please! [[Henn Põllamaas says something about the hall.]] Okay, don't go to the vote. The motion has been withdrawn. With this, all the amendments have been examined. We have not received any proposals to interrupt the procedure. The item is therefore exhausted, the second reading closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U373	Let's move on to the agenda. The next item is the second reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 326. I call Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U374	[[He does, but I can't hear him.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U375	Erki, I can't hear you. I can't hear you. I can see that. We can't hear you. A procedure, Kalle Grünthal. Wait a minute, Erki!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U376	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Riigikogu must ensure that all ambassadors can participate in the work of the Riigikogu by speaking, etc. As I believe that this is a problem, I would suggest that we take a short break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U377	Let's try it again, and if it doesn't work out, I guess we'll have to take it again, yeah. Erki Savisaar, please let's try!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U378	So, am I hearing now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U379	Now you're hearing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U380	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! Estonian law is brought into line with the Directives in the fields of insurance and reinsurance activities, as well as markets in financial instruments and the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing of the financial system, by the Financial Supervision Act and the Act amending other laws 326. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 8 February and the first reading took place on 23 February. The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of the second reading, including on 16 March. No amendments were tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline of 10 March at 5.15 p.m. on the draft. The Commission requested an opinion on the draft from stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft by the Ministry of Finance. No further comments were received from them. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to propose the termination of the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is closed, to carry out the third reading and the final vote on 7 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U381	You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U382	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, you just mentioned insurance. Due to the pandemic that began last year and the concern of the organisers of the big concerts in Estonia, it became interesting to know that they did not have the opportunity to insure their own concerts against the pandemic. The only concert tour that could be secured against the pandemic was Rammstein's. What makes it so that insurance companies insure against things that are unlikely, but those that are likely not insured against them? And now we're actually in front of a broken trough as a country. We can't tell concert organizers to make sure insurance companies refuse. Whether this was also under discussion in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, if not, I note that this type of insurance activity on a pan-European basis is a problem for the organisers of major concerts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U383	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question. No, we didn't ask that question. This draft concerns insurance for financial institutions, and from there it does not deal with insurance for all kinds of services and other things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U384	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U385	[[Remote connection]] Good Erki! Maybe you'll remind me of the organizations we asked about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U386	Thank you. That's a good question for you. I wish I had the whole list right here. But if I recall this debate that we had at first reading, for example, then, good Aivar, you also asked whether anything would change for Estonian financial institutions. And the fact was that this law does not bring any changes for Estonian banks. However, the Financial Supervision Authority may become more active in the exchange of information. So, essentially, it is a purely technical draft that does not change anything here in the internal market.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U387	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U388	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Now, from the answer to Aivar Koka, I realized that the only one who could benefit from it is the Financial Inspectorate. We will then ensure that any decisions taken by the Financial Supervision Authority are worth not being challenged. They can decide either way or they can decide one way or the other. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U389	Thank you. No, you didn't get it right about that. The amendments to this directive mainly concern three institutions: the European Banking Authority (EBA), the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) and the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U390	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There are no negotiating requests. The commission has proposed that the second reading be discontinued. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U391	Let us move on to the next item on the agenda. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated the first reading of the Bill 357 of the Supplementary Budget Act 2021, with Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U392	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The objectives of the additional budget for 2021 are to manage Estonia out of the crisis with as little losses as possible, to recover quickly and to re-open Estonia. This pandemic, which has been going on for over a year now, and all uncertainty, will certainly be difficult for everyone, whether it is employers, workers, teachers, children or parents. In fact, everyone is tired and probably cannot wait for the normal or even more normal to return to life. It will be easier if the extent, speed and effects of vaccination allow the restrictions to gradually be lifted again. It is likely to be said that this year is the most important task in terms of mental and physical health, both economic and everyday life. The aim must be that the summer solstice is economic and soul-striking restrictions, soul-spinning restrictions on the ground, so that the burden of doctors, nurses, other health professionals and ambulances, which has been going on for months, can move back to normal rhythm. Managing the country out of the current crisis requires that, in this intervening period, we provide support during the period of forced restrictions in the sectors that have been hit most painfully. This support is limited in time and as precisely as possible targeted, and we are doing this to ensure that as many incomes, jobs and businesses as possible are preserved and supported. We also cover the necessary costs of vaccination, testing and treatment. We will help to alleviate the gaps that this very long period of distance training in education inevitably entails. We support the maintenance and promotion of mental health. That is why the additional budget for 2021 before you today is intended. The additional budget is EUR 640.74 million. The impact of the additional budget on the general government budgetary position, which must also be taken into account during the crisis, is less than EUR 453 million. And, of course, the overall budgetary position is far from being influenced not only by the additional budget, but also by how long the pandemic, this current virus, will break, how long the restrictions that have been imposed to protect health will have to be maintained, where our most important trading partners are, how quickly we can offer vaccination opportunities and how quickly the economy will recover in the summer. This will also have an impact on the budgetary picture and the state of play in the overall year. The additional budget as a whole will certainly have a positive impact on GDP growth compared to today. GDP growth, in turn, will reduce the structural deficit, but the exact impact of the budgetary position will be clear and better understood in the economic forecast at the beginning of April, which will certainly be used by Parliament even before you reach the final reading and adoption of the additional budget. Now from the content of the additional budget itself. EUR 150 million from the additional budget goes to the most immediate front line of the crisis, which is to cover health care, including emergency hospital crisis costs, but also vaccines, vaccination, tests, procurement of coronal medicine and the restoration of the health fund's reserve capital. To ensure that people do not tend to go to work when they are ill, and no matter how sick they go to work, this must not be done, the sickness benefit will continue to be paid until the end of this year from the second day and this cost will be EUR 12 million in an additional budget. Wage support is also considered to be the most effective crisis aid measure and measure in the light of previous year's experience. Praxis analysis says that the payment of wage subsidies to companies hit by the crisis helped to maintain around 65000 jobs last year or, let's say, during the first wave of the virus. This is a very large number and this effective measure must be used again at this stage. The payment of wage subsidies to employees of companies that have suffered a sharp fall in turnover is largely due to the additional budget in March and in April as a whole. It costs EUR 102,2 million from the additional budget and EUR 38 million from the unemployment fund in March, but it is certainly a necessary cost to support and maintain businesses that have suffered a short and really large drop in turnover. Of course, there are also those employers for whom the main cost is not necessarily the cost of wages and who are not sufficiently supported by wage subsidies alone. They also have an extraordinary support package in the supplementary budget, which is a total of EUR 44 million. This concerns the accommodation and catering sector, spas and tour operators, as well as the retail trade, which has had to close its doors due to restrictions. Partial support will be provided by this measure to cover costs other than wage costs, but which companies will have to bear despite restrictions and despite the fact that their activities have essentially ceased and that they have closed their doors for the duration of the restrictions. Like the wage subsidy, the criterion for this support measure is a fall in turnover. Upon the adoption of the additional budget, EAS makes it possible to apply for 50% to 70% of the wage cost for excesses. Understandably, the aim of this mitigation measure is also to ensure that as many jobs as possible can still be maintained in viable companies after the restrictions and the whole pandemic has eased, and that companies are able to reopen their doors as soon as possible when the restrictions are lifted. I say right away that we in the government want to open these subsidies as soon as the additional budget has been adopted by Parliament, and where it is necessary, also in the hands of an urgent State aid authorisation from the European Commission. These disbursements must take place quickly, as the need for this support is certainly very high. This year has been very fickle and difficult in education as well. It has been fickle and difficult for all, schoolchildren, their parents, and teachers. Tackling learning gaps, as has been said, will certainly take time, but an additional EUR 12 million has been earmarked for support in the education sector. The mental health support package includes more support for family doctors' therapy fund, more support for clinical psychologists, but also, for example, an e-psychologist's booking system, so that those in need can receive this support in a personalised way at their own time and place. It must, of course, be said that, more indirectly, this additional budget supports such mental health maintenance and promotion, in addition to the other measures. During the whole period of the pandemic, the cultural sector, which has been essentially forced to pause all year, will receive some €39 million in support from the additional budget, together with the sport sector. This is also directly linked to both economic recovery and support for mental health. Honourable Riigikogu! The additional budget helps to ensure the continuity of the medical system during difficult times, to provide as precisely targeted support as possible to the people and employers of Estonia for a limited period of time, so that the economy and the state of life of all of us can recover in Estonia as soon as possible. These days are complicated. Finally, I would like to say thank you to all those people who have helped to control the pandemic during this whole health crisis, throughout this year and also through responsiblely caring for others, thinking about others, or have helped to control the pandemic. Without such behavior, that would not be possible. In the case of putting together an additional budget, I would also like to say thank you to everyone who has helped put together this relief package and presented it to Parliament in just ten days. Thank you, too, to the parliamentary groups, who did not wait for the additional budget to arrive in this large Chamber, but with whom I was able to start meetings and discussions on the additional budget already before today's debate in this Chamber. I very much hope that the supplementary draft budget will be approved by Parliament and that you will be ready to deal with the additional budget quickly, at a pace appropriate to the crisis. On the government's side, we are, as has been said, prepared to implement the regulations on all subsidies, on the payment of grants, immediately and quickly after Parliament has adopted the supplementary budget. This support is expected and urgently needed at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U393	Dear waitress, You have questions too. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U394	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! The epidemic in hand has a very high price, and unfortunately the famous title of leading the corona disaster belongs to the government of Kaja Kallas. We have now reached a situation where the additional costs that need to be incurred will reach 2% of GDP. You rightly said that in the long term, the vaccines will give us relief, but in the short term, we need to get this epidemic under control as soon as possible. One unused measure to do this is to pay the corona-positive from the first day of sickness 100% of [the current salary] to ensure that people really stay at home. In Question Time of the Riigikogu today, Jaak Aab said that the problem is that 1.25% of the additional budget, or EUR 8 million, is too much money to pay this compensation. The question to you is this: if this really is a very important measure, would you find the EUR 8 million needed so that we can endorse this very necessary measure here in Parliament's proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U395	Thank you. The viral numbers began to go up last November, and this rise, including the very rapid spread of the British strain, has been very rapid. I'm sure one important part of getting the virus under control is what you described so people don't go to work sick, as carriers. This change, made last year during the first wave of the virus and concerning the reimbursement of sick days from the second day, has certainly been important in order for people to have no such additional pressure to hide and go to work. The decision to continue to pay compensation for the sick days that were part of the measures last year when the additional budget was put together is equally important and its cost, EUR 12 million, is quite high for the additional budget and the taxpayer. I followed this debate and debate, which was held today in Riigikogu Question Time, essentially on the same subject. As Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, said, if, for example, the municipalities consider it necessary that the same additional funding from the additional budget for the municipalities, which is EUR 16 million, they wish to use such an additional measure, that is certainly an option. I agree that reimbursement of sick days during the current pandemic has helped and is an important thing that must be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U396	Let me remind my fellow Members that there is one minute to question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U397	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We know that last year's additional budget stopped state contributions to the second pension pillar. The State used this money to cover other costs. It will also do so this year until 1 September. This shouldn't be a surprise to anyone. Today, a large number of pensioners have left the second pension pillar and a 10% tax has also been paid on the amount paid. The same will happen in September when more than 100,000 members of the second pension pillar leave. Income tax is also paid on this amount. Income tax is also paid on the State's compensation for the second pillar calculated in the supplementary budget. Why is the budget not included in the budget as a result of the pension reform? Why is it not possible to tell clearly how much it is? Why is it hidden?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U398	Thank you. You asked a rather similar question at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As a person who has been in charge of both the budget and the supplementary budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for several years, you actually have, I am quite sure, this substantive side quite clear. Of course, the correction of tax receipts is a matter for economic forecasts. The estimate of income tax receipts in the supplementary budget will not be adjusted; this will be done with the spring economic forecast, which, as you are well aware, will be completed at the beginning of April. But since you raised this issue, let it be said that it is the one and only expenditure contained in this supplementary budget that is not linked to the crisis. It is EUR 117 million and is intended to pay those people who, by the end of March, have applied and decided to stop collecting into the second pillar to leave the second pillar. According to the law, they must be compensated in September for the amount which the State, in the meantime, suspended from July of the previous year until September of that year. This obligation comes from the law. However, so far, there was no expenditure item in the main budget for this year which would allow this money to be paid out in September. We need to make this change and this proposal is included in the supplementary budget. The fact that those leaving the second pillar will have to pay income tax and that, to this extent, the forecast of income tax will change has never been a secret and has never, as you are trying to present, been hidden by anyone. The amount of income tax collected will not help in any way or in any way solve the problem that I have just described. The problem was, and is now, that the state has an obligation to compensate for payments by the state to those leaving the second pillar in September, which is due to the law. But there is no money in the budget for this, there has been no budget granting permission to spend. This mistake needs to be corrected. This is why this year's additional budget includes an estimated payment of EUR 117 million to those leaving the second pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U399	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U400	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna keep going on sick days. The spread of infection is uncontrolled and, unfortunately, the restrictions imposed have not had enough effect in more than two weeks to bring the infection rate down to one. You said that people from the second day of sickness would be compensated for staying at home. I agree, it is undoubtedly a good thing that a minimum wage earner now loses EUR 95 instead of EUR 125 if he stays at home. Victory is that too. But if a person has a positive test result and stays at home, we still say that your home stay fine is 95 euros. Thank you, good citizen. In the event of a crisis, would it still not be appropriate not to impose this fine on workers with corona disease and also to ease the contribution of employers, who will have to replace the sick person in any case, and to cover sickness payments from the first day of the Republic government reserve?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U401	Thank you. With the additional budget, it is precisely for the municipalities to make additional costs, the use of which allows each municipality to decide for itself what they consider most appropriate. In other words, use it where they see, on the one hand, the greatest pain and, on the other hand, the benefits rise in order to limit the spread of the virus. If it is intended to be used in this way and it is considered that the most necessary is precisely to cover the additional time of being at home sick for one working day, then this possibility certainly exists. Once again, no one must go to work sick and the change made in the arrangements for the payment of sick days last year to compensate for sick days from day two during the pandemic has had a significant impact. This has been one of the measures that, apparently, has helped quite many to bear this obligation to stay home and to heal themselves at home. The continuation of this measure is also included in the supplementary budget. If anyone wants to add something to the local governments for their part, this possibility exists and, as has been said, at least part of the budget will also be allocated to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U402	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U403	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. The additional budget contains a series of support measures for the tourism sector. Could you explain for a while whether spas and large hotels are here or whether the tourism sector is also in smaller rural areas? Are there only accommodations here, or could there be small catering establishments or cafes here, for example in rural areas? I'm grateful for the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U404	Thank you for your question. It is in no way limited to the location of the company. Here, of course, there is an opportunity to come and seek support for those in trouble, whether they are operating in a smaller region or in a larger region. The criteria are based again on a fall in turnover, a fall in turnover. This concerns accommodation, even smaller accommodation companies, catering, again regardless of size. This also applies to tour operators and tourism providers, which may not even act as a large undertaking, but who, alone or with a very small pool of workers, offer this service and are therefore not greatly helped by wage subsidies. So the fall in turnover, the loss of turnover is a criterion. As I explained in my introductory speech, this grant is not intended to cover salary costs, but is intended to support the rest of their business costs. It may be a rental, it may be a leasing payment, depending on the particular company. You can apply for a benefit from the unemployment fund for salary costs, for wage support. These conditions are all essentially the first to be found on the unemployment fund's website. And those who are not helped by the wage subsidy, regardless of the size and location of the company or the location of the business, are the emergency support measure you asked for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U405	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U406	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, In your speech, you explained nicely what gave rise to this additional budget. But let me ask you about another aspect. Indeed, already at the end of last year, when the initial budget was being processed, the risks of a second wave coming and the need for buffers in the budget had increased. I remember asking during the budget procedure where these second-wave budget buffers are. Then I was told that, oh, we have euro grants coming up right now and there are EAS financial instruments that were transferred from last year. Now they're nowhere to be found. How do you explain to the Ministry of Finance that these buffers weren't created? Was there an indifference to the risks associated with the increase in infection rates at the end of last year, or was budget expenditure not intended to be shown to the extent it was? Maybe I'm wrong in my conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U407	Thank you. Who exactly can see inside the heads of the previous government? If the manager behind me could answer that question, he would certainly have an answer. But probably the estimate was that the second wave wouldn't break as bad as we see it right now. It is true that the Health Board had already warned of new waves in July last year. But yes, when we are talking about planning the costs of health-related testing and vaccination, they were also made with a much more lenient new wave than what we are seeing now. Now about KredEx and EAS. The additional budget for last year, even KredEx, did not actually use most of the measures. There must have been different reasons. But the money we didn't put in was actually transferred to that year. For example, through KredEx, 180 million euros can be used for companies' current loans and loan guarantees. If it should prove that there is greater interest and need for such assistance this time, during this wave, KredEx itself will also have an additional reserve that can be used to increase these amounts. But yes, in that sense, a good questioner, you were right that this new virus wave and the restrictions that accompany this wave were certainly not taken into account last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U408	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U409	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Wage support is certainly a very important measure; it helps to prevent job losses. But my question is about these people, about 60,000 people whose jobs have disappeared. A very large part of them is in a situation where their unemployment benefit period is beginning to run out. They have either fallen on income support or receive unemployment benefit, which is a few hundred euros per month and cannot be lived with. We support everyone else, but for some reason I do not find these people in this supplementary budget, for example, that there is an exceptional plan to increase income support. Please tell me why there is no support for these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U410	Thank you. Together with the Minister for Health and Labour, we are currently dealing with a very rapid analysis of unemployment insurance and the payment of [unemployment benefit], precisely in the key that you described that those who lost their job during last year's emergency and at the beginning of the crisis, or those who were hit hardest, are about to end this period. It is clear that unemployment is now increasing, not decreasing. In this situation, finding a job in the midst of a crisis is not very easy, rather the opposite. So what we are discussing is not even so much a one-time change, but a review of the system so that account is taken of the situation in the labour market and the economy at all. If there is a period when we are back in labour shortages and when people are being hunted by matchfire in all sectors, there is certainly a shorter need for support than it is for periods that are directly linked to the economic crisis when it is very difficult to find a job. Otherwise, at the height of the crisis, the same situation that you have described will come to an end when the period of support will end. How to deal with it in detail, we are working on it now, because on the other hand, it is clear once again that, precisely in times of economic crisis, the pressure on the budget is greatest, and this will certainly increase the pressure further. This is an issue that must also be addressed in the current crisis, but not just in the key to the current crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U411	Henn Põllamaas, please! Henn, we can't reach you. Let's try to start over for a second. Can't hear and can't see, Henn. In the meantime, let's go to the next questioner. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U412	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'm gonna keep going on sick days. In addition to the fact that the first day of sickness is not being reimbursed at the moment, the coronal fine mentioned by Mr Sikkut also concerns the amount of compensation: the current day of sickness is 70% of the previous salary. However, as there is an overwhelming public interest in the case of patients with corona, I think it is obvious that the State will have to pay 100% of this compensation. We are in a situation where the Health Board says that the restrictions imposed have not had the expected effect and that we still need to reduce the growth of infections by about 10%. Consequently, since it is an epidemic and is spreading throughout the country, I do not think it is correct to place this responsibility on the local authorities. My question is this: if social professionals, public health specialists agree that this measure should be reimbursed 100% of the first day, will you, the honourable Minister of Finance, find these EUR 8 million to implement this necessary measure, so that it is not behind the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U413	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question. I cannot say for sure whether this 8 million euros you have referred to is the exact number to the end. Of course, no one wanted or intended to put responsibility on the municipalities; it is not the responsibility of the municipalities. It was simply a reference to the fact that the same additional funding for municipalities, if they consider it reasonable and necessary, can also be used to cover these costs. Certainly, once again, it is not the responsibility of the municipalities and it cannot be. As far as the current system is concerned, it is not wrong, in itself, that the system still includes an element of ownership. I think this is something that should definitely not be taken out of this compensation system. Once again, if the municipalities wish and they think that this is necessary, they will be able to pay it out of the money allocated to them by the additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U414	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U415	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Has the government also thought about families with two, three or more children when drawing up an additional budget, where there is a great need for additional computers, microphones and a more powerful Internet in connection with distance learning and teleworking, because the work of schoolwork and parent work are carried out simultaneously and one or two computers available in the family cannot be shared with another family member? It is inextricable that families have incurred high additional costs in this regard, in terms of organisation of work and school work. Many have taken new bank loans. I have a question: what measures have been envisaged by the government in the supplementary budget to alleviate such families and their economic situation? The second question is also: how do parents, parents with multiple-child families who have remained unemployed, and children need to take part in distance learning and there are no or no computers at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U416	Thank you. These two questions are a little related. The additional budget is EUR 500000 under the Ministry of Education and Research to support the purchase of computers. This is in itself an already ongoing programme of the Ministry of Education and Research, municipalities and the Estonian Children's Protection Association, which is designed precisely to support those families where this need is really multiple children who have to take part in distance learning, and in addition parents have to work or vice versa, as you described, the parent has lost his job and cannot simply afford to buy a computer. That's exactly what the money is for. With this money, 1700 computers should be available, and the Estonian Child Welfare Association is the partner through which these computers should reach the right place with the help of local governments. In addition to computers, of course, the issue of Internet access is also linked to this issue. It is known that there are families who cannot afford a package that would allow a very fast internet. Like last spring, 1 million out of the 16 million euros that go to the same municipalities are booked or accounted for specifically to ensure internet access. This does not mean that someone comes home to transport the cable, but that [the students] are essentially given small mobile Internet-enabled sticks to ensure that a child who needs to take part in distance learning, distance learning is not missed because he or she does not have a computer or a fast internet connection. They're both in the extra budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U417	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U418	[[Remote connection]] Good waitress! The man behind you, as you said, presented the budget to the Riigikogu last year with the words that the money is going somewhere, and he is not going to the molehole. Yesterday, he told the ERR that the party of the current Prime Minister had called for the balance of the budget last year. Please tell me if he was telling the truth last night and... [[The connection's breaking up.]] Please tell me whether he was telling the truth and why the budget you presented is different from what happened last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U419	Thank you. Unfortunately, part of the question went missing in this Chamber. The difference between this additional budget and last year's additional budget is certainly that it is targeted as precisely as possible. It contains only the reliefs associated with the crisis, by excluding one major problem that needs to be solved in connection with the modification of the payment of the second [pension pillar]. I think these are the most important [divergences]. It is short-term, time-limited, as precisely as possible targeted support for these places, sectors, those people most in need of this assistance in the current crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U420	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U421	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! I, too, come to the sickness benefit. What you're saying is that we're giving emergency assistance to the local government, and they should see for themselves whether they're giving it to people to pay for sick days or not, but I'm sorry, but it sounds pretty cynical, especially six months before the local elections. Where now the troll will be going to the municipalities, who will offer 30, who 40, who with 22 knuckles. That's not a normal government attitude. This number, 8,5 million comes from your own house with your own signature, and if that number is not accurate, I don't know how to handle all the other numbers you gave us today. I would still like to understand what the government is so opposed to helping people with the little that can help. Why do you not hesitate or doubt entrepreneurs, but when we talk about working people who are unable to stay home for teleworking, you hesitate and doubt?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U422	Thank you, good questioner! I didn't question that $8 million in any way, I just really don't have it right now. If you have the answer you are referring to, then you are privileged in that sense, I just don't have it to use right now. And once again, there's no point in looking for an enemy where it doesn't exist. I also described, in reply to the previous questions, precisely that this has been an important measure. The current supplementary budget includes the continuation of the scheme decided last year. There is also a liability for one day inside, and this concerns the reimbursement of sickness days from the second day. It is included in the current supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U423	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U424	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, manager. Good minister! We are now trying to split up all these measures: wage measures and all the other reliefs associated with the crisis. What percentage of the measures under consideration does the wage subsidy involve? How much does this concern the first sector, the second sector and the third sector? I am thinking of the private, public and non-profit sector. And how much does the public sector pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U425	Thank you. If this was a question of public sector wages, I would point out that public sector salaries are not really affected by this additional budget. The amount to be allocated to the salary allowance for March and April is EUR 102,2 million. An additional EUR 44 million is foreseen for the private sector, including accommodation, retail, catering, spa and tour operators, which are intended to cover part of the costs other than salary costs. A very large part of the cultural package is also linked not to national cultural institutions, but precisely to the private sector. So, yes, if you asked about wages, I can say that wages and such permanent expenditure-enhancing measures do not include an additional budget. I think this has actually been a very important principle, because if we increased fixed costs with an additional budget, we would soon be in a very difficult situation. These [current measures] are limited in time and targeted at those sectors where pain is greatest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U426	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U427	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The highest power in Estonia is given by the people, and this nation has now sent me a message that I am asking to convey to you in the form of a question. A large number of people who have become unemployed are involved in banks, leasing companies and home loans. However, if there is no job, no payments can be made. That's a fact. Question: what have you, as Minister of the Reform Party, done to alleviate the situation of these people? What are the measures, in negotiations with banks, to suspend any interest payments or to suspend any payment of loans at all? I'd like to know. Or do you, the Reform Party government, or Reform Party, plan to give extra budget money only to a soup kitchen to keep people alive?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U428	Thank you, good questioner! The main objective of this additional budget is to ensure that those who lose their jobs are kept as short as possible in this crisis and that people can keep their jobs, despite the fact that employers are currently in very serious difficulties. Those who have already lost their jobs, as you are referring to, are precisely the payment of unemployment benefit, which we talked about earlier. This is a measure and an opportunity to be used. For these people, too, the goal must be to get back to work as soon as possible. As far as the approach of banks to people in such difficulties is concerned, I believe that the banks themselves have also called, pointed out and asked these people to contact the bank as soon as possible before their problems build up very much. In this case, a solution will be sought. While your question concerned workers who have lost their jobs, I take this opportunity, among other things, to recall what concerns entrepreneurs, employers and the payment of taxes. There is also a question of whether this year, at this stage of the crisis, it will be possible to postpone taxes and also to reduce interest rates. There's a chance. Again, it is advisable to contact the tax authorities and find a solution as soon as possible before problems arise. If there is a possibility to apply such a quick automatic timing, this applies to debts of less than EUR 20000 with a schedule of up to 12 months, then an interest rate discount or discount of 100% will automatically be applied. But the suggestion is really not to wait for problems to accumulate, but to contact the tax authorities early, because the desire to adopt a flexible approach and find a solution quickly is certainly there for the tax administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U429	Kalle Grünthal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U430	Thank you. Dear Minister, I don't know if I can't make myself clear or what the question is. I asked what the government has done to solve this problem with banks and leasing companies. What has the government done? But you tell me what a man should do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U431	Kalle, a procedural question must be put to the President and the Minister does not have to answer that question. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U432	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U433	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U434	Very good. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, First of all, I want to say that we have a kotermann on the Internet. I was in line earlier, but the Internet kicked me out, and then I lost my seat on the line. But it's okay. Question to the Minister: could you, in the meantime, clarify the subject I dealt with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs when I asked whether the additional budget in question was intended to provide support for the beauty services sector, both for private companies and for self-employed people? If so, what amounts can we talk about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U435	Yes, this is probably a sector that is primarily concerned with wage subsidies. They will benefit from the same level of wage support. This is no longer linked to EAMTAK codes, but concerns those whose turnover has fallen as well as self-employed people. If the fall in turnover has been significant compared to December 2019 and January and February 2020, the subsidy is eligible. This answer also applies to benefactors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U436	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U437	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I cannot hold back the irony when I hear a member of the parliament of the Reform Party trying to put his inadequacy and the chaos of the country on the back of the previous government, specifically the current vice-chairman. It's grotesque and ridiculous, and I suggest you give it up. But, of course, I will also ask the Minister for Finance a question, and this is the following. We have heard a lot and read that our health care system is quite critical. At the same time, is there a plan in the state budget, in the supplementary budget, perhaps also in the plans of the Ministry of Social Affairs to launch wage negotiations and negotiations on working conditions with the representative organisations of the Estonian Nurses Association and other health professionals, so that we do not find the collapse of the health care system even after the sharp edge of the crisis may have been somewhat behind us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U438	Thank you, good questioner! I think that the questions of the members of the Reform Party Group have been very relevant. But as far as wage negotiations are concerned, I can tell you that they do. I can't tell if they're being held in these minutes, but they do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U439	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U440	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, One of the lessons of this crisis is indeed rapid data availability and... [[The connection's breaking up.]] Obviously, we cannot say that Estonia is doing well with this, and let us be honest, sharing Internet sticks does not really solve the problem. It's still in the cable in the ground, even in the case of 5G. But my question is more specifically about front-line workers. In addition to health professionals, there are a large number of social workers in the municipality sector, who are doing a hell of a lot of overtime. Does the additional budget provide any means to compensate for their work so that the municipality receives additional revenue from the additional budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U441	Thank you. Yes, sharing Internet sticks, of course, will not solve this problem. This can be largely resolved with the support of euro money, which is about moving high-speed internet connections to all parts of Estonia. But right now it was just a situation that this problem had to be solved quickly. The same distance learning, distance learning, affects these weeks and months, but it takes a lot longer to make this big connection program. Of course, it would be good if it had been done by now, but here we are, all right? So in this sense, it was a necessary decision, otherwise very many would have been in very great trouble. The coverage of social expenditure has increased, but also during the changed pandemic period, which municipalities have had to bear, has also been taken into account for the additional budget allocated to municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U442	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U443	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress and good minister! The new NETS plan is to introduce a new form of the disease sheet or a justification for the disease sheet and it is intended for close contact during quarantine: a close contact working person can be present on the sick page. I understand that the aim is to maintain jobs, but it imposes an additional burden on businesses. In addition to the workers on the sick leave, they will have to pay sickness benefits for those in quarantine from the second to the sixth day. I have a question that if the company goes bankrupt, there will be no jobs. In this sense, this measure or decision seems somewhat strange and funny. I have a question: why was it decided to impose additional burdens on entrepreneurs instead of finding the means to make sure that the sickness fund itself compensates for these sick days? I mean precisely those quarantined people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U444	Thank you. These so-called quarantine sheets are subject to the same principle of reimbursement as regular sick leave. It was simply found that the continuation of a similar solution or the use of the same scheme for quarantine leaves is more reasonable than the construction of a new and other parallel system. That was the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U445	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U446	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Madam Secretary! First of all, please answer my previous question, which was lost because of the connection. Is it true that the man behind you stated yesterday on television that the opposition demanded a budgetary balance from him during the crisis? That was the first question. Now the second question: please tell me how, in your knowledge, the most urgent costs of this year's budget have been excluded, those required by the law amending the system of the second pension pillar, and the amounts involved in vaccination and testing. How could that have happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U447	Thank you. During the crisis, the balance of the budget has not been called for by anyone in this Chamber, but a sound and responsible monetary policy. The use of a loan, borrowing at a time of crisis, regardless of what year the crisis is, is likely to be quite inevitable, this must be done. However, even then, when using the loan, it is important how the loan will be used, where the loan will be directed, whether it will cover temporary one-off costs specifically linked to the crisis, or longer-term costs, and whether it will also increase the running costs. That is certainly not the last thing to do; we have always been critical in this regard. How did it happen that the basic budget for 2021, which was approved in this very Chamber last December, was excluded both from compensating the second pillar for payments by the state as well as from several expenditures related to the crisis and the pandemic? I've been asking you that, too, and I haven't really found an answer. As far as the second pillar, the costs of the second pillar, is concerned, one of the reasons that is brought from time to time is that in the early autumn of last year, the Supreme Court was still in the middle of a dispute about what would become of changing the pension system. This Supreme Court decision came in October. In such cases, it is common practice that, if the government is aware that the country may be threatened next year with one major expense depending on the judgment, then it is normal for money to be left to the government reserve fund, which can be used if necessary. If there is no need, this money will remain in the reserve fund. I'm afraid they didn't. At the moment, we have little to do with hindsight, except that this obligation, which is to be covered by the budget and which results from the law, must be covered. The only way to do this now is to allocate funds to this in the supplementary budget, which is why we have allocated 117 million euros. This sum is calculated and its final size will be determined when we know exactly how many exits from the second pillar are. At present, this amount is estimated to be EUR 117 million. If we did not make this provision, this decision would not be possible and there would not be grounds for paying the compensation required by law to those leaving the second pillar in the next September. We certainly cannot and must not allow this to happen. The expenditure related to vaccination and testing has been or has been intended to be covered, in particular, by the Government Reserve Fund and not by the basic budget. The problem has been that the amount of the government reserve fund at the end of January, when the new, current government took office, was EUR 33.9 million. At the same time, the costs associated with the pandemic and to be covered were already known at more than EUR 40 million. And again, at the expense of last year's scraps, we also have a chance to raise the government reserve fund a little bit. But the costs directly linked to the virus, linked to the eradication of the virus, which are linked to the organisation of vaccination, testing and vaccination, all logic states that they must also be reflected in the budget, not only and not necessarily in the reserve fund. So that is why we have a request to the Riigikogu to provide for these expenses in the additional budget, and therefore there are quite large amounts on the lines of additional budget expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U448	A procedural question, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U449	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It's really procedural. I ask the President of the sitting how it is consistent with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act and good practice that delegates attack the President of the sitting who, according to the rules of procedure, cannot defend themselves and enter the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U450	According to the Rules of Procedure, I should ask someone else to come to the chair by the time I myself go to the big room to ask questions or protest. But I believe that this debate will last so long that I can spend my time and then [questions or protests]. And what does the Reform Party have to do with good practice? Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U451	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. For starters, good Martin, your strength and strength to lead the trial! Make your rules of procedure and home very clear, as I have recently seen that there are a lot of experts in this Chamber. But now the question. Good Keit, here's my question. There are a lot of things in this extra budget, but I'm asking you about what's not in it, maybe it's still the reimbursement of sick days from day one. We know that... [[The connection's breaking up.]] Just as we can work...... Maybe it's not all we need. Even the Prime Minister went sick a few times in the Riigikogu session...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U452	Rock, Rock!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U453	But for those who go to work every morning to cook bread, milk cows, whatever, it's very important. My question to you is, choose between the three options what you think is right. Do you think that compensation for the first day is too expensive, that it is unfair, or that it is inefficient in terms of health? Please choose one of these three options.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U454	Thank you, good Kalvi, for offering a very kind choice. In any event, reimbursement of sick days and reimbursement of these allowances from the additional budget at this stage is necessary. With the additional budget, we have proposed continuing to pay this compensation, as it was decided last year in exceptional times during the pandemic, starting from the second day. This is also the proposal that the government has now brought before Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U455	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U456	[[Remote connection]] Good afternoon. Am I audible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U457	You're audible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U458	Thank you! Good Minister of Finance! The previous speaker asked about the payment of compensation for the first day of sickness. It is assumed that if a person receives money from the first day of illness and they are not only sick people who need to be at home but also have close contact with them, it is like a medicine that, in any case, limits the spread of the disease. However, more and more people have emerged who take advantage of this opportunity because it is rightfully given to them. Being in close contact doesn't stop them from doing their own business, for example, they call and ask if they can do driving lessons and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U459	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U460	... beauty treatments. My question to you is actually a question to the government and to you as a representative of the government. Has the government discussed what else should be done to ensure that all those who have been paid for by the state or businesses actually stay at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U461	Thank you. If this question is about people who are sick, I must say that, in the case of patients, the change that was made last year to compensate for their sick days following the outbreak of an emergency situation and a pandemic, on the basis of which the person is partly compensated for his or her current salary from the second day he or she is still staying home, is certainly an important part of it. When this question concerns those who are in close contact, one of the previous questioners at the same time referred to an amendment pending before the Riigikogu, which, in order to compensate for the so-called quarantine sheets, applies the same solution, referred to the same scheme. If I understood this question correctly, I can say that both of them will certainly support and help it. But in fact, people who stay at home, who comply with both precepts and restrictions and rules, simply care about their loved ones and avoid as many contacts as possible, are in fact very much in Estonia, they are in the majority. They must be thanked and commended for doing so. As I said in the introduction, there would be no other way out of this pandemic at any point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U462	A procedural question. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U463	[[Remote connection]] The President's sentence: "What does the Reform Party have to do with good practice?'. Please tell me how this sentence is consistent with the good practice of the Riigikogu and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U464	A good, sharp political debate is still in line with good practice. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U465	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, good minister, for your constructive answers. The most important measure in the supplementary budget is undoubtedly the support of the unemployment fund. Unfortunately, tourism in Estonia is seasonal. Many rural tourism companies are only open six to eight months a year, and a two or three-month hole hits them hardest because they have to earn the entire annual income during the summer season. The unemployment fund measure does not help them, however, as it requires employees to be in the register already in January. Demanding that they hire workers when they are closed is as unfair as requiring strawberry pickers to be sent to the field in January. You mentioned emergency support covering fixed costs in the tourism sector. Very good, but it does not help rural tourism companies enough. Are you willing to seek a compromise in this procedure so that rural tourism companies are not discriminated against and that their labour costs are also compensated by some measure? If this does not happen, it will lead to the closure of these businesses, which will hit their workers and their families in the country the most painfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U466	Thank you. I do not quite agree, and in fact I did not understand why the same exceptional measure, which is intended precisely to cover the type of costs which are not covered by remuneration [the measure], should in any way help less or not help rural enterprises or tourism enterprises. On the contrary, the purpose of this additional emergency measure has been precisely to provide support to those who are not adequately supported by the wage measure or who are not assisted by the wage measure. If there are concrete proposals for a regulation on this measure and a grant regulation, it is certainly possible to do so in the Commission and to clarify the background. I would say now that this support measure, both for accommodation and actually for catering, which is not a wage measure, but which is intended to support other costs, will, in any case, help and have an impact in rural areas as well. But obviously this is such a detailed debate, which must be continued either in the Commission or outside the large hall or in addition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U467	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that a question should be asked in a minute. I assume Jürgen Ligi has a procedure. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U468	[[Remote connection]] Yes, I have a procedural question and I ask you to answer this time. According to the Rules of Procedure, the President of the meeting does not take part in the political debate and, according to good practice, does not share his assessments of the opposition- coalition according to his seat. Please tell me whether you intend to continue in this style, as was the sentence that one party had nothing to do with good practice. Do you think this is in line with your current position and role?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U469	Thank you. I certainly do not intend to continue the political debate here with Jürgen Ligi under the name of procedural questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U470	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! My question is about the Maarjamäe complex, so as not to talk about the corona. You have now decided at the corona epicenter to begin the expedition of Maarjamäe complex in 1918, which took place under Captain Shchastny, in honor of the formation of obelisk and tributaries. Open it up a little bit. It's in an unreformed state country, and there's a lot of confusion. Why are you doing this job now and how much is it going to cost? I've heard 3 million euros. But I do know that there is perhaps EUR 0.7 million in the current budget for the purchase of oxygen equipment. What's the connection? Open up some of that background, the current mary mountain complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U471	Thank you. It doesn't have anything to do with the extra budget. You might want to open up more of your own background, which you refer to, who cleans up and what cleans up. In my current form, I can say that this is not linked to the additional budget, and it is certainly not intended to be covered in any way by the additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U472	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U473	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Minister! In this extra budget, the Department of Defense doesn't have a line. That makes perfect sense, because through the Ministry of Defence, we cannot in any way support companies or people, and they do not play a primary role in combating the virus. However, should they incur extraordinary costs, for example, a field hospital will go back on track like last spring or the defence allies will be used to enforce the restrictions or something else that the Government of the Republic considers necessary, how will these costs be compensated? Should they then be covered by the reserve of the Government of the Republic, or do you have some other, better solution for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U474	Thank you. This type of extraordinary expenditure can really be covered by the government reserve fund, which is what the government reserve fund is really meant for. Let's hope we don't need it. But if there is a cost that cannot be planned now, then there is a government reserve fund to cover it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U475	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U476	[[Remote connection]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you for your overview of the budget. However, my question once again concerns sick days. How is it, then, that we take the loan together as a state and that the municipalities are now in a state of compulsion when people start turning there? The municipalities actually decide how to compensate. Our goal for a loan, as I read in the explanatory memorandum, is to cope with both the disease crisis and the economic crisis. The Social Committee discussed the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, and both large companies and small businesses were in fact of the opinion that the best measure would be for the state to take on compensation at that time. Businesses would then also be treated equally, and this would actually be a very good measure to deal with both the economic and health crisis. Why do you object?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U477	Thank you, good Helmen! I have already replied to some of the earlier questioners that I can now describe, defend and present the additional budget that the government has presented to Parliament. The change in the reimbursement of sick days that was made last year during the crisis has played an important role in making it easier for those who are sick to stay at home and not to be under additional stress because of the reduction in pay. We have been of the opinion that it has been reasonable to maintain one day's participation in compensation for these working days, those working days that have been left home sick, and that is why the current proposal, which is included in the additional budget of the government, is precisely the extension of the amendment introduced last year for the time of the crisis until the end of this year. But first of all, as I emphasised earlier, it is not and cannot in any way be the responsibility of the municipality to cover an additional day. However, if someone decides to do so, then he really has the right to do so, there is no conflict here. The measure of compensation for sick days included in the additional budget submitted by the Government concerns compensation from the second day onwards, precisely because the own contribution would be maintained. There is no point or reason to seek out an enemy for this question and proposal that you have repeatedly asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U478	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U479	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue on the same subject. I am very touched by your support and praise for the responsibility that you have already repeatedly mentioned that this is a good component of the sick list. That sounds pretty cynical to me. Who are we talking about? We are talking about people who cannot stay on teleworking, we are talking about people who are last in line for vaccination and whose vaccination is being postponed. We're talking about the private sector, shoppers, factory workers, etc. Minister, we do not currently hold a weather debate on social policy choices in this Chamber. We are in a corona disaster, and we urgently need to make the necessary decisions to get the infection down. Is it conceivable, and can we agree to put these weather disputes aside now and make this decision to compensate 100% of the first day of sickness? Are you open to this decision, as was the case today at Question Time with Minister Aab?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U480	Thank you. The supplementary budget is presented by the Government in the form of sickness benefit from the second day. If Parliament has a desire to continue this debate and there is an overwhelming majority in Parliament that there is no need for ownership, then it is certainly a debate that must be held in Parliament. As has been said, I can now present and explain to you the additional budget that the government has approved and with which I am here before you today. I have already explained its contents several times, and I am now able to stick to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U481	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U482	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is undoubtedly important and necessary that the additional budget be dealt with at a speedy pace so that the funds reach those in need. However, spring economic forecasts are coming in the coming weeks or in the coming weeks, which also reflects the forecast of the costs and benefits of the second pillar reform. The question is this: did the Government of the Republic also discuss the possibility of bringing to the Riigikogu an additional budget for finalized and better input, drawn up after receiving fresh data? Why is it now a desire to close this extra budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U483	Thank you. This was certainly an alternative, a choice that had to be made: do you expect, in essence, another three weeks, or even a little more, from the approval of the additional budget by the government and submit an additional budget with all these support measures later? But that didn't make any sense. In favour of the content of the supplementary budget, which is precisely to help these rapid support measures into the economy, this would not have changed. That is why we considered it reasonable, and I would also ask Parliament, that the sooner this support reaches those who are looking forward to it, the better. The economic forecast comes at the beginning of April, on 5 April, but it would not have changed the content of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U484	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U485	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still asking about sick days. I think that we are arguing as if this could have been done before the corona crisis, that what is the role of ownership and what kind of measure is working. It was very good to hear confirmation from you, as well as from the Prime Minister in Question Time, that the second-day compensation measure is good, it works, it allows sick people to stay at home. It is excellent that it has been confirmed that more generous compensation for sick days reduces the amount of work that you get when you are sick. That is exactly the case and, of course, the measure must continue. But our current task is to reduce the spread of the infection, so we need more sick people to stay home. We need not only to continue a workable measure, but we need an even better workable one. In this context, would it not be appropriate to compensate the COVID positive from day one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U486	Thank you. The final review, which we also received in the cabinet, really says that 16% of those who say that they were likely to get their disease from the workplace continue to be 16%. It's big enough, obviously too big. And, of course, all of these possibilities that are used are that this number should be further reduced to.. I think all of them should be considered. I am not going to repeat again several times what I can say about the additional budget that it has put forward. It also includes a change to pay sickness benefit until the end of the year from the second day onwards, directly and substantially supports the reduction in the number of people in work. But, of course, there are still these measures, including compliance with all safety measures at workplaces. This, too, certainly needs to be done wherever it is possible. This, too, has an important role to play.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U487	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U488	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On my first question, I asked you about the highest power, about the people, about what must be done by those people who are in trouble paying back loans to banks, as well as other payments to leasing companies. My question was: what has the government done to alleviate their situation? Have they started any negotiations with the banks? I'm listening to your answer, you're saying yes, people have to go, start talking to some kind of tax authority. Essentially, your answer means that the government has not dealt with it. I remember very well when your representatives told us to give us the power, we're gonna show you. I think you're nothing. Why don't you care about the people in loan slavery? Please comment on whether my approach is wrong or correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U489	Thank you. If I may, I wouldn't make that assessment that you asked for at the end. But once again, the government has been in contact with the banks, Andres Sutt, and that is where the information I provided in reply to your previous question comes from. Those who are directly and directly affected by this concern are, I think, quite well aware of that. The advice and desire of the banks is that these people make it known as soon as possible and contact the bank as soon as possible. There's hardly any government mediation on this matter that anyone's waiting and there can't be. Once again, one of the most important objectives of this entire supplementary budget is that this type of people, as you describe, who lose their income, get into difficulties, lose their jobs, have as little work as possible and that people remain in employment even if the crisis begins to ease and businesses can open their doors again. Those who are currently unemployed will certainly benefit primarily from the unemployment fund and the corresponding benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U490	Priit Onion has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U491	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. It should have been my turn to ask the minister now, but when the minister answered the one before, the system pushed me out, and now I'm on hold again 13. I understand I'm not the only one with this problem. Rene Chef referred to the same subject. Do we know what the problem with this system is that we have to wait an hour to ask the Minister a question, or does it have a more sensible solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U492	I have to say, I don't know what's wrong with the system. If you want, I can let you ask me that question right now. And if other members of the community have similar concerns, please report them to our technical assistance. Then I can do something about it. But I'm giving Priit Onion the floor for a question right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U493	For the sake of the whole truth, the state budget this year does not relate to the income and expenditure of the second pension pillar. As you have rightly said, expenditure has been included in the supplementary budget, but revenue has not. Waiting for spring forecast. Understood. But it really is in the interest of the whole truth that there were neither in the current budget. These revenues will also be collected, and the coalition has provided for an extraordinary pension increase. I have a question, too. You referred to the question of a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, that you have also examined that, for some reason, there are no various measures in the budget relating to the health and economic crisis, and now you have to make additional budgets. You've asked a lot of people, but you haven't gotten an answer. I want to know who you've been asking and what questions you've been asking. It seems to me that Tanel Kiik and Taavi Aas, who are the people involved in the so-called largest fields, should still know the answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U494	Thank you. If, in the course of making an additional budget, it turns out that one large expenditure of EUR 117 million has been excluded from the basic budget, of course, these are the questions that I think every Minister for Finance should be asking who should be in such a situation. Explanations have also been sought by those who, on the technical side, help to put together the budget each year, and it is true that there is no good explanation for this. As far as testing and vaccine costs are concerned, as has been said, this government coalition, to which you were a member, obviously had a desire and a belief that these costs could be covered purely and exclusively from the government reserve fund. The government reserve fund, by its nature, is for extraordinary, one-off expenses. The fact that we have a pandemic, that we need to cover the costs of both testing and vaccination, is not something that became clear at the beginning of this year. It is therefore logical that these expenditures are included in the additional budget and budget, not only in the Government Reserve Fund. That is why we are proposing this to correct this mistake as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U495	Heljo Pikhof, please! [[No connection.]] Dear Heljo Pikhof, you have not been heard. All right, good fellows, let's move on right now. If Heljo puts himself back on the list of questioners, I hope you don't mind if I move him forward, because the connection just went down. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U496	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I may be paranoid, although I do not think I am, but my very strong sense is that you have on your side the so-called missing money of the second pension pillar, raising 117 million euros all the time to the fore, obviously a political information operation. If this is not a political information operation, then I have another feeling: you have not made your point. You have not made it clear who has stopped who has left...... the financial results are the suspension, the departure... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U497	Dear Mart Helme! The end of your question was not heard either; the last 15 to 20 seconds completely disappeared. I ask the respondent whether you had a sense of what Mart Helme wanted to ask, or if you want Mart Helme to ask the same question again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U498	Yeah, I think I understood the idea of the question more or less, although really about half of the question was lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U499	Got it. Then let's make sure I don't take this issue into account right now. I ask, as I said to Heljo Pikhof, that if Mart Helme heard, he would press his question button back in and ask again. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U500	I just said the thought was understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U501	The situation has now arisen that we already have two members of the Riigikogu not been able to exercise our rights under the Rules of Procedure. Last time we were here on Wednesday, the disturbance started to increase. I have a proposal to the President-in-Office that maybe we could take a short break and have this system checked, and the Minister, too, can catch his breath.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U502	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. I'm sure at some point I'm going to take this break opportunity, but let's try to keep going. I agree with you that if we fail to do so, then in any case [recess] must be taken. Minister, do you want to answer as much as it was to understand Mart Helme's question? As President, I do not take this issue into account, so if Mart Helme wishes, he can ask again. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U503	Yeah, thanks! In response to this first part, the first one to raise the problems of the second pillar and the problems of EUR 117 million outside the basic budget for 2021 was not me, but a honourable member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Of course, if it is to be treated in this form, I am prepared to do so. As regards those to whom and what needs to be compensated, because, as far as possible, this was the second part of Mart Helme's question, this compensation, which is enshrined in the law and which must be included by the state in September, concerns payments suspended by the State in the meantime. From the summer of last year until 1 September of this year, the State suspended 4% of its payments to all those who joined the second pillar. This must now be compensated ex post for those who, at the end of March, make a statement and wish to leave the second pillar. Hence this amount, it is very large, estimated at 117 million. The exact number of these people will become clear on 31 March, then the clock will fall and the deadline will end if they have to submit their application. At present, it has been taken into account that there are 170,000 departures, and that is the best estimate to take. Whether this number is larger or smaller, it becomes clear, as has been said, on 31 March. However, it must also be stressed once again that everyone who has already submitted his or her application has the right and the opportunity to withdraw that application. There are people who take advantage of this opportunity. It was an explanation to whom exactly what to compensate for. This is linked to compensation for payments suspended by the State in the meantime, the obligation to comply with which is explicitly laid down by the law, and this money must be paid out in September of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U504	Thank you. Now, I'm asking you to give the microphone to Heljo Pikhof, let's do another test. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U505	[[Remote connection]] I thank you for the answers you have given so far. But I also have a question. We know many cases where a person working in a large company gets a positive test and then only gives up three or four close contacts with the Health Board, because his employer has asked him not to turn everyone in. In particular, the employer has to bear very high costs when a fire occurs, i.e. the company will be detained in certain cases and half of the sickness allowance will be borne by him. Since you do not support the first day and 100% reimbursement of sick days, what steps is the government planning to take to prevent businesses from hiding close contacts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U506	Thank you. If you are aware of such cases as you said at the outset, then you should definitely inform the Health Board that there are such alleged stories where someone has forbidden you to report close contacts. You can't do that. You have to let the Health Department know about it. In fact, it is also in the employer's own interest to find out as soon as possible who this person is, who has given a positive test, so that this person does not create a major college in this particular work group. Employers themselves have actually spoken quite a lot, especially recently, about the possibility of using rapid tests. It is no secret that there is a certain scepticism about the use of rapid tests. One of the reasons why it has been found that a wider introduction of rapid tests is not correct is the opinion that taking a rapid test is that it has been done correctly, properly and that this test shows as close as possible to the true result of the test, and that it simply cannot be done by everyone. This should only be done under the guidance or supervision of a medical or healthcare professional to ensure that this is not a false negative result. Nevertheless, I think that the interest of employers is precisely to use rapid tests to find as soon as possible people who are coronal positive. It's perfectly understandable. I myself believe that the use of rapid tests is part of a possible solution to avoid that, in large but not only large, but also small and medium-sized work pools, the fires would not grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U507	Thank you. Please, Henn Põllaas, and I will also tell the other members of the Riigikogu that this is his first question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U508	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. All of our medical personnel are under extraordinary pressure. A long - term shortage of sisters forces sisters to work at the limits of human ability. The 24-hour security gap is between a short 12-hour break or there are 12 hours of living: 12 at work, 12 at home. There's no rest. No decisions have been taken to remedy the situation. The negotiations on the collective agreement are under way, and there has also been no increase in admission to nursing education. One that restricts the nurses' reception is the lack of the internship tutoring fee. Almost a year of nurse training is an internship. Under working conditions, there is no incentive for working sisters to take instructions, as this extra work is simply not paid. Does the government intend to allocate additional funds to the Health Insurance Fund to raise the remuneration of nurses and increase admission to nursing care? We will not otherwise emerge from this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U509	Thank you. Nurses and doctors, and the entire medical staff, are working on the limits of human ability, I fully agree with that, have been doing so for a very long time. As regards wage negotiations, as I said in response to one previous questioner, these negotiations are currently ongoing between the Hospital Association and the other party. As far as solutions with a longer view are concerned, we will certainly come to these discussions when the government starts discussing the country's budgetary strategy and the budget for next year. It will arrive in April, after the economic forecast has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U510	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U511	[[Remote connection]] Thanks! Good Keit, a very good answer to my previous question, but a very poor question. I'll try again, there's plenty to learn. We are talking about the first day of sickness, which is currently not financed by an additional budget, which would cost EUR 8 million. My question is very simple. Since it's not there, I'm asking if there's a reason and what you think it is or why you didn't put it there or stand for it. Is it too expensive, is it unfair, or is it not effective enough to reduce our illness?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U512	Thank you, good Squid! Very well asked question! I do not know how many times I will repeat that compensation for sick days in any case will help and have helped those people who would otherwise be in a very difficult situation if they stayed home because of the illness. The fact that last year's decision was made during the crisis to compensate for staying home sick from the second day has certainly alleviated this viral pressure on people, and the current proposed additional budget includes an extension of the same temporary measure. These discussions, whether it is necessary and how it is necessary and how it is justified, whether this is the most appropriate measure to be used today to control or reduce the spread of the virus, will certainly come during the debate in Parliament on an additional budget. The proposal currently put forward by the Government concerns the continuation of sickness benefit compensation from the second day onwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U513	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U514	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I agree with you that the overhead measure really helps everyone in the tourism sector. However, since many companies in the country are only open seasonally, additional labour will also be employed at the beginning of the season. The unemployment fund measure will not help them. Companies have made investments, hired people, so that we can breathe more freely this summer. But the infected numbers went to the ceiling. In Greece, for example, the government has already paid EUR 600 per month in winter to workers in the tourism sector for 30 years. There is no support for the low season in Estonia. Additional staff will be employed at the beginning of the season. This is why over 300 rural tourism companies, their workers and families are in a very difficult situation. In any case, thank you very much for your willingness to find a solution during the procedure. Do you agree, in principle, that rural entrepreneurs should not be discriminated against because they are located in the countryside, create jobs there and, unfortunately, tourism is seasonal in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U515	Thank you. None of the measures and support proposals included in the supplementary budget are discriminatory in any way depending on the location of the company. On the contrary, if the wage subsidy does not help, as you described, it is precisely for those who are not helped by the wage subsidy that this additional exceptional business support measure is intended. It is intended to support expenditure that is not wage costs, and it concerns and provides support to businesses, regardless of where they are located, including those who operate in rural areas and who, in any case, need support in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U516	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U517	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, As you know, this year the volume of individual research grants will fall threefold compared to last year, with only EUR 6 million being allocated instead of EUR 16 million. When I asked the Prime Minister about this, he said yes, funding is a problem. I put the same question to the Minister for Education and Research and he assured me that he too is aware of the problem and that it is indeed a problem. This morning I heard from you that you too know about this problem and that is [also you think] the problem. My humble opinion is that the government is not the kind of institution that knows the problems. It's enough to read the pages. The government is what solves the problems. I'm asking you to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U518	Thank you for that question. As we talked about this topic at your group meeting this morning, the logic of building this additional budget was to limit only to expenditure directly and directly linked to the crisis and restrictions. This does not mean that there will be no return to solving this problem both in the discussions on the country's budgetary strategy and in the debates on the state budget for next year. It is simply this additional budget that is directly linked to restrictions. The problem with grants is understandable, but it is not directly and directly related to restrictions, so it has not been specifically addressed in the preparation of the additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U519	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U520	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! In the morning, you were in our group, and I thank you very much for finding the time to do so, so many of my questions have been answered very well. Thank you. Perhaps you will remember that I touched upon the award to teachers for one month's salary for the great extra effort made under the corona conditions. With this idea, Minister of Education Liina Kersna came up with us in the Committee on Culture, and this was, in my opinion, a very good and very necessary proposal, which I would like to sign with two hands. In the morning, however, your answers revealed that this bonus has not been included in the supplementary budget for teachers, which is very unfortunate, because this regular and distance marathon, which lasted for a year and a half, was actually a huge burden on teachers. But would you still think about it and find that money for teachers, for example, from the government reserve fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U521	Thank you. The payment of salaries from the government reserve fund is in no way in line with the rules of that government reserve fund. The Government Reserve Fund is intended to cover different expenditure, not current expenditure. [It is intended for] extraordinary and one-off expenses, investments, unexpected situations. In terms of wage costs, indeed, as I explained, additional wage costs are not included in the supplementary budget. That is true and it concerns all areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U522	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U523	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of Finance! The extra budget expenditure is clearly accounted for by the great Tambovi coefficient. But instead, I ask you whether, when you drafted an extra budget, you were raking about the fact that the good old British version of this Chinese disease will be won, the situation will remain the same, or it will get worse. Because it's getting worse, it's being signaled by scientists in Central Europe who say there's going to be a fourth wave. And since Estonia is open without any control, it is only a matter of time before the strains of Brazil and South Africa reach Estonia. They're much more resistant to the vaccine, and we might get out of hand. What is the government's forecast and readiness for this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U524	Thank you. In the case of this additional budget, both for the expenditure related to vaccination and for several other expenditures, the desire and objective is that, if we are to face the summer solstice, we will have the opportunity to mark it in such a way that most of the restrictions are behind us, that we have been rid of the very harsh restrictions we are currently facing by then. But this is only possible if, first of all, the rate of vaccination is significantly faster and the possibilities of vaccination can be offered to people, and this certainly requires that the conditions that we can each of us meet, and these restrictions, are respected. For example, in the case of wage subsidies, it is true that we have taken into account the buffer that is necessary for about one month's additional payment of wage subsidies. Nobody dares and can currently predict whether, at the end of April, all restrictions can be alleviated in such a way that an extension of the salary allowance is no longer needed. There's a buffer that needs to be factored in just in case. And if it is not needed now at the end of April, then it is actually necessary to prepare for what can be expected in the autumn, on the basis of the principle of caution, just in case. No one dares to predict today and take any lighter or stronger poison, that, with the arrival of spring and summer, this virus will finally be spread under the line. So, with the extra budget, we've also foreseen some of these buffers. Similarly, we will increase the government reserve fund of EUR 55 million precisely so that there is money in the government reserve fund to cover such additional unexpected expenses. I would very much like to have someone who, with conviction and conviction, dares to predict exactly what the situation will be in four or five months' time, in six months' time. There are no such clear forecasters today, neither among scientists nor certainly in this Chamber. But what is important is that the efforts we are making now are really driven by the desire and the goal that the restrictions that are currently being imposed to protect health for the economy and everyday life can be removed as much as possible by the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U525	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U526	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In the additional budget, have you also taken into account the possibility that, if today's measures are still not working and the suppression of the corona numbers is not working well enough, then at some point you will have to implement a measure that worked well last spring and has also proved successful in our neighbouring countries? I am talking about border control, the organisation of corona testing for all arrivals by air, land and sea routes, allowing only healthy or antibody-infected people to the country. The situation in which national restrictions are severe, business is standing, but at the same time people can come from elsewhere without more control to Estonia, travel around the world, is, to put it mildly, absurd and even taunting for people who cannot even go to a cafe or shop in Estonia. By the coming summer, we would expect the opposite situation that we can take down national restrictions in Estonia, but there will be effective and thorough border control and testing, even until autumn or until livestock immunity is achieved. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] My question is whether or not the additional budget has the means to restore and maintain border control, if necessary, and to carry out testing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U527	Thank you. There is no provision for the closure of borders in the supplementary budget. But I, too, have seen it quite amazement, knowing that different strains are spreading, how still traveling to very exotic places that are not virus-proof at all. Minister for Economic Affairs Taavi Aas is analysing this issue quite quickly for the government this week, because it is probably a place where it is worth reviewing the current regulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U528	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U529	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! First of all, a credit to the entire government and to your team, who, at a difficult time, has put together a proper supplementary budget. There are a lot of tourism entrepreneurs, cultural organisers, creative people and retailers in my community. I have to admit that their message is that the additional budget volume was a surprise to them, they are very pleased with the package of subsidies. Their message, however, is that, since it is difficult for the company to go through all of this every day, they have a strong request that every ministry and EAS should make maximum use of it when developing the conditions for these measures and opening up measures, so that the grant application can begin before the additional budget has been knocked down and adopted. Their request is simply to be delivered more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U530	Thank you. This request is perfectly understandable, but it is not legally possible. In order to open the right to apply for support, Parliament shall grant this additional budget by adopting it. But what do we do this time? We are not waiting for the Riigikogu to conclude with the additional budget procedure, but we have already begun the preparation of the drafting of measures regulations, precisely by deleting the keys to the same support offer. We want to be ready and we need to be ready by the time the Riigikogu approves the additional budget, so that it is possible to do so immediately, in some places after the European Commission has granted the fast-track authorisation of state aid, to open these measures and start paying the subsidies, because, as has been said, this support is expected quickly and we will take this into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U531	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U532	[[Remote connection]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. You're... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U533	Dear Helmen Hunter, I apologize to you! Please, let's start over because your question was not heard. Maybe it's even better if you take the picture down for a second, so it's just a voice. And I'm asking you to give the questioner his one minute ago. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U534	I hope you can hear me now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U535	Yeah, I can hear better now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U536	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have twice responded to fellow officials, Mart Helme and Henn Põlluaas, that negotiations are ongoing in the health sector. What is your information based on? As of yesterday, in direct contact with both doctors and nurses' organisations, these negotiations did not take place. There's even a national conciliator hired. If they started today, it's great that they're dating. And secondly, we, the people in this Chamber, probably a great deal of recognition and respect for the health sector, are understandable, but we could ease this after-production, perhaps the same sick days again. The question I want to ask you is this: if municipalities can pay support to those who have lost their jobs, can municipalities also pay additional support from this state support, wage support for social workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U537	Thank you. First of all, about the first part, this information comes from colleagues in the Ministry of Social Affairs, about the concerns about the nurses' pay and about these consultations, about the negotiations. If you insist on what you were saying just a moment ago, I must, of course, apologise and check that information. As regards the rights of local governments or the possibilities of using the support provided by the government and the Riigikogu in the supplementary budget, in the social sector precisely to cover the additional costs associated with the pandemic, the corona crisis, I can say that this option exists for social workers in the social sector. Municipalities have the right to decide how they want to cover the costs incurred in a crisis situation with this money. The municipality is certainly also best placed to assess which expenditure has been most acute and how or to what extent to provide relief.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U538	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U539	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I got the impression when you answered my previous question that there is an understanding that the Tanel Swing has become better and smarter only because it has other partners. Therefore, they are better and wiser to allow them to do so. Of course, I don't want to believe that this life is as simple as you think it is. But I also have a question. I understand that no more plans are made to withdraw funds from the government reserve for the purchase or testing of vaccines. These funds, planned in the current supplementary budget for the purchase of vaccines and tests, how many vaccines do we get, how many tests do we get, how many companies will receive support from these measures? I understand that this is all that is needed, and with this extra budget, everything will be covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U540	Thank you. This last question apparently concerned this whole package of exceptional support measures for businesses. I can now say how many companies operate in different sectors, who have to decide whether they need [this support], whether they come to apply for it or not to apply for it. For example, retail trade alone has 1270. But we have not yet opened up the offer of support, and it is very difficult to tell how many people are coming to apply. 1270 are self-employed in this field. As far as testing and vaccination is concerned, the need for vaccination, the need for purchasing vaccines and logistics for vaccination, according to data from the Ministry of Social Affairs, has been covered after this amount has been allocated until the end of this year. In the case of vaccination, it is known that, according to pre-contractual agreements, each Estonian is guaranteed at least twice as much vaccination as they wish to use it. And, of course, the key issue in the case of vaccines is the arrival of supplies in Estonia. We all know that. An important part of the supplementary budget is that there must be nothing left to speed up the rate of vaccination and nothing is left behind the financial means. Similarly, the organisation of vaccinations will, where necessary, have the means to involve the private sector in order to carry out the vaccination more quickly. These costs are covered by the additional budget, if the Riigikogu supports it, until the end of the year. Similarly, until the end of the year, the need for testing according to the data of the Ministry of Social Affairs has been covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U541	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U542	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Now I'm not in the remote, now I can have a political debate. Before Rene Chef asked, but we didn't get a satisfactory answer to that. Why couldn't the additional budget wait until the spring economic forecast came out? It's practically a week from now. Why was it necessary for the government to present an additional budget just before this economic forecast? The real answer is that it will allow you to come before us with an additional budget with only expenditure. There are no revenue side measures within it or what are the actual economic forecasts or what are the actual potential costs associated with economic or labour market developments. I have this very hairy feeling that it has been deliberately done so that you should not show us that, in fact, the budget situation and the economic situation are still much better than they are trying to make an impression here, and you are essentially creating a nice buffer with which to manage the country's budget strategy and the autumn budget. This thing is not a kosher now, how you have come before us. Will you please dispel my suspicions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U543	Yeah, I am. The economic forecast will be ready by 5 April. It's more than ten days away from today. My firm knowledge and conviction is that every day that should continue to be insecurity for businesses, both in the case of wage subsidies and in the case of the same package of supplementary business support, is too much. Therefore, there was no reason to delay the submission of the supplementary budget to Parliament for long enough to wait for the economic forecast. Once again, the content of the additional budget would not have changed in any way the economic forecast. The content of the additional budget would have remained [same] in a few weeks' time, focusing directly on those [areas] where the constraints and the entire crisis have had the greatest impact, where the difficulty is greatest and waiting for assistance is the most critical. Similarly, in the case of wage subsidies, April starts immediately, it would not be conceivable that we will not submit an additional budget by the government to Parliament until April starts, and that there is no way of giving the unemployment fund confidence and certainty that the proposal for an additional budget for wage subsidies will have to be paid in April. This would have led to an entirely unnecessary situation where the uncertainty caused by the pandemic could have been further amplified by such uncertain signals about the additional budget. So that is why I continue to believe that it was very right to put together an additional budget quickly and to present it to Parliament as soon as possible. And that is why I think that the Riigikogu itself could be at a pace in its discussions according to the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U544	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U545	Thank you. In your answer to my previous question, Minister, you promised that you would address this issue when you started to deal with the budgetary strategy for next year. It is, on the one hand, good that you are going to deal with it, but, on the other hand, it is a completely unsatisfactory answer, because a black hole in the financing of Estonian science will occur this year, not next or the next. It happens this year, but the consequences may be the length of the Decades. You told me, and not only for me, but also for many others, that the purpose of this additional budget was not those other issues, but only the corona crisis. Firstly, you put this limit on the additional budget yourself. Secondly, this is not quite true, as this extra budget includes expenditure on the second pension pillar. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So, I ask you, find this opportunity to save Estonian science, perhaps out of the 56 million euros we found last year for science...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U546	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U547	Thank you. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U548	It's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U549	This proposal and your concern are perfectly understandable. I have indeed described the logic of putting together an additional budget and, as I have admitted in reply to previous questions, the only distinction is that which is not directly linked to the relaxation of restrictions and the ongoing crisis of compensation for the same second pillar payments, which simply need to be resolved. It's a legal obligation. But your concern and your message are understandable and well received.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U550	Now, second question, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U551	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. From the answer to my previous question, I learned that the government is not dealing with the situation of nurses. Now I'm going to ask you a little bit more. The additional allowance coefficient is only for medical staff working in the COVID departments. Unfortunately, all other medical staff are also working in the regular departments with considerably higher burdens, as a large part of them have been transferred to the COVID departments. The regular departments also work on the limits of human abilities. Is it planned to allocate additional funds from the additional budget to the sickness fund to compensate for the increased burden on the staff of the ordinary departments, i.e. to introduce an additional fund coefficient? Otherwise, we'll soon have hospitals draining medical personnel. No one can withstand this pressure without additional compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U552	Thank you. This additional budget for hospitals is divided into EUR 45,4 million for specialised medical care, EUR 2,7 million for general medical care, EUR 2,3 million for nursing care and EUR 2,6 million for emergency medical care, which also operates, particularly in recent months, under an insane burden. That's how the money goes to hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U553	Siim Pohlak, please! Siim, I can't hear you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U554	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Yeah, I can hear you now. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I will continue on my last question. You replied to me that there is no financial means in this supplementary budget to increase border control and to organise a cross-check on arrivals. I'll ask for more detail. Was it at all or was it not at all discussed when the budget was drawn up to find the money for these activities described above? Did any ministers come up with a proposal to allocate money to border control and border testing? If this was under discussion, what were the considerations that no money was found for this important measure, when we are talking about a summer without restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U555	Although there was no proposal for the closure of borders during the negotiations and debate on the supplementary budget, there is no such proposal. As far as testing at airports, for example, is concerned, this is already being done, but the closure of borders has not been discussed separately and is indeed not included in the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U556	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U557	Thank you. Honourable Minister! A few specific questions. The Ministry of Culture has different support measures in relation to the corona, all of which are undoubtedly necessary and justified. In total, this amount is approximately EUR 42 million, but the share of sport is just over 2 million. I look at this, it is very small and disproportionate to the previous measures implemented by the previous government, both for sport and for culture. Don't you think it's disproportionate and completely inadequate? Secondly, the [additional budget] has a line concerning youth camps, children's camps, private interest education and activities, private schools and kindergartens' grant of €12 million. Do local authorities also not receive money for this purpose from the line that it is only additional support for private and local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U558	Thank you. The additional support from local government is EUR 16 million in this additional budget and the additional investment is EUR 30 million. However, as far as sport is concerned, this additional budget is slightly more than you mentioned, EUR 4.2 million. This concerns support for private sports objects, with an amount of EUR 1 million being a support measure. Sport federations have EUR 600000, sports federations and master league clubs EUR 0.7 million. Coaches working under a debt contract are also expected to receive EUR 0.4 million. A separate support measure has been put in place for international sporting events that have had to be cancelled or postponed due to restrictions, amounting to one-and-a-half million. So, in total, over EUR 4 million is the package that is intended to support sport due to restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U559	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U560	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to my question, which I asked you earlier. You answered the question of what will happen to those people who have already lost their jobs and talked about extending the period of unemployment benefit, which Tanel Kiik promised by April last year. Unfortunately, a large number of people [from among the beneficiaries of this measure] have already dropped out; they are no longer benefiting from it. After all, unemployment benefit and all other subsidies are state-owned. My question is this: for what reason are those people who have lost their jobs and who no longer receive insurance benefits, but really only receive a few hundred euros of income support or unemployment benefit, why are these people not in the supplementary budget? What are they supposed to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U561	Thank you. As regards the additional budget, it is probably necessary to reiterate once again that the purpose of the additional budget is to keep as many jobs as possible. A revision of the income support rate is indeed not included in the supplementary budget. On the unemployment benefit side, I think I have already given the answer that, of course, this is not just about what you said in your question that someone simply wanted to extend this period. However, this change concerns the way in which the period of payment of the aid would essentially be adjusted to a specific economic cycle. If unemployment is significantly above the average or increased very rapidly over the last few or three months, the period of payment would also be extended. On the contrary, if the labour market situation is such that people are sought for employment with matchfire, this period could be shorter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U562	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U563	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! We are in a situation where we are calling on people to avoid all contact with other people, including public transport. During this crisis, the Finnish Government has essentially decided to exempt companies from the special preferential tax if they buy a bicycle for their employees to work and thereby encourage bicycle use. Besides being a healthy and good means of transport for a climate crisis, the bicycle is also good because a person is in the fresh air and alone, unless it is a tandem wheel. My question is this: could Estonia not, in my opinion, take this very successful decision from the Sanna Marin government and perhaps do so now, if we really need to reduce people-to-people contacts quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U564	Thank you. A very unexpected proposal during the ad hoc budget procedure relating to restrictions. We have not considered this solution, as you have described, and we have not considered it to be one of the best measures to limit the spread of the virus at present. On the other hand, reducing contacts is certainly necessary and part of how to get the virus back under control.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U565	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U566	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'll come back to my last question. You said that the government reserve fund could not pay a one-off bonus to [teachers]. However, it is one-off, very specific, targeted and justified. This is not really a wage subsidy. It is such a one-off payment and should therefore qualify for payment from the government reserve fund if the government so decides. Otherwise, it would seem that the government does not value the efforts of teachers. I will also ask again about the fund that was discussed this morning and which can be applied for support by event organisers who have missed the events due to restrictions. Perhaps you could discuss this measure more closely? And remember, I also touched on the possible abuses that might result. Did you have some time to think about them, too, and are you going to make sure that abuses are not required in order to apply for this measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U567	Thank you. The prevention of abuse in all these measures is certainly important and must be taken into account in setting precise conditions. As has been said, the exact criteria for applying for and paying the grant will be in place in the next few weeks and it will be very possible to answer your question in detail. The general logic of major events that have been cancelled due to restrictions or have had to be postponed by the organisers is precisely to support expenditure that has already had to be borne by the organisers before the restrictions were known and could be taken into account. These costs are very high for large festivals, for large events and it is simply not possible for organisers to withdraw from these costs later. This has been the point of this support and the hedge fund measure. I'll come to the government reserve fund for a moment. In order to use the government reserve fund, the government itself has established rules, and the government itself must certainly abide by these rules. True, there have been times when the principles of using the reserve fund have been quite creatively interpreted, rather stretching. We still have a strong desire to pursue, and we also consider it to be sole, the criteria that have been set for the use of the reserve fund and the payment of wages are not among them. It is not possible to pay the salary from the government reserve fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U568	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U569	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! We come back for a moment to the second pension pillar's state compensation paid to those who wish to leave the pillar. I hope you do not argue that the state currently saves nine months of money because it does not compensate those who join the second pension pillar for the state's support. But the question I have is that in the morning you in the political group, and in the Chamber today you also replied to your party partner that this EUR 117 million could not be paid out unless it had to be in the budget according to the law. As we know, pensioners have been able to leave the second pension pillar for the second month, and they have received their money and have also paid income tax on it. How has the state compensated them for this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U570	Thank you, good questioner! This question must be characterised by the fact that the change you have made is so confusing and complicated that even those directly involved do not know all the details at this stage. At the beginning of September [payments suspended] must be compensated for those who leave at the end of March and who receive their money in September. This concerns all those whose second pillar contributions were suspended by the State from the summer of last year until September of that year. That's the amount to be compensated for. I must also say that you treat the suspension of state payments as one of the necessary and good measures, but I think that this decision was wrong, that state payments to the second pillar were suspended. This has created further confusion and, as we will see this year, it has to do with the creation of very high one-off costs for the country. It wasn't the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U571	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U572	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would point out that last year, before we presented an additional budget in April, we twice made a macro forecast to clarify the [additional budget] in difficult situations. The story that we can't make a macro forecast before April isn't really true. He can if he wants to. It is therefore a political decision or a political choice not to make a macro forecast before an additional budget, and this policy choice has a clear consequence. You do not show us the real situation of the economy, you do not show us the actual tax receipts, you do not actually show us the positive side, you want to bring us the deficit-enhancing bill. But let it be. I have a question. A number of times before, there was an argument that there was no expenditure in this supplementary budget that would not be linked to the COVID, apart from this second pillar. But we can see in more detail that there are the costs of victim support, the extra costs of hiring online police officers, the cost of expanding the service of a closed childcare facility, the ICT developments at the Ministry of Social Affairs, these are very familiar additional applications from every budget we have made, the additional compensation for the vaccination service, which we have already paid once, the costs of acquiring vaccines, which we have also planned once. It's like double the money you asked for. These aren't big sums, some kind of million or half a million or a few hundred thousand are hidden between 600 million. However, it is not quite correct to claim that there are no costs other than the cost of corona in the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U573	Thank you. The questioner started with a reference to the additional budget for the previous year. This is, in itself, a good parallel and a good reference, since in the additional budget of the previous year, the line of income tax receipts with the additional budget was not amended in the same way as the additional budget. The measures included in the previous supplementary budget also concerned income tax receipts and changed this income tax receipts, but the budget you submitted last time did not change the line of income tax receipts. These costs, which you have read out, the victim assistance, the web constable, something else you mentioned in the social sphere, are all linked to expenditure that has increased in connection with the corona crisis. The service at the closed childcare facility was what you mentioned. The need for all these services has grown, some exponentially, in view of the situation that Estonia is experiencing due to the corona crisis. All these costs are expenditure related to the corona crisis, not additional or other expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U574	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U575	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Minister, You have long and very detailed answers to very important questions. I'm... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U576	Dear Alar Laneman, I apologize for a moment. Good questioner, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Unfortunately, the signal's not good, it's intermittent. I have a suggestion that we take another test, you have one minute to go again. Please start your question again. Please, Alar Laneman!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U577	I am asking about what is not in this supplementary budget. The issue is that the purpose of the supplementary budget is to combat the crisis, but we are only fighting the consequences of this crisis. The supplementary budget should also include measures that would increase our country's ability to fight this crisis. Above all, I am thinking of analytical and managerial capacity, communication, increasing the volume of the medical system and all other measures up to the appointment and support of one agency, because the third wave is coming. I understand it was perhaps a conscious choice that it was not here. Do you see the possibility that the government will come back to this issue to enhance our country's capacity? Otherwise, it's like we're in a house with a leak in the roof, but we're fixing rotten furniture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U578	Thank you. This is certainly an important area and concerns a number of areas of government. Yes, this is not included in the supplementary budget, because, as you yourself pointed out, it is not directly linked to restrictions. But in any case, it has to be dealt with, here, I think, no one has any doubt.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U579	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U580	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have not been following all the questions, perhaps it has already been asked or the subject has been touched upon, but I have not heard at least. The private sector provides help to the public sector in dealing with the crisis. Businesses have also made proposals to increase the exemption from the special preferential tax when the employer spends on health in the current crisis. If employers want to do this further, has the government discussed whether it would be possible for employers to meet their wishes and also to mobilise more private capital to address this crisis? The employers are ready for this. Are you ready to change the law and go that way too, at least right now in this supplementary budget package, I do not see this proposal and the will to come up with the proposal that businesses have made and to exempt them from the special preferential tax to a greater extent than is currently the case for health expenditures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U581	Thank you. I have also talked to businesses about tax incentives myself, and I have explained very honestly and openly to them the situation which currently exists in the state budget as a whole and therefore no additional tax incentives currently exist. I have no desire to give anyone such a false understanding that the creation of additional tax incentives is an issue that will be considered or discussed in the near future. We have an additional budget and budget situation such that we have to consider absolutely every additional expenditure and advantage very carefully, because if the budget for this year was already in deficit of over 6%, then that means that there is no additional room to increase the deficit if it is not directly linked to the expenditure of the crisis. Therefore, yes, as has been said, the additional budget does not contain any tax incentives, and I think it is reasonable that this is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U582	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U583	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In December 2008, the Reform Party's website announced, together with the year, that the Reform Party would be pleased to see a reduction in public spending on the arrival of more difficult times. So, in the crisis that began in 2008, you conducted and were proud of a policy of neoliberalism. In this crisis, however, you are pursuing the opposite principles, which are also reflected in the supplementary budget under discussion. I ask, for the sake of history, when and for what reason such a fundamental change took place in the principles of the Reform Party and whether this also means abandoning neoliberal ideology at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U584	Thank you, good questioner! The feature of this additional budget is, among other things, that we have taken on a very high level of responsibility for spending. [We have based] on the fact that the expenditure included in the supplementary budget is, first, directly linked to the crisis, secondly, that it is limited in time to the duration of the crisis, the duration of the restrictions, and, thirdly, that it is as precisely as possible targeted. However, spending savings and targets must certainly be addressed in every area of government, in every administration, and this means, among other things, that the use of money that was originally planned in the budget, but which cannot be done because of constraints or the current crisis situation, be it travel costs, be it training costs, but be it, for example, lower maintenance costs for people looking at home, all of which must be used, in particular, to alleviate the crisis situation, crisis-related measures. This means that government areas, ministries have already used this money to cover the costs associated with the crisis. It's not always come to ask for extra money. As an example, the Ministry of the Interior, which covers part of the supervisory expenditure precisely through internal restructuring. The Ministry of Education and Research has also made very rapid changes within it to help, among other things, to alleviate the problems of teachers. There are more examples. So spending savings must certainly be addressed by the public sector now, in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U585	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U586	Thank you. I'm really glad I managed to surprise you. I hope it was a positive surprise. In fact, the decision of the Sanna Marin government is also quite interesting, technically, in a tax way, I suggest you look at it. I'm coming back to the same thing. In a sense, it is also the unequal treatment of people. After all, today the employer can compensate for the use of a private car, but if the employer bought a bicycle for the employee, he would have to pay a special discount tax. I imagine it might be quite difficult to explain to the tax administration that this was a business-related cost. I'm not sure they'd accept that. It seems to me that we are always talking about restrictions and rules and supervision and punishment in the context of these crisis measures. You didn't say you couldn't do a lot of benefits just before. In my opinion, on the contrary, one could also think about how to encourage behaviour that would help reduce the spread of the virus. I think that in the long term, this will save health money and it will not be cheap to cope with the consequences of this climate crisis either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U587	Thank you. I respect people who prefer to do as much as possible with their daily walks on a bicycle, and I myself have to say that I am among those who walk as much as possible. This is certainly possible in Tallinn, at least in the city centre. But our understanding of what exactly is a direct crisis measure in terms of this additional budget is probably slightly different. Indeed, this support for the purchase of your bicycle, as described by you, has not been taken into account among the measures directly linked to reducing the spread of the virus. However, for those who are able, I certainly recommend that you stay in the fresh air as much as you can under health and other circumstances. This will certainly help to boost both the body and the spirit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U588	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U589	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Looking at the unemployment fund line, I noticed that there is also support for those who have not yet contributed tax. This isn't about a sneaking citizen's salary, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U590	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U591	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U592	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! This is where the victim's help went through the discussion. Unfortunately, it has to be said that a myth has been created around victim support, so as not to say a lie created and cultivated by the feminists of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Women's shelters have not seen an increase in domestic violence in the past or in the current crisis. Today Minister Riisalo said in an interview somewhere that women's shelters have to start calling their ex-customers. But that's not their job. So the Ministry of Social Affairs is creating the problem itself, and then it's going to solve it violently and forcefully. It is not acceptable to pump money out with such lies and waltzes, and the Conservatives intend to vote against it in any case and scrape out unnecessary expenditure from the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U593	Thank you. I don't think there was a question. The Ministry of Social Affairs and those who work in victim support are doing a very difficult and grateful job, doing so very well, and thank them very much for that. The burden of this work has increased considerably during the crisis. To mention that additional support of EUR 200000 for victim support is not a necessary cost, that it is not linked to the current stress situation in society, I do not agree with this under any circumstances. This specific measure, this specific support, is intended precisely to increase the number of victim support workers and non-violence advisors. But it is also designed to provide web-constablike advice in both Estonian and Russian social media. This is a service that, unfortunately, we need more, not less. This is, in terms of content, really important money allocation, important support. So I would certainly ask Urmas Reitelmann and his colleagues to support this draft. Once again, I stress that the need for this kind of work after the crisis has increased, not diminished.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U594	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U595	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I understand from the answer given to Mr Helme that, according to you, the additional budget does not include external costs. The response to Urmas Reitelmann also turned out in the same way that, in principle, just as the boundary between general crisis assistance, general discomfort and issues related to the corona crisis gets blurry. I wonder if you will stick to your assurance that there is no expenditure outside the Coronary Crisis in the supplementary budget at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U596	Thank you. I have also made it clear immediately that there is a very high cost which has nothing to do with the corona crisis, but which needs to be resolved. This concerns the payment of compensation to those leaving the second pillar following a change in the second pillar system, for which money must be provided. This is not about the crisis. The rest of the expenditure, the rest of the support measures, the allocation of funds in this supplementary budget are linked to the crisis, the effects of the crisis, the mitigation of these effects and the provision of support, precisely in those sectors where this support is most needed because of the crisis, so that, as soon as possible after the crisis, doors can be opened or returned to a more normal and similar situation. So the rest of the costs are linked to the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U597	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U598	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You were very optimistic last year about the effects of the European relaunch: they are effective; they are useful; they are good. Do you continue to believe that this is a positive opportunity for Estonia today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U599	Thank you. I keep thinking that. I think that the use of the recovery facility, the opening of which should probably be possible in the second half of this year, as well as the European Union's crisis aid, which has come into circulation under the name of the REACT-EU Fund, both of which are very much helping to bring money into the economy in the middle of a crisis and a crisis and helping to emerge faster from the crisis. In addition, the period has ended from European Union money to date without deciding on the use of more than EUR 130 million, which awaits decisions. To be honest, it is a pity that this is still the case that no decisions on how to use money have been made. But on the other hand, of course, it can be said that it is precisely in this crisis situation that their decision-making is also helping to bring additional money into the economy. So the use of the recovery facility, the use of European Union money as a support for coming out of the crisis, is a huge opportunity that must certainly be used. Part of this crisis assistance, REACT-EU, is once again directly linked to health expenditure, both testing and vaccination. However, over EUR 70 million from REACT-EU are intended directly to support entrepreneurship, including EUR 18 million in support of the tourism sector that was hit very sharply. So these are important money and it is an important support to be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U600	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U601	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. I am, unfortunately, returning to the issue of sick days, as we have been pointing this out with the Social Democrats since autumn. We have a situation where, according to recent Health Board data, 63% of infection sites are workplace sites, so that's where we can make the biggest change in the current rate of infection. A recent survey shows that one in four people has been exposed during the last year to the fact that one of their colleagues comes to work sick, and 84% believe that the reimbursement of sick days from day one would help reduce the number of sick people coming to work. In this context, I understand from what you are saying that you do not believe that it has a significant enough effect to make it worth spending EUR 8 million. Or does it seem to you, in principle, unfair or immoral that the country would compensate for sick days from day one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U602	Thank you. Good Indrek Saar, don't put words in my mouth and don't try to do that. I have not argued one, the other or the third, and I do not intend to do so either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U603	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U604	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I wanted to tell everyone who's doing this remote work that there's, of course, a little bit of pleasure there, but to ask a question, it's always worth coming to this hall. I have a question about a budget line. I know that the organisers of the big concert wanted some EUR 8 million, that was the support that would cover their losses. If we think that we are about to emerge from the crisis at some point, is it perhaps conceivable that, as a permanent measure, we would reduce the VAT on major cultural events to 9%, so that they would be competitive in our region? The bigger events are going to Latvia and elsewhere now, because there's 9%, but we have 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U605	Thank you. Well, very good and interesting big festivals and events are also organised in Estonia more precisely, would be organised if there were no current restrictions and crisis situation. I think that the organisers of our major events are doing world-class work in organising a number of major and internationally well-known festivals and events. This hedge fund, which we are talking about, is intended as a measure in times of crisis. It is a contribution to the [helping to cover the costs incurred]. As restrictions have been imposed, events are planned, but cannot be organised, while costs have been incurred, [this measure] is helping to support these costs now, in times of crisis, in the situation of constraints. It is meant to be a measure in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U606	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U607	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, I do not wish to put words in your mouth, but I would like you to answer why, in the current situation, it seems to you that EUR 8,5 million in the additional national budget should be allocated in order to compensate for sick days from day one and 100%, [not necessary]. Why don't you think that's necessary? Say it in your own words without me putting words in your mouth. Why don't you think that's necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U608	Thank you. This supplementary budget relief package has been put together as a whole, taking into account these recommendations, those measures that help most directly to alleviate the pain associated with the crisis in certain sectors or are most effective in controlling the spread of the virus. Of these measures, the total relief package, a total of EUR 150 million has been earmarked for health care. This is important for the continuation of vaccination, which I believe is one of the most important tasks this year. The [enlargement] of the scope of vaccination, the [removement] of vaccination will allow us to gradually emerge from the restrictions, allow us to re-open the country and the economy, and allow people to return to work. In this key, the extra money allocated to vaccination is, in my opinion, one of the most important decisions to be taken on this additional budget. However, there are other equally important allocations in the health package, which concern both hospital costs, as has already been said, ambulance costs. I think it is worth looking at this [additional budget] as a whole. We have really been looking for this balance in the government and the solutions that will help to improve the virus situation most effectively, and the package that we have put together is an additional budget before you. The debate is now in Parliament's hands, as is the case with the additional budget and other drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U609	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U610	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Secretary of Finance, good Keit! What is your forecast: will we need to make another additional budget this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U611	Thank you. Yeah, question. In drawing up this additional budget, we have tried to take into account the addition of the necessary buffers so that such a need does not arise. This concerns both the continuation of the wage subsidy and the growth of the government reserve fund in such a way that the most critical, rapid one-off expenditure can be covered from the government reserve fund. That has been what we have remembered when we made this extra budget. But the truth is, as we have seen in the last few months, that the development of events can be very rapid, very sudden and not at all desirable. I hope that we do not need to have an additional budget. I hope that both the additional budget and the very strict restrictions currently imposed, of which we are all tired, will help to alleviate this situation in such a way that we can open up the country for normal living in the summer and open up the economy as well. I hope that the economy will kick-start, speed up and recovery will be rapid. It all supports economic growth, and so that we do not have another critical moment on the budget side, where we should come to Parliament with a new proposal. That is what we are certainly working for and hope to prove true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U612	Minister, thank you very much. No further questions for you. Thank you very much for your answers, thank you. We will proceed with the first reading of the draft 357 and I will now give the floor to Mr Savisaar, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U613	[[Remote connection]] Okay. I think there's a picture and a voice now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U614	Your picture and your voice are there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U615	Pleasure. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Finance Committee prepared the draft law on the additional budget of 2021, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at its meeting on 18 and 23 March. On 18 March, we decided that it would be reasonable for this draft to be discussed in the large Chamber today and that it should be reported by the chairman of the committee. On 23 March, the representative of the initiators, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance, presented the content of the draft. Tanel Kiik, Minister for Health and Labour, Signe Riisalo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, and Kristian Jaani, Minister for the Interior, also gave an overview of the changes in his field. The Commission unanimously decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed today and that the deadline for amendments be four working days, 30 March at 5.15 p.m. The content of the draft text was already presented by the Minister and summarised briefly as follows: The budget volume is 641 million euros, which is intended to help Estonian residents, businesses, society and the health care system. The package of measures includes resources for the payment of wage subsidies in sectors where the volume of work is reduced due to restrictions and the continuation of sickness benefits from the second day of illness, as well as additional measures for mental health care, special care and rehabilitation, additional funds for medicines, vaccination and crisis management, and support measures for the tourism sector, cultural organisers and creators. I now come to the debate in the Commission. Most of the questions asked also sounded in this Chamber and received a similar answer. I would just like to clarify the response of Minister for Health and Labour, Mr Kiig, on budgetary instruments for combating the health crisis this year. In short, Tanel Kiik replied that the previous government allocated EUR 1.5 million already last year, which concerned the additional contribution of pre-purchase contracts to the first instrument of exceptional support. On this basis, the European Union invested in the development of vaccines and subsequently received [vaccine] at a more favourable price. Last year no further financial payments were made. A number of payments have been made this year for tests, vaccines, vaccination equipment and medicines as well as for [vaccination] arrangements. This year's budget accounted for EUR 64 million of REACT-EU funding. Of this, COVID-19-related activities, including testing, accounted for 22.26 million, maintaining COVID-19 preparedness and scenarios in hospitals B and C of 12,6 million, COVID-19 vaccines and carrying out vaccinations 25.15 million, and adapting the general care service to prevent the spread of infectious diseases to EUR 4 million. In addition, the Health Insurance Fund had planned EUR 145 million in its budget to address the health crisis this year and EUR 540 million in four years. Overall, over EUR 200 million had already been planned for this year, and the additional budget now covers the additional costs that the escalation of the crisis has incurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U616	Thank you, good waitress. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Let's move on to the negotiations. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I open negotiations and the first to speak is Kersti Sarapuu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U617	Thank you. Am I audible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U618	You're wonderfully audible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U619	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Centre Party Group is pleased that, after some delay, the government decided to draw up an additional budget. The need for additional funding already exists for companies because the crisis in COVID-19 has closed most of the Estonian economy. The turnover of many companies has been reduced to a minimum, but employees need to pay wages, pay utilities and make loan and leasing payments. The additional budget is EUR 641 million and, of course, the largest part of it is the area of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has more than EUR 258 million. It includes, for example, wage subsidies and subsidies for hospitals and other health care institutions, as well as the cost of vaccination and testing. Almost EUR 140 million is intended to cover remuneration. Compensation is paid to employees for March-April and can be applied for by employers whose turnover has dropped by half, regardless of their occupation. We extended the range of beneficiaries, since the restrictions in force from March are much more extensive than before and affect thousands of companies. Compensation can be claimed for staff whose starting date has been 1 January at the latest and who have not been entitled to an agreed amount of work or whose remuneration has been reduced. Compensation shall be paid per employee 60% of his average salary and up to EUR 1000 on a gross basis. The employer's own contribution to the payment of the fee shall be at least EUR 200 gross. The amount of benefit for self-employed persons is a one-off minimum wage set by the government, i.e. EUR 584. It is the duty of the state to support people in difficult times. First, that we be healthy and remain healthy and do not work sick to care for our family. Secondly, so that contacts are as small as possible. Thirdly, our country's escape from the crisis and its future success will depend on how little human health, everyday life and work suffer. Catering and accommodation facilities and spas have been hit hard in the crisis and are supported by EUR 25 million. Over a year of unprecedented crisis has now weakened everyone and everything. The planned treatment has been temporarily reduced to a minimum, but the resources allocated from the additional budget will give the medical authorities confidence that, as the crisis in COVID-19 eases, it will be possible to gradually increase the proportion of scheduled treatment to an agreed annual amount. The Centre Party has always stood up for local governments and it is sympathetic that 16 million euros are foreseen to compensate for the loss of own revenues and additional costs and 30 million euros to support investments. The incomes of local governments have decreased during the corona period and... with the aid of increased resources, municipalities can... medical and hygiene supplies... as well as increase the necessary social protection... [[The connection's breaking up.]] It is also possible to hire additional staff to provide social services and to distribute food aid. Cities and municipalities can direct investment support at their own discretion. For example, it is possible to repair the ventilation systems of institutions and improve the energy efficiency of buildings. There is also a comprehensive aid package for culture and sport, which covers unavoidable expenditure of EUR 42 million and ensures culture and its continuity even in difficult times. For example, a cultural organisation support measure helps companies and organisations to cover both the labour costs payable under debt-law contracts and other unavoidable costs. Separate measures are intended for cinemas, film production and film distributors and freelance artists. Attention has also been paid to sport. The additional money will be allocated to the holders of sports objects included in the sports register, sports federations, master league clubs as well as trainers working under debt-law contracts. A separate hedge fund supports major economic events that have no significant economic impact due to restrictions. Finally, I propose that the additional budget be treated constructively so that we can adopt it by 15 April at the latest. Our people are in a hurry to get help.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U620	Thank you. I would like to ask Riina Sikkuti, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U621	Thank you, good Chairman. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U622	Yeah, eight in total. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U623	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it is a great pleasure to note that in the supplementary budget, support measures are linked to the crisis, limited in time, temporary, hopefully quickly impacting and not increasing fixed costs. Unlike the previous government, there are no points of compliance with the coalition agreement, there is only one correction for the mistakes of the second pillar. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, in his speech that we received in writing on 18 March, said that the purpose of the additional budget is to provide support and solutions to critical areas in order to mitigate the impact of the health crisis on the people and economy of Estonia and to ensure sustainability in order to get out of the crisis. It's all right, you can't argue with that. But before we sustainably exit, the crisis must first be brought under control. We need to get the number of infected to fall, without it, it will not be possible to emerge from the crisis in a sustainable manner. In order to prevent the spread of infection, we have already severely reduced contacts in schools, hobby groups, entertainment facilities, public events and sports halls. Contacts between kindergartens, shopping centres, workplaces and traditional relatives and friends have also been reduced. We wear masks indoors, wash our hands more often than ever before, keep distance and if possible vaccinate. But now we are in a situation where, despite the restrictions imposed two weeks ago, the spread of the infection still remains very high. Last week the number of infected people increased by 7%. He didn't! He didn't! Today's numbers: 1553 positive, that's 21.4% of the tests, 100 people were taken to the hospital and 14 died. The current restrictions have not led to a rate of infection below one. It is logical that further steps must be taken, but there are so many limitations and behavioural recommendations, and they have been so long that people are tired, they feel reluctant about further restrictions. But what do we do? We know that more than half of the monsters are at work, and from work, this infection is being transferred to their homes. People's daily contacts take place in many ways at work, but teleworking is not possible in more than half of the jobs. In such a situation, in order to limit the spread of infection, it is essential that people with a positive test result and their close contacts follow the isolation rules. It can't be that a person with few symptoms is afraid of going to test because maybe a positive result will come and he has to stay home and lose his income. After a positive test, it often appears that in large groups, people have only a few or three close contacts. Or what happens is that an employee-friendly employer asks who wants to be in close contact. He is employee-friendly because the employer knows that not everyone can afford to stay at home. Not everyone can afford to be on a quarantine sheet at home for two weeks, because staying home from work now means loss of income for people. This also means a double burden for employers: to cover the salary of a replacement for a survivor and to pay sickness benefit to a resident at the same time. And the rest of the restrictions will have to be respected anyway. In a crisis situation, in order to prevent the spread of infection, workers, often those earning lower than the average, must not be required to put their livelihood at risk. We all want the spread of infection to slow down, and we all have to bet on who's in isolation, who's paying the sick money, but who's coping with it can't be hit. The companies that produce food for us, keep the room warm, bring goods to the door, though they can operate in times of crisis, but support to limit the spread of infection cannot. Companies that have already lost or have lost significant turnover will receive support. It is strange that it must be so powerless to receive crisis support, but those who have to make an effort and continue to work in this situation will not receive support from an additional budget. Compensation for people with a positive test result and for their close contact with sickness days is not significant compared to the relatively low cost of other crisis measures and in terms of additional budget. The government confirms that people are responsible, and I am absolutely certain that everyone is responsible for their own livelihood. Everyone is responsible for earning their own income. However, if a minimum wage earner loses nearly EUR 100 as a result of two weeks of staying at home, the penalty for this stay could be removed as a crisis measure. Right now, we're telling those who, following the rules, stay in the house as corona-positive, thank you, you're a good conscientious citizen, fine of 95 euros. I repeat the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal that the corona-positive and their close contacts be compensated as a crisis measure from the first day of sickness with 100% of their income. At the expense of the government reserve. The main arguments against this have also been repeated. [Firstly,] the person must retain ownership, otherwise the scheme will be used. I understand that everyone misses pre-corona time and wants to argue under so-called normal time conditions, but right now it cannot be a pretext for a missed hangover day. The compensation criterion shall be a positive test result or close contact. The second objection is that we still have to discuss and think and agree with the social partners. The social partners' contribution to labour legislation and changes to social security schemes is essential, but we are not talking about long-term restructuring of the scheme and increasing the burden on employers, but on the contrary, we are talking about a crisis measure and reducing the burden of compensation for sick days for employers. Third argument: Second-day compensation already has an impact. Very good, indeed, more generous compensation for sick days reduces the amount of work that you get when you are sick. This measure must be continued. But we need to reduce the spread of the infection. We need more sick people to stay home. Therefore, we cannot just proceed with the existing measure; we need a better-functioning measure. We need to do more than we have done so far. Indeed, the results of a recent survey show that one in four people had a colleague who had been working sick, and as much as 84% of people thought that the benefit of the first day of illness would have motivated this sick colleague to stay at home. At the beginning of the second wave, in the autumn, we had many job stations, but it took a very long time to reach a decision on compensation for sick days. The spread of infection is now uncontrolled and the restrictions imposed have not helped to bring the infection rate down to one. It is therefore incomprehensible why the constructive proposal aimed at limiting the spread of the opposition cannot be supported. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U624	Good waitress, your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U625	Yeah. I assure you that we will present this as an amendment, and I look forward to the support of all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U626	Thank you. I now give the floor to the representative of the Isamaa Group in the negotiations. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U627	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at the extra budget, I have a number of questions. We have come to discuss the additional budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs once, yesterday, and this morning, the Minister of Finance also went to give an overview to the Isamaa Group. However, during these meetings, the Minister has not been able to answer convincingly the question of why an additional budget is trying to conceal the revenue received by the State which could be used to mitigate the effects of the crisis. How does this concealment of predictable revenues occur? For example, EUR 117 million is foreseen to compensate for the second pillar payments, but no account has been taken of the income tax received by the budget in connection with the pension reform. The Minister of Finance has acknowledged that the revenue tax received exceeds the expenditure planned in the additional budget, but has refused to disclose a specific amount, despite the fact that the calculation of this EUR 117 million requires the calculation of the revenue to be received. We know that last year's additional budget stopped state contributions to the second pension pillar and the state used this money to cover other costs. It will also do so this year until 1 September. This shouldn't be a surprise to anyone. Today, a large number of pensioners have left the second pension pillar and 10% of income tax has also been paid out. The same will happen in September when more than 100,000 people from the second pension pillar leave the second pension pillar. Income tax is also paid on this amount. Income tax is also paid on the State's compensation for the second pillar calculated in the supplementary budget. Why is it not possible to tell clearly how much it is? Why is it hidden? Everyone acknowledges that this amount significantly exceeds the amount shown on the expenditure side, which is clearly overdimensioned at present. The additional budget must be ambitious and boost the economy. Planned support measures for businesses and health are important. Wage support is indispensable at the moment because of restrictions, but it is essential to strive for additional resources for recovery measures and investments that will help us to emerge from the crisis more quickly. The crisis must see opportunities for new investments. Where, then, do we see economic recovery measures in the supplementary budget? EUR 30 million for investment support for local authorities, that is all. We know that the construction and road construction sectors are currently at a low level and prices are favourable to subscribers. Why, then, does the government not find an additional budget for 2 + 2 roads, dust-free roads, internet access, last mile building, etc.? Investments would work for many companies, but tax money would come back. The COVID-19 pandemic had caused a significant drop in passengers and trade on the waterways and in Estonian ports at the beginning of 2020. The situation affected all shipowners, passenger ships, merchant ships and port managers, as the volumes served and turnover decreased significantly. As economic measures related to the spread of the Corona virus, the Act amending the laws relating to the Estonian State's additional budget for 2020 was adopted on 15 April 2020, which exempted all ships entering Estonian ports and ports from the payment of the fee for waterways from 1 April of the previous year until 31 March of that year. The financial cost of the measure was estimated at EUR 18 million, by which the forecast of the state budget's revenue had to be revised from 1 April 2020 to 31 March that year. Today, it can be said that the right decision was made. This decision has had a positive impact on Estonia's competitiveness. Compared to 2019 and 2020, it can be said that Estonia gained additional volumes of goods, so additional revenue for the country, while the volume of goods in our Baltic Sea region decreased. For example, the Port of Tallinn increased its volume by 1.4 million tonnes. PricewaterhouseCoopers has for years analysed the economic impact of the Estonian freight corridor. On the basis of these studies, the impact of this increase in the volume of goods on the state budget is estimated to be positive, around EUR 16 million, and will cover most of the cost of the measure. It is important to consider that if such a decision had not been taken, Estonia would have lost a significant part of the volume of goods and also the revenue of the state compared to what was planned. According to the company's forecasts, without this measure, a large part of the planned fees would have been lost and the volume of goods would have been significantly reduced. As a result, the revenue from the state budget would have been more than EUR 35 million lower. The Fatherland will certainly be looking for additional budget resources to extend this measure until... September, further 50% if taxes are collected in the state budget. [[The connection's breaking up.]] Businesses are making great efforts today to prevent the circulation of COVID-19 in the working environment. It is clear that, despite the aid measures...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U628	Good waitress, do you copy? Good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U629	...to prevent the virus in the workplace without vaccination. [[The connection's breaking up.]] The situation in manufacturing plants is particularly difficult...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U630	I'm gonna ask him for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U631	Yeah, three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U632	Yeah, we heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U633	... and at workplaces where teleworking is not possible. As a result, faster and more effective vaccination will help to ensure good health for workers, the continuation of business work and the functioning of the economy. Therefore, ambition should be increased and additional means should be provided for vaccination and rapid tests. It'll keep people healthy, and we'll see the infection... [[The connection's breaking up.]] Finally. No additional budget...... public expenditure... [[The connection's breaking up.]] The state must make sure that, in this economic situation, there is no over-expenditure without taking account of revenue. I believe that most national authorities would find ways of saving both economic costs and overheads. Let's do it. And to add that there are over EUR 300 million of unused funds in KredEx, the additional budget could also have covered expenditure from the budget. To sum it up. The supplementary budget must be dealt with at a rapid pace, but it must not be done in secrecy and concealing public revenue. We in the Riigikogu must have greater ambition than the government. We must take clear steps to revitalise the economy and make efforts to ensure that Estonia emerges successfully from the crisis. The Isamaa Party supports the urgent procedure of the additional budget in the Riigikogu and will make a number of necessary amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U634	Thank you. I now give the floor to the representative of the Reform Party Group in the negotiations. Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U635	[[Remote connection]] Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U636	Yeah, please, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U637	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When preparing the initial budget last autumn, it was expected that the epidemiological situation would improve and that economic growth would recover in the spring, together with an increase in demand. However, the economic forecast underlying the initial state budget did not take into account the rapid increase in infection and new severe restrictions have to be introduced since March. However, the risks associated with the increase in infection were already seen in the Riigikogu in autumn during the budgetary procedure. As a result of the expansion of the Korona restrictions, many countries have implemented substantial support measures to stabilise and boost the economy and have provided liquidity support to companies. In this context, I remember asking during the budgetary procedure what Estonia's measures are. There was no other answer than to expect mainly money from the European Union budget and investments and scraps of financial instruments coming from last year. However, money from European Union funds is known to come with a time shift, and it is also largely not intended to cover those essential costs which are currently to be resolved by an additional budget. And as we heard from the Minister, there were only a fewty million euros in government reserve at the beginning of the year. Recently, the OECD has dramatically raised the global growth forecast. At the same time, infection rates are rising and new corona restrictions are being imposed in several Member States of the European Union. This has reduced optimism about the economic recovery in Europe. Previously, it was assumed that from March onwards the restrictions would gradually be relaxed, but now it has become increasingly clear that this is not the case. Estonia now also had to draw up an additional budget for crisis measures. The additional budget will amount to EUR 641 million. The measures have been designed taking into account the fact that they are linked to the crisis, limited in time, temporary in nature, have a rapid impact and do not constantly increase the cost of the state budget. There is also a small comment on fiscal policy and finances in general. In the years preceding the COVID-19 crisis, quite a large number of EU Member States took advantage of favourable time to strengthen budget buffers. Unfortunately, Estonia did not create the necessary budgetary buffers in the favourable times preceding the crisis. The structural minus, or overpowering, became worse. Therefore, it was indeed the case that last year's loan money was also spent to pay back loans to cover current budget expenditure in good times prior to the crisis. So last year's new loan money was spent most of it not to cover the additional budget measures, but to cover the deficit of the current budget, and, as I said, to repay previous debts. An additional budget of EUR 2.3 billion was announced last year, but in fact only half of it was spent last year, so that precise targeting cannot be mentioned. Several financial instruments, the investment was not fully operational. Moreover, some financial instruments were implemented with time lags and had to be changed later under pressure from market participants. In any case, the measures of the current supplementary budget are better targeted than the additional budget drawn up by the previous Minister of Finance. The introduction into the supplementary budget of expenditure not directly related to mitigating the crisis and compensating for restrictions has been avoided. Here the questioners complained about the cost of online constables and EUR 200000 of victim support costs, but let us remind you that last year's additional budget had EUR 50 million in the cost of land capital, which had nothing to do with mitigating the crisis. A small comment on the issue of income tax on those leaving the second pension pillar. The question was why this additional income from income tax has not been taken into account. The point is that income tax is affected not only by income tax on those leaving the pension pillar, but also by many other factors. As a whole, a new forecast for income tax will be published together with the economic forecast to be published in April and there will be no talk of concealment of income here. The Riigikogu will certainly make an effort to ensure that the procedure for the additional budget is thorough, comprehensive, but at the same time fast enough. From a government point of view, we also expect the legislation, general regulation and support programme regulations to be developed in a timely manner for the implementation of the additional budget. To sum up, the main content of the additional budget support measures is the provision of crisis assistance to people and the economy in order to ensure sustainability in terms of exiting the crisis. Crisis aid must be short-term, rapidly impactive and targeted precisely and must not permanently increase public expenditure. The channelling of credit to costs that are not linked or non-existent to the crisis must be avoided. This has also been taken into account in the preparation of this year's additional budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U638	Next, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme. Please, you can have three more minutes, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U639	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Naturally, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party supports the creation of an additional budget. Ultimately, this additional budget does exactly what the previous government did a year ago. It supports health in a major health crisis, supports the labour market and supports sectors that are hit hard. It's all something that we've come up with a year ago and that worked and now needs to be used again. That's not a problem. The problem is elsewhere. I am deeply disturbed by the rhetoric accompanying this budget, which is full of deceit and dishonesty. First lie. While in opposition a few months ago, the Reform Party insisted that a budget with a lower deficit should be made and that debt should be taken more modestly. Now they come here, having been in government for two months, increasing the deficit. Another lie is that money was never meant for certain things. This is a double lie, because several cost lines, which we have set here today and which we see in the draft, have actually been paid or paid in the past, such as asking for the same vaccine money again, are completely incomprehensible. More importantly, the government itself caused a corona disaster, and now it goes around complaining that the previous government did not foresee enough funds to test and heal this disaster. This is a deeply unfair, unfair and deceitful approach. He goes around talking about how there wasn't enough money for sick leave or the labour market. Third lie. This concerns what I also raised in the round of questions, that no macroeconomic forecast has been made with the additional budget. It hides itself behind the argument that the macro forecast will come as foreseen by the law in the early days of April at the end of March, and since we did not want to hold on to the money, it was necessary to make the budget quickly and quickly to avoid losing them for a few weeks. But a year ago, I was the Minister of Finance myself, and we made these forecasts, regardless of the calendar, even specifying them, so no one forbids them, no one forbids them, it was a political choice. It was a political choice and there are undoubtedly very cynical reasons for this political choice. It excludes showing the revenue side and dramatizes over the cost lines. At the same time, a financial buffer will be created to make the country's budget strategy and to make the budget itself, to make the next year's budget itself, in order to implement its political priorities. I have no criticism, every government must be able to implement its political priorities through the budget. It is just that the way this extra budget is being brought before us right now is two-faced. The fourth lie is undoubtedly that all the costs that have been incurred before us relate to the corona. It is true that, in a series of additional costs of EUR 641 million, the biggest pieces are indeed related to the corona; the question is whether we have to compensate now for these sums and the reserves of the sickness fund right now. But this is basically a place of political choice. My attitude was that both the unemployment fund and the sickness fund's reserves are intended for a crisis situation and it is not justified that all these reserves will not be used and the government will simply pay off these reserves by taking the debt. But this is, as I said, the place of political choice. However, between these large pieces with a total value of EUR 641 million, smaller costs have been incurred by the party, which are awfully familiar from the budget negotiations as additional requests. And they're all that face that the Ministry of Social Affairs can always bring down costs of a medium or small size that actually has nothing to do with the corona, but what they ask for incessantly. The fifth lie, of course, is what was also affected by Aivar Sõerd, who spoke just before me: it is as if the government had no reserves at the beginning of the year and, as a result, it is now urgent to make an additional budget, because the costs are running and there is no money to be taken from anywhere. This is a number juggling and dishonest, public and misleading talk by the Riigikogu. In fact, there were sufficient reserves and these reserves could also be combined. I have a sincere wish that the government will not deal with concealing its failure on the coronariende with a bunch of lies. Nobody's gonna believe them anyway, and they won't be needed. Better deal with the fight against the corona, and for that we will not prevent the financial allocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U640	Aivar Sõerdi has a request for reply, I understand. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U641	Yeah, of course there's a reply request, because the previous speaker was talking a little mist. First of all, I didn't say there was nothing in the reserve. I said that, as we were informed, the reserve had EUR 20 million, which is obviously insufficient to solve the problems of the current restrictions and the new viral wave. The budget did not take into account budget buffers, hoped for EU money, hoped for future financial instruments and investments used last year. The budgetary buffers needed to compensate for and maintain jobs were excluded from the budget during the budgetary procedure under the leadership of the previous Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U642	Mart Helme, the rejoinder? That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U643	[[Remote connection]] Yes, thank you! Indeed, it is a little funny to look at the previous speaker after a fight with his fists. Exactly as well, we could talk about how Ida-Viru County is to be helped with money that does not exist yet and is hoped for and to be introduced as a solution to the problems of Ida-Viru County for Narva energetics, miners and everyone else. There's no need to do that, we understand, we weren't born yesterday. We're already doing several budgets, we've made budgets in our personal lives and businesses. There is no need for such political rhetoric. Please, let's do this together. We will adopt this additional budget quickly, aimlessly, in a clear and transparent way, and we will stop throwing stones at each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U644	The Minister of Finance has also wanted to conclude. Please, Mrs. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U645	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you once again for the questions you put during the debate on the budget and for the debate that could be held. There are a few things I need to respond to which were highlighted during these negotiations. First of all, the furious talk by the former Head of the Monetary Commission concerning the destruction of the second pillar of the pension system and the compensation of state contributions to those leaving the second pillar excluded from the budget for 2021. No expenditure shall be committed by the State or by the State without the right to do so being provided for in the budget. If we didn't correct this breach now, which has been included in this year's budget, then those leaving the second pillar of the pension would just stay with a long nose. The State Budget Act would then not have provided for the possibility and right to bear this obligation and to compensate for payments by the State to those leaving the second pillar. Of course, income tax on the contributions of those leaving the pension pillar will be received by the Treasury. No one's ever hidden it, that's right. The amount of income tax that will be collected is certainly greater than the amount of EUR 117 million that must now be included in the additional budget. But these two things, in this form, are to be linked to each other, which unfortunately shows that the person who has been carrying out budgeting in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for several years is either deliberately misleading or unaware of the rules on the basis of which the budget can be drawn up and on the basis of which the budget must be drawn up. Once again: if income tax is collected, this will increase the revenue generated by the year, which means that this year we will receive this income tax to cover further the large budget deficit created. It is likely that we will be able to borrow less, but it would not have solved in any way the problem that was forgotten from this year's budget and which concerned the payment of compensation to those leaving the second pillar. Secondly, borrowing and lending. The budget for 2021 spent by the previous government at the end of 2020 foresees the need for a new additional loan of around EUR 3.5 billion this year. A large part of this has already been planned to cover current expenditure on budget deficits in the period of economic growth. And although one of the previous speakers here tried to argue that there is also a substantial increase in the deficit to cover the additional budget and the unavoidable expenditure associated with the crisis, this plan, which we have and which has been made before April's economic forecast, says that we want to reduce the additional loan to be granted this year, to borrow less than the budget envisages. We would like to do this in such a way that the new loan amount does not reach 3.5 billion, but remains at EUR 2 to 2.5 billion. It also contains and must include precisely this short-term supplementary budget relief package. The argument, which is heard and used from time to time, is that it is not actually reasonable to take a smaller loan. A cheap loan, a loan with a low interest rate, no interest rate, or a negative interest rate, may be somewhat sedentary, but the carefree attitude that the loan never comes back and that the money comes from the wall, we must not afford any more. True... I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U646	Yeah, please, three more minutes! Eight in all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U647	It is true that borrowing must also be cautious in times of good interest, because these times of good interest may not last, and then we would be faced with a situation in which a large part of the money that is and would be needed to cover the country's essential costs must be used exclusively for the repayment of the loan. Thirdly, the general problem that the Reform Party has had in public finances for a long time and on which we have been very critical, and which needs to be emphasised here: concerns about public finances, the state budget situation did not arise in the year of crisis. This was not due to the inevitable costs of the one-off crisis measures that we had to do and that we supported last year. This problem arose many years earlier and arose because in good years of the country's economy, in good times, when there was no justification and excuse to let budgetary discipline go, in those times and in those years the budget deficit was increased. In the years when the budget deficit, the budget deficit under the rules would have had to be reduced, the deficit was increased instead. Last year's economic and health crisis amplified the pit to which we had actually been led in the past years. Fourthly, I really have a question for those who claim that there is a number of medical and health expenditure in the supplementary budget, a social expenditure that should not be there. Then come up with your specific proposals, which you consider necessary to withdraw from these medical and health costs linked to the crisis. Is this sacrificial aid? Are these expenses related to mental health? Are these child-related services, support for their mental health? This supplementary budget does not include expenditure, except for the second pillar of the pension, which is not linked to the crisis. And fifthly, quite finally, the truth is that the infected numbers started to grow rapidly in November last year, and therefore the questions why, in the budget adopted at the end of last year, last December, were not foreseen to cover the costs of a new wave of pandemics, a new wave of virus, are certainly justified. If these costs were already included in the basic budget to cover the costs of the new viral wave, the additional budget burden would have been significantly lower. Once again, thank you for the debate. As has been said, this support is very much expected, and that is why I am asking Parliament to deal quickly with the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U648	Thank you very much. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 357 be completed. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 30 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U649	We will proceed to today's seventh item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the Law on State Fees, initiated by the Government of the Republic. We are in the process of first reading and the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Andres Sutt will make a presentation by the Government of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U650	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the procedure of the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act, the Construction Code and the State Fees Act with number 301. The development of this draft is due to the need to bring Estonia's legal area into line with the new Directive 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Code of Electronic Communications. The European Electronic Communications Code regulates the main areas of the electronic communications sector as a whole, such as market entry, market regulation and supervision, frequency management and numbering issues, and consumer protection issues. The current Electronic Communications Act is also largely based on the legal framework of the European Union, which is made up of four directives that have now been integrated into the new Code at EU level. As the electronic communications sector is developing rapidly, it is also clear that the legal environment must go along with it in order to ensure smooth and smooth regulation of the communications market. It is therefore necessary to regularly review and modernise the regulatory framework. This is also supported by the growing expectations of society and the growing demand for modern and high-quality communication connections. Examples include mobile data communication, where the annual average annual growth rate of online data is 40%. In this way, regulation must continue to evolve in order to allow for such changes in a sufficiently rapid and flexible manner. The most important changes to the draft are as follows: Firstly, the introduction of new communications networks and co-investment in networks will be encouraged by opening up communications networks to other communications operators. The opening up of the network of undertakings designated as having significant market power to other communications undertakings for co-investment will also facilitate the roll-out of new communications networks among operators of different sizes and financial capacity and reduce the cost of building a communications network. All of this has an impact on consumer choice and the price of communications services. As a result, access to high-speed broadband services for the customers of the above-mentioned communications undertakings will be improved. Secondly, the definition of a communication operator is extended to applications provided through a communication network, i.e. so-called OTT service providers such as Skype, Viber, WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and similar applications. As consumers increasingly use different OTT services, which are similar in nature to traditional communication services such as calling or sending a text message, such extension is justified in order to protect consumers' rights. At the same time, I would like to stress here that the regulatory obligations on products and services are bound by the harmonisation of the mandatory elements of the communication contract, so that the consumer can get as close an overview as possible of the communications services offered to him by means of service contracts. Also, in the case of standard telephone or mobile phone callable products such as Skype, the service provider must ensure that the consumer has access to 112 free of charge. Thirdly, the requirements for the use of radio frequencies are harmonised. This implies an obligation for Member States of the European Union to do so at the same time as possible when granting radio frequencies in order to provide the same framework for communications undertakings in a Member State of the European Union to introduce new radio frequencies to facilitate a more harmonised development of services in the communications market throughout the European Union. It also provides for the possibility of sharing better practices between Member States in the use of frequencies. A central consultation mechanism has been set up for this purpose. Fourthly, transparency of consumer communications contracts will be enhanced and a requirement for pre-contractual information and a brief summary of the contract will be introduced. Pre-contractual information shall provide the consumer with as detailed an overview as possible of the communications services provided, which should prevent any subsequent misunderstanding between the nature and reality of the communication service provided in the contract. A brief summary of the contract will provide the consumer with an overview of the most important points in the communication agreement, such as a description of the communication service, remuneration, deadline, extension, termination, etc. It is important that, when a communication service contract is concluded, both pre-contractual information and a brief summary of the contract become part of the contract to be concluded. Fifthly, a comparison of the price and quality of the service is provided to the consumer of communications services, with the aim of giving the consumer the opportunity to compare the communications services provided by the various operators. To this end, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority will complement the existing communication service database, where it is already possible to compare the coverage and possibilities of communication services. Six. One of the objectives of the draft is to encourage the construction of new mobile networks, such as 5G networks. The draft law lays down the obligation to withstand the so-called small cell access points in English for buildings owned by the state or local government. Since 5G needs a more dense base station network, such an obligation will undoubtedly facilitate the establishment of networks by the telecommunications operators. The state or local government unit may charge a reasonable remuneration for the suffering in the event of the associated costs being incurred. It is important to stress that such an obligation to tolerate is not absolute. It also lays down grounds for refusal, which include risks to the life or health of persons or to national security. This change also requires the development of the building register, which is already in parallel. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority is responsible for the national supervision of the obligation to tolerate. Thus, the draft also regulates some individual non-Directive provisions aimed at promoting the development of the sector or ensuring national security. For the development of the sector, the draft plans to reduce some state fees in the State Tax Act. Thus, a lower state fee is set for ten-digit machine-to-machine numbers. With the introduction of new technologies, the number of devices on the communications network will increase significantly. I am thinking here of the rapid development of the so-called 'Internet of Things', in particular in the context of the development of 5G. This means that the SIM card we all know on our mobile phone is also placed in other devices that can be controlled by a mobile phone. Examples include heating appliances, different sensors, garden gates, or also a refrigerator. In order to promote the use of the Internet of Things, a large number of such machine-to-machine numbers are needed. Under the current state fee law, one ten-digit number would cost EUR 0,35. Such a price, however, is clearly slowing down the take-up of cleverness. Thus, the State Fees Act provides that one ten-digit number for machine-to-machine communications will in future cost EUR 0,05. For the purpose of ensuring national security, first of all, the draft contains a regulation that has long been put in place to regulate the management and use of radio frequencies during heightened defence readiness, state of emergency or martial law. In such cases, there are situations where the security and constitutional order of the state, or essentially the whole of society and the existence of the state, is at risk and the resolution of which requires more resources than usual. One such resource is the radio frequencies needed to resolve the situation for persons and authorities performing administrative tasks. Restructuring of radio frequencies in this case shall be carried out by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence. This was previously unregulated in the legal area, but in these circumstances the restructuring of resources has also been allowed for other resources. Secondly, in connection with the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Alert Centre introduced a new short number 1247 of the national assistance and information service in Estonia. Thanks to the new number, the burden of 112 emergency calls could be significantly reduced, as many calls only required information sharing, not the provision of emergency services. The state sees the need for a short number of 1247 in the future, provided that calling this number is free of charge for users. The draft therefore provides that the liaison undertaking must ensure a free connection to number 1247. At this point, I also consider it important to mention what is not in this draft. As there is much talk in the public about creating "backdoors" and the obligation to store metadata for OTT service providers, I would like to stress here that the relevant provisions are not found in this draft. Nor does this draft provide for an obligation to personalise prepaid mobile phones, which was also on the table during the procedure. Finally, I would like to pay attention to the security requirements for communications networks. Since the Chancellor of Justice considered that the relevant power of attorney of the Electronic Communications Act should be more thoroughly unwritten in the interests of legal clarity, as promised by the Commission, we will submit the corresponding amendments to the Riigikogu after the first reading of the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U651	Good minister! You have questions too. Begin Raimond Kaljulaid. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U652	Hello! Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, With regard to the procedure for this draft, the members of the Economic Commission have been approached with regard to the fact that in Estonia we collect metadata on people's communication, the metadata on communications, and we do so extensively and store this data for quite a long time, with the collection of all data, not just those of people who for some reason have reason to suspect criminal behaviour, or there is another reason that would lead to the monitoring of these people. As I understand it, this directive, which in its time created such an opportunity or obligation, is no longer in force. Why in Estonia do we keep those points in the law that oblige us to collect and store metadata?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U653	No storage and use of metadata is essential, inter alia, for ensuring national security, as well as for ensuring cyber security. These are the main arguments why the use and storage of metadata is deemed necessary. The Member States continue to have this right, and the exercise of this right is certainly also in the interests of security for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U654	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U655	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There's been a talk, you were talking about the development of 5G. To be installed in the network, equipment must also be installed somewhere. And my question is, what is this installation of 5G devices within the meaning of this law? Will it be voluntary or will it become mandatory, for example, from a local government perspective? Or are there any other options?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U656	Against the will of someone, the will of a private individual or the will of the owner, of course, the equipment cannot be installed on his property. What we are talking about when we are talking about a country or a local government, because of the obligation to tolerate, is the possibility of installing small cell access points, or small cells, on the buildings they own. Since 5G needs a denser network of base stations, that is one reason. As I mentioned in the introduction, the state or local government unit may charge a reasonable remuneration for the suffering in the event of the associated costs. And there are exceptions, as I mentioned. If we are talking, for example, about national security or a threat to human health, they cannot be installed. So I think these rights and obligations are well balanced in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U657	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U658	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Please briefly state what these major changes in this draft are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U659	Well, as I mentioned in my introduction, there are six of these major changes. We encourage the introduction of new communications networks and co-investment in networks by opening up networks to other communications operators. We will also extend the definition of a communication undertaking to the providers of OTT applications or services. We are harmonising the requirements for the use of radio frequencies. We will increase the transparency of consumer contracts so that the consumer has a clear understanding of what service he is actually buying, as in the case of financial services, as well as that there is pre-contractual information and a brief summary of the contract, which must be provided, and which is part of the contract. We will complement the consumer's ability to compare the price and quality of the service. Finally, this draft will also help to encourage the construction of 5G networks and support the development of mobile networks more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U660	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U661	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, good name! First of all, thank you! Looks like you're taking your job seriously, and you've gone into it well. However, my question is that a European Union directive also required market participants to cross-use networks to make the best possible use of this resource, but I have received information that this cross-use has still not progressed in existing networks. What about the Ministry's information and feedback? Do market participants actually want to abandon their monopoly position and share these networks with others in order to provide a better service and create better competition in the market? It's very important to move on from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U662	Thank you for your question. Supporting competition is certainly one of the clear objectives of this bill. When we talk about companies with significant market power, they have a clear obligation to open the network. It is also the case that this activity is monitored. The point of network development, in order to be able to develop these networks together, is certainly beneficial for competition. This is definitely the side we're watching in MKM and TTJA. So there must be competition in the market and this is very clearly in the common interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U663	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U664	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister Sutt! The question concerns the fact that a letter has been sent to me personally and, as far as I know, to other members of the Riigikogu in connection with this law. The adoption of this law opens up the possibility of the distribution of sensitive personal data or of public access where their handling is not permitted. Please comment on this view so that they can be answered in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U665	Thank you for your question. This bill certainly does not give anyone any additional rights to access personal data. When we are talking here about the obligation to store communication data, it is indeed regulated in this law and it is also precisely defined what access is and how it works. So I do not see any change here in terms of reducing data protection requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U666	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U667	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Then maybe I'll explain my question. We have Minister Sutt here at the Riigikogu sitting, Mr Pevkur presides over, and I am Raimond Kaljulaid in this Chamber. In what ways does the collection and long-term preservation of data on our phone calls, messages and Internet use contribute to the security of the Estonian state? Can you explain that, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U668	Thank you for your question. As with any security action, it's a) regulated by law, limited by law. That doesn't mean absolute access. I think communications and communications networks are part of strategic infrastructure. It is therefore necessary to maintain certain metadata and data throughout the communications sector. There is a very clear security dimension here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U669	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U670	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would like to clarify a little my previous question about the installation of these devices. Did I understand correctly that if a local authority does not agree to install these devices, that is the case and that it has the right to decide whether it wishes or does not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U671	Yeah, the local government has that right. If there is a moment of dispute and the local authority does not wish to do so, it will be able to make a statement to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which will then assess and decide on the merits of this request. In this sense, the local government has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U672	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U673	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I must first of all say, of course, that I do not understand at all why such matters need to be regulated at European Union level. It doesn't really have a logical and reasonable explanation. I am terribly upset by the kind of illusion that this bill has come to us. Here, introductory and everywhere, there is some wonderful talk about consumer protection and how one or the other agreement will protect us better, but the actual bill is about how the big brother is growing. The actual bill is about how our communication monitoring is regulated. And then there's the commercial text that says it's going to increase competition. I see that Vice Chancellor Siim Sikkut, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, has sent out a letter last week in which he writes again about these 5G bands that he is planning to issue three authorisations for the frequency band. I know it's been agreed for a long time that there will be at least four of them and one of them will be in reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U674	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U675	So what kind of competition are we talking about? I just wanted to understand. Yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U676	As regards the question of how many permits go to the 5G auction, we have not made that decision. There will be a 5G round table next week with telecom operators and also technology providers. So these decisions have not yet been taken today and there is a very clear interest in making a decision that best supports market development and competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U677	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U678	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! Explain it so a normal person can understand it. Okay, if, for example, you were acting on behalf of Chinese intelligence or me or our kind. Okay, I understand! But for example, some kind of Uncle Heino or Aunt Painting from somewhere else, how is collecting these metadata important for security?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U679	Thank you for your question. But I think that part of the answer is on the question itself. A communications company can't appreciate who may or may not be a threat. This can be assessed by competent authorities operating within the limits given to them by law. So I think that everything here is properly regulated and proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U680	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U681	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, The introduction of 5G requires the release of the older generation of radio frequencies from the [frequency band] for a new, higher frequency and, in fact, brings with it a number of problems, especially if we look again at distributed areas, because 5G is interested in market participants where the market is functioning, but where the market is not functioning, the distribution area will in fact be even smaller for people, because the higher the frequency, the smaller the coverage area. All of the older G's are in fact at a lower frequency. In reality, the state itself has built electricity meters, for example, on these networks. Will the state, in parallel, think about solutions in a market failure situation for those who are not actually close to home on the 5G Internet of Things and who are not able to use it, and in fact, the position that is today will also deteriorate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U682	Thank you. This issue, which concerns the availability of high-speed internet in Estonia and especially in areas that are scattered, is very important to me. The entire last mile issue is being actively prepared today. We have 69 million over the next budget period when we are both talking about the European recovery facility and the European Regional Development Fund to solve this very last mile issue. It is certainly my wish that all the last-mile options, the way we organise the competition, have been negotiated with the local authorities, so that we can actually reach those points where people really need to improve communication. 5G certainly helps with the momentum in densely populated areas and certainly in some places it is a solution outside the cities, but yes, the last mile is important, and that is what I have made a priority in the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U683	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U684	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I asked you a question about personal data, you answered me. After that, Mr Kaljulaid, a good colleague, asked a question about personal data, you answered him. And then Raimond and I looked at each other and we spread our hands because we didn't understand anything you said. After that, Peter Ernits came out of that TV screen, who said that Aunt Maali didn't understand either. I'm gonna ask you again. Please tell me what these security criteria are and what are the bases for which it is necessary to collect and store these data.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U685	First of all, this draft law does not change any form of the draft law on the protection of personal data. The protection of personal data, as you probably well know, is regulated by the e-Privacy Directive, which is a separate act. So we are not going to make any changes to the rules in force here with this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U686	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U687	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I have this question: if now the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Code of Electronic Communications is taken over by us in the Republic of Estonia, in so far as the adoption of this new set of standards gives us the freedom to regulate these same things on an internal basis, on the basis of our own law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U688	Thank you. A certain degree of freedom is maintained. What we are taking over is the new European Code of Electronic Communications, which actually merges four previously existing European Union Communications Directives. So, in a sense, it is also a matter of clarity. But not all things are regulated by the directive, and we always have the possibility to clarify laws at the legal level of our country to the extent that the directive leaves the ends open.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U689	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U690	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We know that the Court of Justice of the European Union also established a precedent for the light-handed release of these metadata, which means that maybe this is what makes a snowball roll. But I would ask you whether we understand clearly that, in the case of serious crimes, we have a duty to provide these metadata to other countries, but to some insurance agents and wholesaler chains we do not give these data if, for example, they claim that someone has been in a parking lot somewhere for over three hours. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U691	I will then specify, as far as the protection of personal data is concerned, I will repeat this once again, there will be no change in this draft. Now that you refer to this preliminary ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union that, as a result of this, the whole regulation on the retention of data will be reviewed, I know that the Ministry of Justice will deal with this issue thoroughly, so that the solution is in line with EU case law and will ensure proportionate protection of the public interest as well as the right of the person to privacy. For this purpose, the Supreme Court's position on the use of data also needs to be awaited. So I think that, in conclusion, this principle of proportionality will certainly be guaranteed and maintained here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U692	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U693	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It seems to me, Minister, that you do not really know what is going on in your administration. You said earlier that the decision on the 5G band has not yet been made. Let me read the letter that went out of your ministry at 12.03, where it's like this. Siim Sikkut writes: in response to your 19.02 letter, we announce that the state will first issue a public call for applications in three 5G bands. So it's already been decided by what he says. But I'll come to another point. There was a last-mile discussion about how we need to connect to small rural areas. The previous government set up a pilot project to cover all of Hiiumaa with this final connection. It was in this sense a good project that it was in cooperation with the local government, it was [so prepared] that only the money would be paid and immediately went. Now you've come to power and you've canceled this pilot project. How does it go with the rhetoric that you really want to develop this last mile?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U694	Yeah, two questions. This reference to the letter of Siim Sikkut. In order for everyone to understand exactly, the answer was that the three-licensed option is valid and that the four-licensed option has been developed in the same way. Whether there are three or four permits is a separate decision-making place and this decision has not been taken today. Now, with regard to the development of communications networks and the issue of the last mile, nothing has been reversed. This 10,5 million measure, which was issued in addition to the nine telecoms operators, is also working and is also working on the development of this broadband network. As I said, there will be a total of 69 million in subsequent European Union funding periods to develop the last mile. It concerns Hiiumaa, it concerns southern Estonia, it concerns Virumaa and every other region of Estonia, where we still have a white area today. My wish is for these competitions to be well prepared in the future, for clearly defined criteria to be negotiated with the local community and municipalities, and for us to really reach as many people as possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U695	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U696	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Minister, thank you very much. With regard to this bill, I wanted to ask that, in fact, this 5G is increasingly topical and we are almost a little late. One of the issues is the sharing of frequency bands. But at the same time, we have a neighbouring country here, Russia, which has basically booked itself a pretty sweet piece of this band that could be used for 5G, but we can't do that now, because the Russians are saying that they're using it for satellites and military and [I don't know] what kind of thing. I know that earlier attempts have been made to talk to Russia and [it has been left] relatively ineffective, except in Finland, which has, however, gained some part of it. Does the European Union have to have such a directive, or has Estonia itself tried to keep going? Is there any perspective? Is there any chance you can see?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U697	Yeah, thanks! It is true that we need to argue with our eastern neighbour on this issue and these consultations have also been held. As you pointed out in the question, Finland has found certain solutions there. In fact, today we will continue to consult telecom companies on the basis of the feedback that has come from the Russian Federation, so that these frequency bands can be used most in Estonia. So this subject is known, we are dealing with it, but I think it is also fair to admit that it is certainly not the simplest conversational partner in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U698	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U699	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. 5G is undoubtedly connected to Huawei's technology. My question is quite simple. We know how China has lobbied very strongly by Huawei, while we know that China is very strongly involved in intelligence around the world, also... How do we behave? If... Using Huawei's technology... we'll get a huge Chinese resentment, maybe some sanctions as well as compensation claims from the possible television operator. If we accept this, we will open the doors to know which intelligence facilities and very deeply resent our...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U700	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U701	...the greatest ally. How do we behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U702	Thank you. This question sums up all the challenges that the 5G issue is. That is why it is very important that, before we can talk about the auction of frequency authorisations, we need to set standards for security requirements for the communication network. These decisions which requirements we propose for communications networks as strategic infrastructure are, in fact, a consideration between the interests of national security and the business interests of companies. This proposal for the five-year transitional period until the end of 2025 is, in our opinion, a compromise and a reasonable medium between these two objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U703	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U704	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! For me, it is actually important that there is one simple question here so that the story that happened to us in the General Data Protection Regulation does not happen. When we introduced this infamous GDPR, we accepted the law, and thus our overall legislation increased in terms of pages, sections and content. Will our legislation now increase or decrease if we adopt the directive on electronic communications? Will bureaucracy increase or decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U705	I think that by this law we have nevertheless set out to clarify regulation, to make matters more understandable to consumers when we talk about contractual relations. It is certainly neither my intention nor the intention of the ministry to create additional bureaucracy with any draft. Whether regulations as a whole become more detailed is, I think, a broader and philosophical issue. If I look at the timeline, certainly in time, regulations in different sectors have become more detailed than they were ten or 20 years ago. But once again: we have no intention of creating additional bureaucracy, rather of creating an environment that is understandable both for the consumer and for the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U706	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U707	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! A year ago, when we were dealing with this cluster bill, the big problem was that volunteers who come to work on this phone line start to get crazy with their data. Then long speeches were made about how important people's data are to us and how we have protected our health data from medical companies and everyone, for example. I'd like to ask you what the current situation is. To whom is Estonia obliged to provide metadata and which crimes? Because the Minister of Justice, when he went to Europe, in the Committee on European Union Affairs, said that it was a major crime. In the case of what crimes is Estonia obliged to provide its partners with metadata, and will it change or will Estonia protect its own personal data?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U708	Well, as I said once, the protection of personal data does not change in any way. A more accurate comment on the subject of personal data protection is clearly within the remit of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice. So here we are not taking any steps towards changing the level of protection of personal data. It's all gonna be the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U709	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U710	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Andres! What measures could we take to ensure cybersecurity in 5G networks, or very high capacity networks? What of these measures is already reflected in this law and what more needs to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U711	Thank you. All of these measures that guarantee cybersecurity and cyber security, when we are now talking specifically about this 5G communications network, in fact, this more precise regulation is at the level of this regulation, the regulation on security requirements for communications networks, which, in turn, expects us to introduce it before the adoption of this draft law. As I mentioned at the end of my report, the Chancellor of Justice's request is that we meet and make these powers more legal. Then this regulation can be introduced. All these requirements have been well set out in the regulation in order to assess precisely this strategic communication infrastructure. This includes the involvement of both the Foreign Intelligence Service and the Defence Police Department in the assessment of a different technology and technology provider. So we have certainly taken the security aspect very seriously. The reason, as I said in the introduction, is that the arrival of the 5G network and the use of 5G on the Internet of Things make us very dependent on technology, and we need to be sure that whoever is a partner of this technology provider is reliable for us. More specifically, this regulation is regulated and awaits the adoption of this law. So I hope that the Riigikogu will be able to process this law quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U712	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U713	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You guys used to throw a sentence in the air that's caused a lot of confusion. That's why I'm asking you to explain clearly and clearly to everyone what's going on with these metadata. Are they collected or will they be collected for what purpose and for whom and under what conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U714	The metadata are still being collected. Prohibiting the storage and use of metadata would lead to repercussions in terms of ensuring the security of the state, ensuring cyber security and conducting criminal proceedings. However, as I have repeatedly emphasised, this law does not change the regulation governing the protection of personal data by any notch. These provisions are in other legislation and we will not reduce anyone's privacy with this legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U715	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U716	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good Andres! Attorney-at-law Carri Ginter has said that new KGB files will be put together under the Electronic Communications Act. And now: "The new files not only concern the elite, but all of us. The files contain the same information about the former Prime Minister and the usual girl Katrin. If necessary, the data can be compared and it can be verified whether the parties were present at the same time and with whom they were there. With this information, it is possible to pressure the parties to make decisions that they would not otherwise make. " Tell me, does Attorney-at-Law Carri Ginter not know the field? And is the law you're presenting here related to the new KGB files, the collection of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U717	... reason to believe that Carri Ginter does not know the area of justice. I can also confirm once again that no requirement for the protection of personal data will be amended by this draft. So I don't think we should see a ghost where he's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U718	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U719	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, In addition to security issues, any new technology raises questions about its impact on our health. It is no secret that there are so many Facebook groups worldwide and that entirely adequate television channels have had opinion studies and programmes to show that the impact of 5G on human health has not been sufficiently studied and we do not know what effect it will have on our DNA and genetic engineering and other things in decades' time. Is there a research organisation in Estonia that is involved in this? Where do we get our own knowledge base to avoid or mitigate these risks? As we saw last weekend, there are car groups of honkers who just sow confusion and say that 5G technology is "from Satan." How do we mitigate these risks and actually examine its health effects?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U720	Yeah, thanks! Today there is no evidence-based material to suggest that 5G poses a risk to human health. We will also order an additional study this year, under the leadership of and in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, aimed at analysing the results of published research and evaluating practices in other countries. So there's going to be this kind of additional study. This study has also been supported by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. I believe that there is further confirmation that 5G does not actually pose a risk to human health.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U721	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U722	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Would you point out some of the points of discussion that, when the draft was in the coordination circle, gave rise to the most debate and could not be received by the Ministry and the parties' proposals taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U723	Thank you. In fact, there were quite a number of amendments. They are on a total of 58 pages and many of them have been taken into account. With which we will certainly continue to have an important role to play, and on which we are also consulting, this is precisely about the deployment of 5G networks. So I think that the consultations we have held with the liaison companies have also been held by the previous ministers. During my term of office, I have met all the telecom companies that have expressed their wish, we have also held several rounds of consultations and round tables. So I think we're still moving on. As I mentioned earlier, we will meet again next Wednesday on the 5G issue. It is my wish to proceed as quickly as possible with the framework of this law and the 5G competitions, as the legislation allows, so that we can also put the introduction of 5G into practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U724	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! The debate in the Economic Commission will introduce us to Kalvi Tõvi. Please, Rock!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U725	[[Remote connection]] Guys, I'm gonna make sure I'm not seen. Uh-huh! It is now! No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U726	Well, you did something about it, so take it off. I can see you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U727	Good friends! On the 15th day of this month, the Honourable Committee on Economic Affairs met and, as a third item on the agenda, this draft was discussed. The Commission was invited by the Minister and assisted by the Minister's advisor Helmuth Martin Reisner and the Head of Communication Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Tõnu Nirk. So that I don't forget, let it be said that the Commission also made decisions. It was decided that today the draft was in the Riigikogu for discussion, that I was appointed rapporteur and that it was proposed to finish the first reading. These were all consensual decisions. There was a very lively debate on this bill in the committee, just like today in the Riigikogu. I pointed the finger at the protocol and saw that all the issues that were asked about in the Commission were also raised in the Chamber today as questions and received exactly the same answers from the Minister. So, ladies and gentlemen, print out this draft, put it on the nightstand, and the Commission is expecting amendments by the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U728	Thank you! There are no questions, however, because we have two questions on this item [each member of the Riigikogu], good Martin Helme. So that's how we've heard the co-report. I'm opening negotiations. Please, do the groups have a wish for a word? Andres Metsoja, on behalf of the Fatherland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U729	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Thank you, too, Kalvi Tough! It's probably not the best nightstand, but I don't know. Well, in fact, the European Union's directives are not Estonia's biggest problem. It is not a question of how we store metadata or how they can be retrieved. This is not Estonia's biggest problem, but Estonia's biggest problem is that certain regions are being left behind. It is left behind in the sense that we are developing an e-state further, but the availability of this e-state or teleworking is becoming increasingly scarcer in time. After all, we can all see this from our own experience, even here in the teleworking format, where the combined transmission of two television images, a speaker and a television picture of the hall alone is already causing problems, and we are asking for the picture to be closed so that the text can come through. It clearly shows the strength of our network, or it is actually more accurate to say weakness. However, the solution is also not to change the operator or service provider, because often the operator capacity exists only on one, not on two or three, not to mention more [the provider]. In my opinion, there is a serious problem in Estonia, and perhaps here the impact of Europe is quite difficult for us, because Europe is still in many ways a densely populated area, that we are scattered. This regulation comes across Europe. Where the market operates, where the communications companies can operate on market terms, and where the market does not work, that is, where we have these much-spoken white areas, a different solution must be obtained, namely an additional injection of money, either from the local budget or from the budget for support measures. In fact, when they meet service providers, they are already telling them today, and it is also difficult to blame them for that when we talk about market economy conditions, they always want to offer a service where the market works, where there are as many customers as possible. Why should one fully-sighted operator offer a service in a region where you have ten customers, but the construction and maintenance of this communications network costs so much that it never earns back? We have actually reached a situation where we continue to talk like a mantra, that the construction of a cable network across Estonia is super expensive, that is beyond force and that is unreasonable. There has also been talk about a 5G solution that magically solves Estonia's entire question, no matter where we live, but it has now been understood that 5G also needs the same cable, a light cable, on which to develop its own equipment park and deliver the service to the end user by air. It actually creates a dimension that is not done where the market works, where it does not work. We are actually sitting in front of the next challenge, where we will probably have to discuss soon whether the operator service needs to be subsidised. If we've been talking about a communications network so far, now we're probably gonna be talking about an operator service subsidy. Or perhaps the separate solution is that we are introducing additional national networks in a distributed area and trying to propose these solutions on them. But, good members of the Riigikogu, let us not see an endless ghost in the context of European directives. I do not think it makes sense to see it in the metadata either, whether or not the IP address was saved, when the call started or not, whether or not the operators should give it up. I think it is a question of the rule of law how to deal with it. This bill should be taken very seriously and Estonia needs a serious tiger jump, or I do not know what the jump is, a parachute jump, so that our communications networks can be repaired and operated so that they can operate as many as possible. That's the objective, I understand. This bill is on the table. So we process it and try to make Estonia's digital state and teleworking more accessible for people in Estonia. Thank you and your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U730	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 301 and we have finished the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 8 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U731	We will move forward with item 8 of the Act 344 on Supplementing the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, first reading. It is presented by the Government in Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U732	[[Remote connection]] I hope you can see me and hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U733	You can see it and you can hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U734	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 8 March this year, the Government of the Republic submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law supplementing the Electricity Market Act. The draft is important for improving the competitive position of Estonia as the location of investments. The end price of electricity plays an important role in the competitive position of large electricity consumers, both today and in the future, compared to other Member States. Most of our neighbouring countries have either completely withdrawn the fees for financing renewable energy support schemes from the electricity price of large consumers or have significantly reduced the fees. For example, Finland finances the fee from its national budget; Latvia and Lithuania grant benefits to large consumers. The amendment to the bill is important in the context of large-scale foreign investment offers made in Estonia. The final price of electricity is part of the key factor of the person making the investment in order to decide where the investment is to be made in the host country. Today, the price of electricity to the final consumer is higher in Estonia than in neighbouring countries, which also hinders attracting additional investments to the country, including the possibility of reducing network charges and renewable energy charges. In order to reduce the final price, the financing fee for the renewable energy support scheme will be differentiated between large consumers and the rest of consumers. As a result of the upgrade, regulation will be introduced which will allow large current and future electricity consumers who consume more than 10 gigawatt-hours of electricity per year to pay a lower renewable energy fee from 2023 onwards. This advantage will not only improve the competitive position of today's large consumers, but will also allow new consumers to start operating in Estonia. Increased consumption is an opportunity to reduce the cost of network services and the price of renewable energy. Consequently, this addition will provide an additional opportunity for all consumer groups to reduce the final electricity price. Why is this happening from 2023? The reason is that by then we will have a reduction in renewable energy subsidies to the extent that it will be possible to reduce the renewable energy fee for large consumers without affecting the fees of other consumers. The fee shall be reduced to the minimum allowed, i.e. 15% of the standard fee. Dear members of the Riigikogu, please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U735	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U736	[[Remote connection]] Thanks! Good minister! I have a question and maybe a comment. Of course, large consumers must be supported and kept here in Estonia. But the concern is whether this is not at the expense of smaller producers. In your speech, you said that different countries have different practices, and you pointed out the example of Finland. In Finland, large consumers are supported by the state budget. What were the alternatives and analysis of the various alternatives in preparing this draft? Did you consider [alternatives], and why did you choose this particular way of supporting large consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U737	Thank you. Yes, indeed, countries have different practices. How we came to this was that we really found that electricity consumers in Estonia, especially large consumers, are considerably more expensive than in our neighbouring countries. With this draft, we would gain a competitive advantage in electricity prices vis-à-vis Latvia and Lithuania. True, the price remains higher than in Finland and Sweden, for example. At the same time, it must also be taken into account that other taxes are higher in Finland and Sweden. As regards the different alternatives, there is indeed a subsidy in Finland and it is covered by the state budget, but the money in the state budget is exactly the same as the money paid there by the taxpayer. So there's nothing to do, these fees and benefits will come in a way or at the expense of all of us. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again that this draft will be in force in 2023 precisely because these renewable energy subsidies will decrease and therefore other consumers will not suffer. By the way, other consumers, too, will still be subject to a reduction in the rate of renewable energy over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U738	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U739	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Minister, First of all, you didn't answer the Hard question. The question was, what were the alternatives that would not burden ordinary consumers and small businesses in order to exempt large consumers from the renewable energy charge? I'm asking for an answer! What alternative options did the Ministry have to consider? But, as a whole, it is all wrong, which you write, that this [draft] is designed to reduce the cost of renewable energy for large consumers in such a way as to make life better for everyone. In fact, if you look at your own explanatory statement, it is clear that small businesses and households are paying for the reduction in the renewable energy fee for large consumers. The question is: why was the exemption of renewable energy charges for large consumers not implemented in a way that unfairly does not impose this burden on small businesses and households?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U740	Thank you. I don't think it's possible to invent a perpetum celle, unfortunately, so far no one has succeeded. And somewhere with these tools... In fact, these instruments don't have to come from anywhere. This result will be achieved through a reduction in support for renewable energy production. Yes, we can say that for large consumers, the price of electricity will be reduced more than [the price] would be for ordinary consumers or small consumers, but in the same long term it will be in the interest of all consumers to have large producers, because it will help reduce both network charges and renewable energy charges for everyone else. The problem with Estonia is rather that we do not have large companies and large consumers, and they do not exist because in other countries large consumers have already received benefits that we do not have.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U741	Thank you. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U742	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, It is, in itself, an important draft, but the statements made by my fellow Members, Mr Ossinovski and Mr Kalvi Tõvi, have all the content and the idea. Perhaps it would be worth considering in the course of the procedure whether there could be some angle for small producers, because in rural areas, for example, if you are far from a substation, the connection of electricity is quite expensive. Those who made it before 1 January of this year to set up their small solar power stations, the deadline fell on 1 January, managed somehow, but those who would like to enter the market today, have no opportunities. In fact, perhaps a small exception for large producers would help to create this balance for small rural producers. It's worth thinking about, actually, there's a point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U743	Thank you. After all, the legislator certainly exists in every democratic country to consider drafts and make the best decisions. Today is the first reading, there are certainly proposals in between the readings. But once again, we must certainly not forget what the purpose of this draft is. This is a draft aimed primarily at increasing Estonia's competitiveness and making it possible for us to have more large consumers. For example, there should now be about 11 companies that could invest in Estonia, and in many ways their investment decision may depend on the price of electricity for large consumers. When these investments come to Estonia, both the transmission fee and the renewable energy fee will become more favourable to all other consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U744	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U745	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. 70 gigawatt-hours of additional consumption, according to your own explanatory statement, the renewable energy fee will decrease by 0.8%. As a result of this draft, renewable energy charges for ordinary consumers and small businesses will increase by 35 to 40% in 2026. This is the real place where small businesses and households are paying for the difference in the price of renewable energy for large consumers at a third higher rate of renewable energy, which I believe is unfair. The objective is the right one, but a different way of financing should be found. Since you continued not to answer what alternatives were being considered, I will ask you more specifically. Did you consider and should you not consider it more reasonable that we should finance these major new offers under the Electricity Market Act from the state's quota revenues and thus significantly lower the renewable energy fee for everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U746	Thank you. As I said in the previous reply, all these good proposals are certainly welcome. The Riigikogu is competent and established to decide on the laws. If you have any suggestions on how to do this in an even better way, of course they are very welcome. However, in addition to this 0.80% reduction in the renewable energy charge, the transmission fee will also decrease by 1%, so that overall, it will still be 1.8%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U747	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U748	[[Remote connection]] Thanks! My question was inspired by Imre's question. I understand that this does not concern this bill, but since it was possible to obtain support for small solar power stations until the end of last year, my question really is next to this bill. Has this idea been discussed in the ministry, and may we see at some point that perhaps small solar plants, those that feed one household, will be supported again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U749	Thank you. This question really does not concern this draft. But unfortunately, this solar-station support measure, which was in force until the end of last year, was actually done, especially with regard to small-scale buildings and also apartment buildings, in order to develop solar parks in them. Unfortunately, what happened was that businessmen were smart and when the volume for one company was limited, the park that was made on the field was made up of dozens and dozens of companies and this scheme was used. Now, really, the fact that we have finished this permanent support gives us the possibility that in future we will have a reduction in the renewable energy fee and that it will be precisely through a reduction in the future that all these parks will receive support through auctions. But once again, if there are good proposals to be implemented so that small house owners and residents of apartment buildings can build solar parks in the future, these proposals are certainly welcome. Once again, however, there must be a great deal of consideration here in order to prevent these support opportunities from being abused again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U750	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U751	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I think we all remember that already years ago, the National Audit Office stated that if we lose these renewable energy charges, then in fact, all electricity producers are already in profit and will remain in profit. So for years, Estonian entrepreneurs, as well as the rest of the consumers, have simply paid someone a huge profit. Of course, production must be encouraged, that is the basis for all our well-being, but whether it should still be at the expense of small consumers and small businesses is a matter of its own. You said that renewable energy charges will decrease over time anyway. So when do we get to the point of our consumers getting away with this burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U752	Well, actually, if we continue with the system of auctioning renewable energy subsidies, renewable energy charges will remain. In order to put an end to them completely, auctions in support of renewable energy must also be abandoned, i.e. support for renewable energy must also be completely abandoned. This is certainly the legislator's decision whether we want to abandon it and whether we can also achieve the renewable energy production targets that we have set ourselves in the event of abandonment. Yes, it will certainly end at one point, because technology is developing and renewable energy production will soon be possible on a completely market-based basis, without renewable energy losing its competitiveness. I wouldn't rule out that this could be a subject to be dealt with. But yes, once again: it is important to consider whether we will achieve our climate targets if we do so when we abandon this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U753	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U754	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Those were very good answers. I stress that my question did not directly concern this bill, but I was indeed inspired by the questions of Kalvi and Evgeni, and I think that there is actually a place to sit down and think. I fully agree with the Minister that it should not be allowed to simply take advantage of the situation and be structured. But let's face it, the main schemers are the biggest, some end up even tied to a state company. In fact, small producers in rural areas who could not build their power plants were lost because of COVID. However, as the issue relates to renewable energy, it is possible to think about how, even as a group in some countries, it has been solved on the side of both producers and consumers, because of the change that occurred last year, but it would still be possible to join this scheme. It's worth thinking about and considering here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U755	Thank you. I fully agree that if there are good solutions, they must always be used, and the more we use renewable energy, the faster we can achieve our goals. So if there are any good ideas, surely it is wise to consider them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U756	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. We can now also hear the view of the Economic Commission, presented by the Chair of the Economic Commission, Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U757	[[Remote connection]] Hello! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 15 March. I shall say the procedural decisions from the very beginning. The proposal was to put the draft on the plenary agenda today. There were 7 members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. And the second, make a suggestion to finish the first reading. There were 7 members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. Now for the substantive debate. I guess that substantive debate was on a lot of subjects that were already asked in the Chamber. The Minister for Economic Affairs introduced this [draft] and the first question was that the reduction in the price of network services would not be at the expense of other consumers. Taavi Aas confirmed that according to today's knowledge and plans, this price will not be more expensive for anyone. In order for the law to enter into force and the scheme to start, the beginning of 2023 has been chosen as the compensation for renewable energy begins to decrease. There were many questions about this, the questions were the same as in this Chamber, and the Minister also confirmed that [the price] will not be more expensive. Then Sven Sester asked if it was the same bill that had been prepared for a long time in the previous coalition. Taavi Aas confirmed that it was prepared in the previous coalition and this principle, in order to bring the competitiveness of the industries to a better position than our neighbours through energy prices, has, in fact, been a policy and debate in the economic field for years. Riho Breivel asked why there was no lowering of network charges. There was also a debate on this issue, but on network charges, Taavi Aas explained that it did not produce such an effect as to attract industry. This draft should bring this effect, and in addition, we have used the possibilities of establishing direct lines in the past. They're about six kilometers from memory, but that's one or two. One longer discussion topic was how this scheme or this option should apply. Annely Akkermann raised this issue and others had the same question. However, in order to benefit from this advantage, economic operators should describe their use of energy in a sustainable and efficient manner. For this purpose, the draft has been written in order to require a certificate. As it is known to those who have come into contact with this area that companies are already carrying out energy audits aimed in the same way at cost savings, efficient use of energy and the management of input from industries, the question was whether the two could overlap. There we received the answer that this could be the case in theory, but since this matter needs some clarification, between the first and second reading it is probably one issue in the sense that there would not be more bureaucracy, but of course it would be a logic that, if it were to be in the area of state aid in the future, it would comply with the rules. In short, we must deal with this in the Commission and in the Riigikogu in any case. Well, there you go. That would be, in short, what was discussed in the Commission, and I have already presented the procedural decisions to you. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U758	Chairman of the committee, the members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. So we can open negotiations. Mr Ossinovski has asked for the floor first on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U759	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu should reject this law today at first reading. Firstly, because the first sentence of this draft explanatory memorandum is purely incorrect. This first sentence reads: "The draft law supplementing the Electricity Market Act aims to reduce the final electricity price in the short and long term for all consumer groups. " It's just a lie. In today's situation, due to the fact that old renewable energy projects are exiting the renewable energy scheme, renewable energy prices will be reduced three times to all consumers in the next three to four years. It will change three times for all consumers. Without this bill, it will be reduced three times to all consumers. The purpose of this draft is to increase the charges for renewable energy for most consumers compared to the situation if it were not. Thus, this draft will result in a 37,5% increase in the renewable energy fee in 2026 for most electricity consumers in Estonia, according to the forecasts found in the explanatory memorandum on page 9 of this same draft. Indeed, one group with a significant reduction in renewable energy charges as a result of this draft is 70 companies that are very large consumers of electricity. As I said and have said before, indeed, regional competition is an important issue for this type of business. As a member of the government, I myself have contributed to implementing, for example, the excise tax credit paid from the state budget for energy intensive enterprises in order to improve their competitive position. It is undoubtedly worth thinking about further ways of making electricity prices more competitive for these companies. There is certainly now one possibility that has been brought here today by Minister Aas, which was actually prepared in cooperation with Martin Helme in the previous government, and which really increases by one third the electricity bills of all electricity consumers, our households and the electricity bills of the rest of Estonia's business. Renewable energy charges will increase by a third compared to the situation if this bill had not been adopted in order to improve the situation for 70 companies. Personally, I don't think that's fair. The objective, the target is understandable, understandable, and a solution should undoubtedly be found here, but it is not fair to increase the renewable energy fee for ordinary consumers and small businesses by a third in order for 70 companies to receive a 85% renewable energy premium. It just isn't right. Now, the minister asked what could be a reasonable alternative proposal. I am very sorry that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not considered these alternative proposals, because they are, of course, well known to the Ministry. I think this proposal is very simple. This proposal is to reject this draft today and instead to reach the point that we are planning to announce these new fewer offers this autumn and next year in order to meet our energy economic development plan and the renewable energy targets of the climate plan, these are going to be large fewer offers, there really will be additional costs, we will finance from the quota revenues of the Estonian state in 2026. It can be done. These amounts from quota sales are significantly higher than we have planned because the tightening of the European Union's climate policy, including increasing climate ambition to 55% by 2030, will lead to a significant increase in the price of the quota unit, and this is a very targeted and sensible way of financing additional renewable energy production capacity. In this way, all electricity consumers in Estonia would receive a three-fold reduction in the price of renewable energy, and even more in the future. This would help all consumers, both energy intensive and actually. I'd like two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U760	Please, two more minutes! Seven minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U761	And this would not result in the injustice that most Estonian consumers, households, should start paying off the benefits to individual large companies. Now, two more little facts. It is said that as a result of the increase in production of 70 gigawatt-hours, potential investments will materialise and then the renewable energy fee will fall for everyone. Like I said, it's really falling. According to the same explanatory statement, 0.8% will fall. Okay, let's get more network service, 1.8% total. But we are talking about the fact that this draft will increase the renewable energy burden on households and most companies by 37.5%. This is the massive leap in the price of renewable energy, which in 2026 hits almost all Estonian consumers. This is definitely not right. The second and final point is that it is actually also necessary to obtain a European State aid licence for this scheme. State aid authorisation in the context of the Renewable Energy Directive. Things are changing in European law. This state aid is needed. Maybe you don't get it, maybe it's obtained under some other conditions, which means you're going to have to change this scheme. In fact, this does not give companies sufficient investment certainty that this target will work in reality in five years' time and in ten years' time. If the Estonian state would take and say that the following large renewable energy less supply projects actually move out of the renewable energy scheme, out of the consumer tariff and are financed by quota revenues, in fact, the entire Estonian investment climate and the business climate would give a much more positive signal that renewable energy charges will fall three times in Estonia in the coming years. I think that would be an important signal. Consequently, our positive good proposal, which the Minister wanted to hear, is: reject this draft and ask the government to solve this financing of offers from quota revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U762	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U763	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would like to say that the draft itself is important, but those aspects that have emerged here today during this debate are actually important, and I have to admit that Mr Ossinovski has a point completely inside of it at the moment, which is tending towards supporting large companies. If last year had been perfect, perhaps we would not have had such a situation, but we know that COVID, which came last year, did not allow very many small businesses to build their own power plants, even small power plants in rural areas, and that is why they actually suffered. They could not build their stations by 1 January and it was not dependent on them; it depended on the fact that COVID simply stopped the construction of many stations well. Since it is directly linked to the renewable energy charge, the situation is indeed slightly out of balance at the moment. I would not say that there is now a need to completely reject this bill. As the Minister pointed out, it would actually make sense to negotiate this draft during the procedure and to look at how it can be balanced so that it is not only inclined towards large companies. Small rural producers, especially those suffering from COVID, would also be protected by some element of balance. Indeed, as Mr Evgeni said, this really increases the prices of all energy consumers, including households. So if, in the course of this procedure, there were some compromises between the large and the small, and especially between the fact that rural areas would not lose out, because they simply did not have enough time to invest in renewable energy projects, because, unfortunately, the COVID came and ruined their plans, then the procedure for this draft could actually be postponed. I call for this draft to be supported, but to be guided by the Minister's promise that, in fact, we could think in a constructive debate about how this bill could be improved. And then we will be able to look further at what the Commission thinks about how the Commission, listening to all parties, both large producers and small producers, could find some compromise here. Thank you, and I invite you to stop reading the first reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U764	The political groups have no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. We have received a proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party to reject the draft Law on Supplementing the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at first reading, and we need to vote it through. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose that the Social Democratic Party Group reject the draft Act on Supplementing the Electricity Market Act, as initiated by the Government of the Republic, 344. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U765	There were 7 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 80 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. That concludes Bill 344 at first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 8 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U766	The ninth item on our agenda today is draft law 347 on the prevention and control of communicable diseases initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, will introduce it on behalf of the Government of the Republic at first reading. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U767	[[Remote connection]] Hello, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will then give an overview of the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and related amendments to other laws 347. The aim of its initiation is, in particular, to make the necessary changes to legislation to overcome the crisis in COVID-19 more quickly and to support the Health Agency in addressing health emergencies. More specifically, five major changes are foreseen. These are the extension until the end of 2021 of the temporary allowance for sick leave; secondly, the achievement of legal clarity in the reimbursement of sick leave, which is then due to quarantine; thirdly, the clarification of the competences of the Health Board and the government, including in the area of law enforcement measures; fourthly, the inclusion of law enforcement bodies and related matters; fifthly, the clarification of misdemeanours and the harmonisation of the levels of fines. I will continue to give an overview of these issues. In the case of sick leave, a temporary and more favourable solution will apply from January to April: employers will compensate for the sick leave from the second to the fifth day of illness, the sickness fund from the sixth day. Today, as I have pointed out, this procedure would end at the end of April, our aim is to extend the more favourable compensation until the end of the year. We see and know that the COVID-19 pandemic is, unfortunately, far from over. This procedure, in particular, promotes the possibility for workers to stay at home immediately as an infectious disease, as it provides them with a greater livelihood. The second amendment I referred to is the procedure for reimbursement of the sick leave in case of quarantine. At the moment, it has been a concern that some employers have not considered it necessary and appropriate to reimburse the sick list with a justification for quarantine. There really is a lack of clarity between different laws in this legal space. And the Chancellor of Justice has actually considered it necessary to achieve legal clarity in legislation. The amendment adds the explicit basis that, in the case of quarantine, the same compensation scheme applies as in the case of ordinary illness: as I indicated, from the second to the fifth day, the employer will reimburse, from the sixth day onwards, the sickness fund and the reimbursement rate will then be 70%, as is the case in the current law. In fact, close contacts have received from the Health Insurance Fund a regular medical record that has been opened by family doctors, and this means that the clarification of the quarantine regulation will not entail any additional costs for employers. The third amendment is, as I have pointed out, the clarification of the competences of the Health Board and the government, including with regard to law enforcement measures. During this crisis, there have been legal disputes or it has simply been unclear how precautionary measures can be taken to prevent the spread of different infectious diseases. The specific draft clarifies, for example, that in addition to the temporary closure of schools, childcare facilities, social services institutions, the Health Board and the Government have the right to temporarily restrict their activities. Maybe it'll make the order a little more flexible. It is not such a black and white solution, either closed or open, but it is also possible to make certain temporary restrictions. Similarly, flexibility will also be given, for example, to prohibit meetings and other events so that the necessary requirements for the organisation of such meetings can be established to ensure infection safety. The fourth issue, then, is the inclusion of law enforcement bodies. According to the draft law, the possibility of involving the Police and Border Guard Board and other law enforcement bodies in the performance of the supervisory tasks of the Health Board is clearer. So far, there has been no clear regulation of inclusion, and the Health Board has only been able to cooperate with law enforcement authorities on the basis of requests for assistance from the authorities or through the exchange of officials. The introduction of regulation will simplify the organisation of inclusion and speed up this process. Any more precise conditions and procedures for inclusion shall be laid down by a regulation by the Government. The fifth amendment concerns misdemeanours, fines. If, under the law in force, the offence can be punished for violation of the quarantine rules, the draft provides for the possibility of prosecuting people even if they have violated the requirements and orders laid down by the Government or the Health Board. For example, it is an obligation to wear a mask or a restriction on freedom of movement or a restriction on the organisation of events. The draft provides for a financial penalty of up to 200 fine units, or EUR 800, for natural persons for infringements of the requirements to prevent the spread of an infectious disease, and a financial penalty of up to EUR 32000 for legal persons. At present, all infringements of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases are dealt with by the Health Board, but according to the draft law, the law on out-of-court proceedings for these misdemeanours will also be obtained by the Police and Border Guard Board once it has been involved in the performance of the tasks of the Health Board. On the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, the penalty rates for misdemeanours are also harmonised. That concludes the report on the draft. There are some minor technical changes which have been explained in detail in the draft itself and in the explanatory memorandum. I am happy to answer all questions from members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U768	Let's go to the questions, the waitress has questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U769	[[Remote connection]] Dear Minister, I'm asking about sick days. Indeed, as you rightly said, the epidemic has not ended, but we have actually come to a disaster. And in this situation, also having experience of the previous autumn, where it has already cost us a great deal to do with the implementation of sick days, I ask what are the circumstances that the government is unable to make this decision in any way so that the coronal sufferers receive 100% of the first day's [reimbursement] so that they are not deducted from their pay for having received a positive corona test. Today, both the Minister of Finance and Lord Aab both said that, well, we cannot find 8 million in an additional budget of EUR 600 million. Well, that's not serious! Why are you doing this, Tanel?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U770	Mr Ossinovski, thank you for your question. More favourable compensation for sick days is certainly a sensible and correct measure. I am very pleased that we have obtained an agreement in the government, first in the previous government and now in the present, that we will be reimbursed from the second day of sickness, not as usual by law, as we know from the fourth day. As a result, people's right to receive the necessary compensation and to ensure that they are able to cope is clearly greater than would have been the case during the normal period of application of the law. This amendment, which concerns the second to fifth days, has been negotiated very thoroughly with employers' trade unions. In fact, at that time, there were different options on the table. Broadly speaking, there were four or even five options. One was indeed compensation from the first day, but the options were also to stick to the normal arrangements and introduce a separate disease leaf system for COVID-19 disease. But the issue of inequality immediately arose with other sick pages when it comes to influenza virus or any other medical condition that causes the person to be on the sick page. Finally, in the course of these discussions, this second to fifth day compensation was agreed as a temporary measure. Certainly the Social Democratic Party also values these tripartite negotiations, the joint agreements with the social partners, they are trade unions, they are employers or they are the country that is all really involved in this process, and they also contribute financially. In any case, I consider those employers who have already decided to reimburse workers from the first day of sick leave to stay at home to take the right course of action. In fact, the fact that an employee stays home sooner, not later, of course, also supports a particular employer, a working collective, reduces the risk of infection. I know that many health institutions have partly made this distinction for vaccinated people who have done their best to prevent COVID-19 disease. In the same way, I recognise the Tallinn City Government, which has initiated an additional support measure for people who have remained on the sick list, to the extent of EUR 30, so as to also [promoting staying at home and compensating] for the loss of their income. There are certainly opportunities with which both employers and municipalities can contribute further if they so wish. I think that this debate and the debate on the future of a fair procedure for the reimbursement of sick leave, in the long term, should also, in any case, be held. My personal view is that it would be very positive if we could get such a longer solution. At the moment we are talking about this year, we are talking in particular about the COVID-19 pandemic, but in fact the system that, from the fourth day onwards, is normally compensated, in my opinion, is not right and fair. I hope that we will also be able to resolve this issue in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U771	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U772	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. People's fundamental rights include the right to live in fear. Now, reading this bill, I wonder whether we are creating additional mechanisms for coercion and repression under this law. Society is already tense, aren't we going to create more tension with this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U773	Thank you very much, dear Merry Aart. I very much agree with you that society is currently tense, society is exhausted from this crisis, tired, needs positive emotions. At the same time, I also believe that at the end of the tunnel the light actually shines and we are getting closer to it through vaccination, through seasonal changes that contribute to reducing the spread of the corona virus, through sensible behaviour, both as entrepreneurs, employers and as individuals. This specific law enhances cooperation between law enforcement bodies, reduces bureaucracy in particular, I would say that it is rather a feeling of security for people who are acting legally, who want this COVID-19 pandemic to end, who want to return to normal social life. Unfortunately, some inaccurate information has appeared in the media, particularly in social media, in the various measures that have been discussed. These are not new measures; they are the existing law enforcement body's possibilities under law enforcement law today. And their implementation, as far as all possible restrictions or restrictions on the freedom of persons are concerned, supervision, the imposition of fines, all of which are intended for people who violate our common sense of security, who knowingly do not comply with orders, rules, who contribute to the spread of the virus and actually prolong the crisis. Law - abiding, sensible, health - conscious people certainly do not have to be afraid of this bill in any sense. On the contrary, it will increase our collective sense of security and help us get out of the pandemic more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U774	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U775	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In July 2020, § 2 of this Act has been amended, which contains the characteristics and list of particularly dangerous communicable diseases. Under this definition it is possible to place a completely uncontrollable number of possible diseases and this version, which means that the wording of § 2 gives the Health Board the right to apply disproportionate restrictions and coercive mechanisms to the entire Estonian society. And not just the change you're planning now, but the coercive measures are now. The Defence Forces have a forced vaccination, so are Olerex's employees, the police are under pressure to give you a vaccination. It's crazy what's happening right now. Please, Minister Kiik, stop the coercive vaccination immediately and take this bill back! Don't you know that the people are literally on their hind legs right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U776	Thank you very much for this comment, I guess that didn't really include the question. But the people must certainly not be misled; the people must certainly be given false information, false information. You can't scare people by saying that the legislator is planning something he's not planning. In Estonia, vaccination has always been voluntary, just like other health services. No one is being coerced. The dissemination of this information, its claim, is imprecise. And just as we are talking about other fears relating to legislative changes, cooperation between law enforcement authorities. All these issues have been discussed in the field of health, internal security, justice, data protection inspection, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, more generally between ministries, and now they are discussed in depth in Parliament. Estonia is the rule of law and it will remain the rule of law in any case. Rather, this specific legislative amendment will help to increase legal clarity, improve people's sense of security. In any case, I think it is reasonable and right to move forward with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U777	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U778	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The last two months, as well as today's very long working day in the Riigikogu, clearly show that this government is unlikely to be able to cope with even the itching. And the cherry on the cake is a law that is partly unconstitutional, completely interferes with people's privacy and is also disproportionately repressive. If a member of the Riigikogu were tempted to vote in favour of this law, he would violate his oath of office. How do you suggest that the members of the Riigikogu calm down and calmly break the oath in front of your people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U779	Thank you very much for your question and comment. Once again, this specific law is, in any case, in accordance with the Constitution, in the opinion of all the lawyers who have looked at it. There are no additional and robust mechanisms, and there are no possibilities for repression. In fact, all of this exists in different laws, which only improves cooperation between the Health Board and the PBGB. It's getting easier, more legal. And certainly voting in favour of this bill is one way that every member of the Riigikogu can contribute to speeding up the crisis, in the same way as to supporting people, for example, with regard to the extension of the early compensation system for sick days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U780	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U781	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. How does the proposed amendment to the COVID-19 crisis contribute to the resolution of the COVID-19 crisis through the reimbursement of sick leave, which imposes an additional tax burden on companies? In particular, in addition to compensating for sick workers' sick sheets, operators must start to compensate for the sick leaves of workers who are in quarantine. This means that about 50% of the tax burden will be added to businesses. How does this help to maintain entrepreneurship and thus jobs? It is obvious that the increasing burden on tax liability will only boost the bankruptcy of companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U782	Thank you very much for your question. As I pointed out at the beginning, the reimbursement of so-called quarantine sheets is particularly necessary in the interests of legal clarity. Today, people who remain self - isolation are given a sick page because they really risk being infected. In order to protect their lives and health and to reduce the infection of others, they are on the sick list, which means that it is currently being reimbursed in accordance with the legislation in force. At the moment, the second to fifth day is reimbursed by the employer, starting on the sixth day of the sickness fund. In fact, this amendment to the law does not entail additional financial obligations. And when compared to the earlier period, where the employer had to compensate for the fourth to eighth days and the sickness fund paid for the ninth, the period to be reimbursed has actually been shortened. At that time, it was four to eight, or five, days, and now it has been the second to the fifth day of the year, or four days. So it can be said that in the case of employers, mathematics shows that their financial cost would rather fall in normal circumstances. Of course, under the conditions of COVID-19, the use of the sick list is certainly higher, but additional funds are also foreseen from the sickness fund. And, of course, it is also the role and responsibility of all employers to contribute to ensuring that the work environment is as safe as possible on the ground. And if possible, teleworking can also be applied at certain workplaces and when it comes primarily to close contacts, not to sick people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U783	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U784	[[Remote connection]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U785	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U786	And the question is very simple: is the government going to change its rhetoric?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U787	Thank you for your question. Definitely scare somebody, I don't think. This must not be done either by the government, the Riigikogu or by any public office. This isn't about scaring anybody. It is about overcoming the crisis; it is about preventing a pandemic, which is supported by sensible rules, their enforcement, monitoring, information, and, of course, vaccination, as has been said, by people's own perception of danger, as well as by the gradual improvement of weather conditions. In this sense, I am optimistic that every next week we can also see a downward trend in the number of infections. Hopefully, we can gradually bring down this amount of anxiety in society, which is actually not caused by these rules, but by the crisis itself, the spread of COVID-19 disease, the high number of people infected, the high number of people in need of hospital care. And here, surely, both the Riigikogu and the government can and will contribute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U788	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U789	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Here colleagues have previously pointed out that this is a controversial draft because there are doubts about the implementation of the Constitution. And that's what he is. I also refer to the fact that if the draft is meaningless, it is, in any case, unconstitutional. However, the question is rather based on the fact that, when I look at the explanatory memorandum to the draft, the explanatory memorandum begins with words that indicate that the drafting of the draft is based on a government agreement for the years 2021 to 2023. Now it is necessary to dispel my suspicion that the idea of developing this bill is to comply with some point of the government's mysterious agreement. Is there a [back] political [agreement] here, or does it have a deeper meaning?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U790	Thank you for your question. The main aim of this draft law was, of course, to provide the necessary additional legal means to improve cooperation between law enforcement bodies, but also, as indicated, to support people so that they could be able to stay home more quickly, to ensure that they were able to cope. And several points, when you look at the coalition agreement, were inside. We are working together to overcome the COVID-19 crisis, as well as prolonging the more favourable settlement of sickness days imposed by the previous government. We'll extend this scheme until the end of the year. In this view, the draft is, of course, linked to the achievement of the objectives agreed in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U791	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U792	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Over the last six months, we are already discussing the revision of the NETS for the second time. The first time, at least two aspects were as important as today. Firstly, the obligation to wear a mask and the possibilities of checking it, and secondly, I remember, there was quite a serious debate in the Committee on Social Affairs on the subject of quarantine leaves. At the time, we thought that the regulation that still exists was enough. I have a question. I understand that more has been said about lawyers now, and you have also confirmed in the Commission that this is the case. Do you have any idea how many companies are affected by the fact that there were differences of opinion on the quarantine sheets? After all, some companies interpreted it in such a way that they do not have to pay compensation to workers in the case of quarantine sheets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U793	Thanks for the questions. First of all, I agree that, of course, it would have been better if we had been able to anticipate all these issues and concerns in the course of one legislative amendment. In fact, as usual, new information and experience are constantly acquired. Many of the concerns that came out during the first wave were in the meantime, [spring summer] and during the summer solved legislation. However, certain concerns and issues appeared rather during the second wave, for example, because the rules became somewhat clearer. While we were dealing in spring with a recommendation on masking indoors during a period of high transmission of infectious disease, it is now a rule, covering the nose and mouth, which in turn also required legal clarification. Similarly, this concerns the organisation of vaccination. After all, it was only during the second wave that this took on a much more topical dimension and made it clear which places in the legislation are those that need further [to be specified]. With regard to quarantine procedures and compensation, there have really been appeals to us by both contractors and employers that there is no clarity. Indeed, there is room for interpretation between the various laws that deal with it slightly differently. This means that it would be easier for all parties to know in the same way in the law whether or not the quarantine sheets will go under the normal system of reimbursement of sick leave. According to this bill, they're going. In fact, as I have pointed out, [there is a need for a change] precisely in order for people to comply with the requirement of self-insulation in close contact, in the case of quarantine, to remain at home. And in the past, there has been an agreement that they will also be given a sick page so that they can receive the necessary compensation, compensation, so that they do not have financial motivation and the need to work in close contact. We know that during certain periods of close contact, one in ten, sometimes even more, later became infected with the disease. This means that if they had all been at tens of thousands of jobs, at different events, the spread of the disease would be even wider. I don't have that exact number in the employers' view, but these requests were for us and the Chancellor of Justice. It is precisely in order to ensure legal clarity that we are in front of Parliament with a proposal to amend this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U794	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U795	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. To be honest, I heard some pretty crazy talk from you in the context of sick days. Of course, long-term ideological disputes about the extent to which people should have ownership, and so on, all of this can be done and a long-term solution sought, just as the sustainability of long-term healthcare funding can be addressed. But we're having a disaster right now. The disaster is now! It is not a question of what we think about sick days in normal circumstances. We need to resolve this and we know that the existing restrictions have not had enough effect. And we're going to need that 10-15% reduction in infection. And now eight million can't find, the Minister of Finance spoke. You say we were looking for solutions, but we didn't come to an agreement. Who should be convinced in the Government of the Republic that this is an essential measure and that it should be decided quickly in this parliamentary procedure? Who does not realize, though, that in the present situation, 100% of the corona days must be compensated for from day one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U796	Thank you very much for your question. I agree that decisions must be made more quickly in times of crisis and that the development of a specific draft law has clearly been faster than usual, due to the time-critical nature of these issues. As far as reimbursement of the model sickness record is concerned, a more favourable option would certainly support even more early stay at home. However, when we are talking about the amendment that will enter into force on 1 May, it is 10 to 15% of the [loss] that you referred to in your question, it would not help to achieve, or even if it would help, in the second spring. We really need to stop the spread of the contagious disease now and now, to achieve a downward trend. However, this must be done within the framework of existing legislation. In March-April, it is actually important that we are able to slow down the spread of this virus by complying with the rules in force, the laws in force. I dare make predictions that this week we will actually see the first downward trend compared to last week. Hopefully, the downward trend will worsen in April. And when the new package of legislative amendments comes into force, it will in turn provide an opportunity to continue the downward trend in May, to keep it in the view of the reimbursement of the sick leave and of cooperation between the different institutions, so that the control of compliance can be maintained until there really is a greater proportion of the population, say, the vast majority of the vaccinated, protected against the disease and we can gradually begin to ease the restrictions. Certain measures, certain rules may remain through the summer. But these are the places where it is important that there is also a clear legal space under which law enforcement bodies exercise supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U797	Kalle Grünthal, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U798	Thank you, Mr President. I have just been informed through messages that a member of the Riigikogu Rene Kokal has problems with the Internet. I have a proposal that you ensure contact with the members of the Riigikogu, as provided for by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, and take, as you see fit, a small break to find out what the reason is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U799	Thank you. Let's first try to find out [without it], wait for a break. But I see René Chef is also on the line with a procedural question. Please, René!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U800	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, thank you, Kalle! Looks like the connection just came back, but it was the same, an analogous problem during the day that it throws out and throws it out of order. Either way, there's a problem, but it's okay now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U801	Got it. Rock Hard, question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U802	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Tanel! It is no surprise that I still ask, of course, about the reimbursement of sick days from day one. Help me think about it or think about it with me! We have divided Estonian society in two today. To some people we say be good people, go homework, stay in your home office, do your job there. If these people feel a little unwell one day in the morning, they'll do their job at home and probably won't be taking the sick list immediately from the first day. So it's okay. After all, the Prime Minister even attended Riigikogu meetings when he was ill for a few days. But those people who have to go to work in the morning, cook us bread, milk cows, do other very important jobs, these people have to go to work and, as a rule, their wages are lower. And the one day they lose their pay is very, very important. What must happen to this pandemic in Estonia so that you can start to think about it quite seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U803	Thank you very much for your question. Of course, we'll think about it. In fact, it would be a special solution that would remind us of this time of emergency, after all, as a temporary solution. We have indeed reimbursed these sick days in the context of an additional budget. We have now gone down such a longer-term solution. At the time, it was for an emergency period; at the moment, however, we are talking about the whole year in essence. From January 2021 until April it has already been decided by the previous government to compensate for the second to fifth days, and now another eight months hopefully, by adopting this law, this could be added to the additional budget. In fact, this extra money, the additional resource to compensate for the sick leave, has been allocated and, in fact, there is a clearly more favourable procedure for employees compared to the normal law. I very much agree that there are certainly those contractors for whom this one day is important. I thank and congratulate all the employers who have come to help in this case. As I referred to earlier, under the current regime, employers have a slightly shorter period of reimbursement than before: four days instead of five. In this view, employers will also be able to compensate for the first working day if they so wish and thus compensate them exactly five days as before, just this period is the second. At that time it was from the fourth to the eighth day, now you'd be the first to the fifth, starting with the sixth sickness fund. It is certainly necessary to support people, and I hope that solutions such as those implemented by Tallinn will still follow the municipalities, that this call or this measure will also be followed to support those people who, through local authorities, fail to make up for the first day of sickness may be important to cope with the [obstacle].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U804	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U805	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Not very surprisingly, but I will continue on the same subject. It has already been said here several times today that more than half of the active infection sites are workplaces. And today it has also been said that there are many examples that if a colleague receives a positive test, he will only announce a few close contacts, because that is the kind of request he has had from his employer. The employer tries to count his money and not send half of the collective or more to the sick page. He's trying to keep the money. And this is particularly the case for smaller companies. I understand that you do not agree with the Socialist proposal to reimburse 100% from the first day of sickness. But in this case, what are your plans or your steps to ensure that companies do not hide these close contacts and start to comply with what is proposed to them by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U806	Thank you very much for your question. This [hope] on the awareness of the population applies to everyone, both employees and employers. I think that, at a time of crisis, it has become clear to many, both entrepreneurs and individuals, that, in the case of any disease, it is a COVID-19 disease or any other dangerous infectious disease, going to work is, in any case, a short-sighted activity. In fact, this risk of becoming more seriously ill, of infecting others, of stopping all the work of the institution in the worst case is so much more damaging than this temporary absence, it is then in order to maintain its own health or in close contact with [others' interests] in self-insulation. In any case, it is reasonable, and also in the interests of the employer, that all close contacts be temporarily absent, even if this means temporary restructuring for the employer up to a short-term limitation. The risk that this virus will grow seriously across the collective is still a major source of long-term health concerns and health damage for people, and therefore for the entrepreneur himself. So I very much hope that here too, members of the Riigikogu, all political parties will contribute precisely to shaping reasonable awareness and behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U807	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U808	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I hear you say that there will be no compulsory vaccination in Estonia. I don't understand where you live or whose orders you follow. Yesterday in this very hall, Defence Minister Kalle Laane and Commander of the Defence Forces explicitly said that they intended to start vaccinations. There's an order in the army, and the chief's orders are to be executed. As far as the production of fear is concerned, I think I'm not producing fear, but your mainstream media is only passing on the news on the corona, as if the rest of the world were locked up. Please withdraw this draft today because it is unconstitutional. And important: Stop the compulsive vaccination! Otherwise, I'm not a coronabant, but you, Tanel Kiik, are a coronabant.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U809	Thank you. I guess the question was, what kind of world do I live in? I think we all live in a common world. One of the worlds we have on which we're moving, the same way we're keeping in this particular crisis, trying to get him out of there. The Estonian legislation does not provide for compulsory vaccination, as I referred to earlier. I don't know how it's gonna look. I assure you, there won't be one. Vaccination is voluntary, it is always a person's right and opportunity to refuse vaccination if he or she does not consider it necessary. However, I strongly recommend protecting myself or others' health through vaccination, in any case it is a reasonable choice for health and it will help us out of this crisis, out of the epidemic more quickly. I don't think I'm going to comment on the second half of the question concerning the Coronabant.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U810	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U811	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Today we have already heard the Minister of Regional Administration and the Minister of Finance on this board. They confirmed that compensation for the second day of sick leave is working. People stay home when they're sick. That's very good, but 16 days after the restrictions have been applied, we haven't gotten an R below one yet. That means there's more to be done. We are now telling the low-wage earners who, following the rules, stay in the home in a corona-positive manner, thank you, good citizens, a fine of EUR 95. Shouldn't we take down this fine of staying at home to help limit the spread of the virus and not put this obligation on the hands of the so-called low wage earners in the form of a fine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U812	Thank you for your question. I'll start with the first part of the question. R0 of course we can evaluate a little bit in retrospect. Actually, today we don't know the 24th of March R0. My best estimate, based on current figures, indicators, also to some extent on the experience gained during the crisis, says that this week, however, we are seeing a decrease in R0; this week will be a smaller number than last week. We'll see if that happened or didn't happen on Monday morning. This also means that the restrictions have worked, the last of which entered into force on 11 March. It hasn't been another 16 days, but as we know, restrictions always have an impact with delay. Testing itself is always with a certain delay, the infection in turn still back from there with a delay. Perhaps today's tests do not reflect the picture that is today, but reflect the picture of the infection that was last week and in which people's symptoms gradually appeared at the beginning of this week and at the weekend. We will soon see the numbers for this week, especially at the beginning of next week. With regard to the reimbursement of sick leave, once again: I think that the steps that have been taken have been in the right direction. You can always ask if you can give more financial support, even better. Certainly, and here I am thanking and congratulating those employers who do so, also considering that the period of compensation for employers themselves has been reduced in line with the temporary amendment to the law. And I certainly also recognise the local authorities, who, at the head of the city of Tallinn, provide additional support so that people can stay at home. There have been quite a lot of different support mechanisms, when we look more broadly at the measures taken through the unemployment fund, the grants granted through the state budget and the additional budget. Compared to the crisis 10 years ago, we have clearly more than ever wanted to guarantee social justice, to support people in difficult times. And we have more financial means than we had at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U813	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U814	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Last spring we gave a lot of decision-making powers to this Health Board, and now we should also give it to the police. At the time, I asked you, do paragraphs 192 and 193 of the Penal Code apply? Today I ask you whether, at this moment, paragraphs 192 and 193 of the Penal Code still apply. And say at least one argument as to why the police cannot implement these paragraphs, so we need to grant additional rights and powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U815	Thank you very much. The laws still apply in full in the Republic of Estonia. With regard to cooperation between the police and the Health Board, what really matters here is that the law gives the PBA the opportunity to support more the work of the Health Board, to carry out certain tasks with the so-called authority of the Health Board. Here the very important difference is that the Health Board is about 20 times smaller than its staff. It is reasonable that the various law enforcement bodies work more closely to resolve a large-scale crisis where there really is a need for wide-ranging action. And certain specific measures can best be monitored by the Police and Border Guard Board, which has now helped to do so within the framework of the Agency's assistance, but at the cost of somewhat greater bureaucracy. As far as procedures are concerned, the Health Board has actually had to play this role. From now on, it would also be possible to do so directly on the PBA, if the government and the national authorities so provide.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U816	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U817	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! We probably have a different view of citizens' freedoms from the government. This is also borne out by the demonstration that took place today in front of Toompea Castle, where there were a few dozen people of great concern. They were not just concerned about this law, but about other repressive and muzzled changes in the law caused by pure black wickedness from the government. But what I'm trying to say is that if we already have an emergency law, there's no question about how the police are being used or why I'm being used by the Defence Forces. Today, you've figured out some strange health emergency, you're probably giving the police the functions of the health gestapo against their will. But at the same time, we've got limits open, any bum might come in, no evidence anyone's asking for, no quarantine hotels we don't have. It seems kind of controversial. These messages coming from the government are insane, containing zero bits of information...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U818	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U819	...and make it look like a lunatic twitch. Are you guys ever gonna pull yourself together and tell people you have a plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U820	Thank you. I am not going to comment on this, people are still entitled to express their opinion. This has always been the case in Estonia and will continue to be the case. There was a comment that somewhere there was black evil. Well, I certainly do not agree with that statement. The government's objective and the purpose of launching this specific bill is to protect people's lives and health. With the diagnosis of COVID-19, over 800 people have died today, over 5,000 people have been in need of hospital care, and about 700 patients have been in hospital care every day. In fact, these numbers, unfortunately, have not shown a downward trend and we know that the number of deaths can only rise, unfortunately. In this view, it is important for the government to contribute, in particular, to legal changes, financial support, and undoubtedly to reasonable communication to prevent the virus as quickly as possible. As regards cooperation with the PBGB, this is an additional measure and an opportunity to do so. We certainly have nothing to do against anyone's will, as you indicated. Rather, all of this has come from life itself in many ways. There are practical needs, practical concerns that we want to resolve with this law. One more observation. The idea of the corona hotels, that's pretty much what I agree with. This is a measure that could be implemented. There has been a great deal of debate and debate on whether it could be voluntary or compulsory and how to carry it out. At present, border testing is generally possible. If, for some reason, a person gives up the possibility of testing, fortunately few people do so, then he or she is obliged to remain self-insulated. Today he does it in his own home, but it's always possible to choose another room for it. This idea of hotels has actually been through government discussions, both in the previous government and in the current government. It has not reached completion in Estonia. There are few countries that have tried it. But I think that is certainly a matter to consider, especially given that the infection will certainly be introduced from abroad in the future. And that is precisely the risk of introducing new mutations that are more aggressive and perhaps more immune to the vaccine than can be said to be the case, unfortunately, remains high.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U821	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U822	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue as a follow-up to my previous question. To my previous question, you replied that there would be no increase in the tax burden on businesses with a new type of sick leave. You even tried to give the impression that the tax burden on businesses would be reduced. Why are you lying? There is no news for anyone, and it certainly cannot be news for you that there is an epidemic now, not a normal situation. As a result, the volume of the sick leaves has increased by about 50 to 60%, due to people suffering from coronal disease. Now that the disease leaves for close contacts, the volume of the disease leaves will, of course, continue to grow. The resulting obligation to pay compensation falls under this draft as an additional tax liability for undertakings. It's obvious. I understand that you have the interests of people first of all in mind with this amendment, and that is right, but at the same time, entrepreneurs must not leave the role of orphans. Why did you put such an extra burden on businesses and, for example, did not allocate additional funds from the supplementary budget to the health insurance fund to pay these quarantine benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U823	Thank you for your question. I'm not lying. I haven't done this before or today. As far as this legal space is concerned, I referred to the fact that in the past there was a legal space where the employer had to compensate for five days, i.e. from the fourth to the eighth. The temporary solution currently in force, day two to five, we want to extend. Actually, this period has been shortened. That there are more sick leaves, I referred to in my speech and answers. Of course, the epidemic has increased the number of sick leaves. This has not been done by any changes to the law; it has indeed been done by the faster spread of the COVID-19, just as it has unfortunately contributed to the higher unemployment rate, which the government has helped to reduce, in cooperation with the unemployment fund, by its decisions, both the previous and the present, in cooperation with the Riigikogu. But there is no way to talk about the effects of decisions taken at government level and at the level of the Riigikogu and the effects of the COVID crisis. This crisis has not been triggered either by this or by the previous government. As far as the reimbursement of sick leave is concerned, as I referred to earlier, at present, close contacts are being issued with sick leaves in so-called "normal" procedures. This means, in the same way, the obligation for employers to compensate for the second to fifth day and the obligation for the sickness insurance fund to reimburse from the sixth day onwards. In this case, it is more of a question of legal clarity that, in the future, people who are in close contact will not be prescribed a sick list with the usual disease sheet code, but a quarantine sheet that is better suited to their current situation. They are not necessarily sick, although some of them are actually infected, as the statistics show. They are in close contact and in quarantine they receive compensation on the basis of a quarantine sheet. The basis for reimbursement will change, the number of sick pages to be reimbursed will not increase from this change. It is precisely the faster prevention of the spread of the virus that will help to reduce the number of these pages and, more generally, the number of recipients of the sickness benefit, and that is why different measures are needed. To this end, different aids are needed, requiring rapid progress with vaccination. We have actually done all this in the past and in the current government. You asked why the necessary extra money would not be allocated. In fact, EUR 12 million from the additional budget is intended to provide the sickness fund with the additional compensation for these same sick days due to the spread of the epidemic and the fact that there are more sick leaves. The role of the health insurance fund in their reimbursement is actually increasing compared to the laws in place in normal circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U824	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U825	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. It's really hard when you've lived so long and seen so much in your life. I remember, somewhere in the '70s in the last century, we had foot-and-mouth disease. Spreaded all over Estonia, also in Latvia. And what was done then: the borders were closed, the population was informed, through newspapers and television radio, which roads are available, where there are checkpoints, where there are disinfection points. Lunchers lived in a barn for two or three days, couldn't get out, disinfected and so on. Within a few weeks, it was done, it was done, the foot-and-mouth disease was won. We've been struggling for a year, and why? 'Cause first of all, we're not closing the line. Second, we cut the dog's tail in pieces all the time. My question is: when will the government decide to close the border so that we will not be brought in more of a disease in the form of special strains and also in the form of known strains?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U826	Thank you for your question. When we are talking about closing borders, in the previous government, this opportunity was for every Minister of the Interior who played that role. Could have temporarily closed the border or made a proposal at government level. As far as the current situation is concerned, most of the infection, as we are well aware, is being spread within the country. Some percentages are introduced, sometimes even less than all cases of infection. In fact, the main concern is to get a large spread on the ground to hold. And if you look at Estonia's figures, which are at the top of Europe, we see that our own epidemiological picture and situation is worse at the moment than in neighbouring countries, in most European countries or, essentially, in all of them. [Nextly] depends also on the test capability. So this volume of introduction, precisely quantitatively, is actually not a problem at present, rather a problem of national distribution. However, I agree that special attention must be paid to these special strains, such as testing, sequencing. The necessary funds have also been allocated for this purpose. [Helps] specifically to prevent and prevent travel. I agree with that, however, that I personally support the abolition of such travels when travelling to exotic countries. This makes sense in the view of the people, in the view of the entrepreneur, in the view of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U827	Helle-Moonika Helme, please! There's no connection. Moonika, we can't see you, we can't hear you. Try interrupting once and then we'll try again. Then let's move on. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U828	[[Remote connection]] Hi! Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U829	You're on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U830	Here's the question. Between Valga and Valka, the Latvian border guard will carry out checks as early as 1 February. From 1 March, in addition to previous things, Estonian people must be accompanied by a certificate on paper that the corona sample is negative. And this paper sample is only valid for 72 hours. On the Estonian side, every grocery store is full of Latvians every day. And it is a miracle that there are all sorts of rules for our people here in Estonia, but the government has the view that let the Latvians carry the virus to the people of South Estonia, that it is nothing. There are no rules for Latvians.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U831	Thank you very much for your question. Latvian infection rates are currently around four times lower than in Estonia. This actually means that Estonia, even the safest regions, is then South-Estonia, it is the region of Central Estonia, is more infected than in Latvia on average. The risk of the virus being introduced from Latvia is rather unlikely. If, figuratively speaking, there are 100 customers or visitors in the shop, half of them are Estonian people, half are Latvian people, unfortunately, the current situation is more likely that people who are ill are precisely among our fellow citizens, our fellow citizens. It's certainly important to get the virus spread to keep it under control, to get these numbers down. Then the image of infection in the South Estonia region will also improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U832	So, procedural, Helle-Moonika Helme. Now we hear. Do you want to ask your question now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U833	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, I want to ask you that question. I'd just like to talk about this law, but unfortunately we must also perceive the context in which we are now. We know that laws in themselves may not be repressive, but the problem may be how this law will be furnished. We've heard direct threats from the Prime Minister, the head of the Scientific Council is talking about bringing the army to the street. I am pleased that the Minister himself is optimistic, but who is to believe in the Prime Minister or the Minister? These conflicting messages, which your government as a whole communicates, do not improve the situation and do not build trust. If we come to this bill, it is quite natural that, after Kaja Kallas' statement, we all understand or suspect that we are actually going to discuss a law that is capable of establishing a police state. This law contains many such paragraphs, which the threatening Prime Minister and the current government can formulate when we adopt this law, that there are very unpleasant repressive and antihuman things. Do you confirm or disprove?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U834	Thank you very much for your question. I'm sure I will. At the level of the government regulation, only the role of involving law enforcement bodies in the work of the Health Board and the Health Board as a substitute for supervision can be furnished. Which rules apply, which rules can be laid down - these rights are actually regulated at the level of the legislator - they cannot be decided in any way by the government to a greater extent than this specific law allows. In fact, the vast majority of these measures and rules can be imposed on the basis of today's law. The only legal option that comes up when we talk about containment measures is that there is a right for an infectious person, if he moves around in different groups or if he is in public transport, in some shopping centre, to have the right for someone who does not follow orders who knowingly infects other people, to take him home or to another place where he cannot spread the disease to others. That's the only point that comes up. Of course, this is the kind of measure that will be taken if a person fails to comply with orders if he or she actually knowingly infects, if it is known that he or she is positive. This also applies to other dangerous infectious diseases. We know that there are ebola cases in the world, we know that at the moment there is a COVID-19 crisis. In any case, it is reasonable that such a possibility is that a person cannot simply put dozens or hundreds of people at risk by his or her conduct, so that a considerable number of them are hospitalized or even have to be left alive. All other rules, rights derived from today's laws, it's a law of order, it's an emergency law or the law of prevention and control of communicable diseases. There will be no power to restrict people's rights under this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U835	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U836	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I would like to ask you how much you have also involved environmental experts in the preparation of this draft. Has there been any analysis of what activities and financial costs will result in, for example, the compulsory wearing of masks in the future? What activities should the waste management sector undertake in this regard? Have you also involved representatives of this sector in this debate? This is undoubtedly a very important issue that must be resolved as a whole. I'm sure this is where the Ministry of the Environment needs to be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U837	Thank you very much for this subject and for the broadening of the debate. Undoubtedly, all ministries are thinking along the lines of government when it comes to initiating drafts. Who will do so through a minister who will attend a government meeting, who will participate in the agency, who will examine the draft at an early stage and evaluate the draft. As far as the obligation to wear a mask is concerned, of course, it will continue to be a recommendation and, above all, it will be reasonable, in normal life, to use reusable masks, i.e. not necessarily to buy one-off taxes. One-off masks are relevant in health facilities, are relevant in the care sector and in other places at such higher risk of spreading infection. But elsewhere, it's when you move in public transport or when you work indoors, it's reasonable to use multiple masks, where the environmental cost, the environmental footprint, is not as big as when you use disposables. This recommendation will certainly remain in force. I very much hope, as I said earlier, that, in fact, the need to maintain, introduce and comply with restrictions will gradually decrease due to the inclusion of society in vaccination, as well as seasonal changes. In any case, we are seeing a downward trend, and also in the case of restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U838	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U839	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! I'm sorry first, but the question is, the air is pregnant and there's a lot of fear stories. But what should Olerex's leaders do, for example, when a large part of their collective says that they do not agree with vaccination? They're afraid or they want to investigate. What should I do? A specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U840	Thank you for your question. Certainly a similar dilemma is currently faced by quite a number of employers and employees. I think it makes good sense, in this case, to do information work on the one hand, clarification work. The website vaccinate.ee has a lot of new information, it has been updated, updated, making the page more user-friendly. Similarly, the Agency's website provides the necessary information on the various vaccines, their effects, side effects, any concerns, but especially on the efficacy indicators. Similarly, the employer can organise information days. We ourselves have done days open to the wider public by the Ministry, information events, as well as specific sectors such as education, social affairs, health care. It is precisely to clarify the advantages of vaccination with vaccines. Undoubtedly, there are also possible danger points that need to be pointed out, which symptoms are monitored. But all vaccines authorised in the European Union are safe, effective, reliable in the principle. Of course, you should always carefully read the contraindications that each medicine contains, including vaccines. And in such cases, if a person has a contraindication, you should consult your doctor, your family doctor, and then make a vaccination decision. But most of the population around the world, including Estonia, does not have such contraindications, but it makes sense to vaccinate itself to protect their health. So this is definitely [helpful], I think, organising information days, participating in information events and inviting representatives of the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Board or the Agency. Of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the medical team have also been prepared to actively contribute to the conduct of such briefings in order to respond directly to questions in order to help disprove various concerns, fears that people would be willing to make these decisions with a lighter heart and do so on the basis of greater awareness.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U841	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U842	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm listening to you, and I don't understand. Nearly half of the infections take place today in the workplace, 26% of people have worked sick in the last year. If we are thinking about how much a hundred percent reimbursement of sick days on the first day could be paid only 1.6% of the additional budget was, I think, a very effective measure to solve the problem. I mean, how expensive all the consequences and everything. Please tell me, when the additional budget was drawn up, did you, as Minister of Social Affairs, propose that sick days be compensated for by the first day and 100%, or did you not come with this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U843	Thank you for your question. First of all, I'm going to start with a clarification, not half of the infections at the workplace. In fact, if we look around at the infections, there are two major sectors of this kind. There's an unknown infection site, which could be public transport, any store, maybe someone's visit, including street contact. The second largest sector is the family circle. That makes sense, too. If a person has been infected from somewhere in our society or abroad, he or she is also highly likely to infect his or her family members. And actually, thirdly, there's a 10-15% chance of getting infected at the workplace. According to the week, there may be a slight variation in [the proportion of education]: it is a week or a week of school holidays when the schools were in distance education or a week of contact education. This will lead to a change in the share of education. But in general, it has been of a similar size to [job site infection]. Occupational infection is, of course, important, but it cannot be said to be the one or the only or dominant site of infection. As regards the reimbursement of the sick leave, I have already answered more about the content. My proposal, indeed, was already in the coalition talks and was now in the state budget negotiations to extend this system, which has been agreed with employers and trade unions and which they have taken into account. The Health Insurance Fund, too, can easily use it for workers if it receives the necessary financial support. From day two to day five, the employer would pay the sickness fund from day six. I think this is an important step and an important decision. Compared to the legislation that is normally in force, it provides substantial additional money and support for people to stay home early.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U844	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U845	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. However, I will continue on the same subject, as more than half of the active heartbeats are still workplace hotspots and the subject is at heart. I come to the example brought by my colleague, Mr Sikkut, when he spoke on this subject. It's just like a fine for a person, which is almost 100 euros. In the case of a minimum wage, this is about one fifth of the monthly income. We know quite a lot about these drivers when people not only let the employer know, they don't go to the test at all. That's exactly what they're afraid of for their income. And since you do not continue to support the system offered by the Social Democrats to compensate for 100% and the first day, what alternative motivations do you see people going to test with symptoms and staying home? About the employers, you said that there would be, I don't know, incentives to raise and organize information days and to clarify why this is important. But what do you tell people not to lose a fifth of their monthly income?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U846	Thank you very much. Well, for the first day of compensation, it certainly can't be a fifth of someone's income. If we take the fact that people normally have 20 working days a month, and if one day is not reimbursed and certain days, then five days, six days, ten days, depending on how long the illness lasts, 70% will be reimbursed, then the absence of one day will certainly not make up one fifth. The sickness allowance is generally 70%. But if you add up these different sums, of course it's going to make a considerable difference. I agree with that. As I referred to earlier, the current amendment to the law before you actually improves the situation. We know that there would otherwise be a normal procedure where, from May onwards, the reimbursement of sick leave would only be from the fourth day. The first three days would actually be the employee's own responsibility, the fourth to eight days would be the employer's compensation, starting from the ninth day, the sickness fund would compensate. So it is still an important step towards improvement, an important step towards improving the livelihood of workers. As has been said, EUR 12 million has been earmarked for this in the additional budget. This is also a point that has been negotiated with trade unions and employers. This is a sensible solution precisely so that people have a greater chance and motivation to stay home quickly, and then there would also be a balance between the employer and the health insurance fund's contribution to the reimbursement of sick leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U847	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U848	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Broadly speaking, society can be divided into two disciplines: one is military and the other is civil discipline. Personally, I like to live in a model of civil society, and still in the key to the fact that the civilian society has been subjected to military schipping. One of the elements of military discipline is, in fact, a special situation, a special situation in which the country needs to be managed and managed. If I look at this bill now, I will ask you: has it been considered that if we have a special situation, we will not make permanent legislation, but will we manage this process in a special situation? So that at some point the state, the people can get back to the normal way of life, not create a permanent legal space, in which case it is possible and around which all kinds of myths can be drawn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U849	Thank you very much. Whether or not to impose an emergency situation has indeed been the subject of debate on several occasions, both in the case of the previous government and in the case of the current government. We have had different opinions and views. Certainly, if we see that the virus distribution figures are not slowing down, if we see that this downward trend, which I would now venture to predict in front of the Riigikogu, will not take place here, then the special situation is one possible additional step, which is currently not being implemented in this second wave of crisis. This would, above all, give such a message of mobilisation to society even more than it would legally bring about additional opportunities. At the same time, replacing the law with an emergency situation is, in my opinion, not the right way to go, as these legislative changes are also necessary in future situations like this. We don't know when there's going to be some kind of epidemic spread of the disease again, we don't know how extensive it is. There may be moments where rapid legal clear cooperation between authorities, between authorities and at government level is essential to isolate individual colleges, which do not necessarily require an emergency situation. There must be very strong arguments for the implementation of the emergency situation. However, the amendment of this law also provides an opportunity to prepare for future crises. We know very well that different pandemics have sent mankind. Before that, a colleague of yours spoke about diseases of the past. There have been many in the history of mankind, and we can be sure that COVID-19 will unfortunately not be the last. In this light, however, these legislative changes also give the possibility to be better prepared as a country on subsequent occasions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U850	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U851	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, now you have caused me a great deal of confusion. You speak with great enthusiasm about the indicators and said that the volume of introduction is small. I don't get it. I don't think I'm infected. I'm infected by another person. Do these new strains come from work groups or from families? Where do these new strains come from? I'm an animal farmer, and I'm convinced that if one comes in infected across the border somewhere, soon the whole community will be infected. Please help me understand this mess.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U852	Thank you very much. Indeed, as I referred to earlier, quantitatively, or quantitatively, there is the most widespread domestic distribution. Estonia is the country with the highest viral index in Europe; it is very high compared to our closest neighbours, it is in the Baltic States or in the Nordic countries. In fact, the main focus must be to get a downward trend in national distribution, which is why different rules and measures have been implemented. The second question is indeed with these different strains. The truth is that COVID-19 disease has been introduced in all countries, and so have we. Different strains, too. In the meantime, in the summer the infection rate was in some cases close to zero and there were also surveillance studies where we did not actually find any positive even by random sampling, which showed that there was no more community spread, then in the autumn gradually the virus began to enter Estonia again due to tourist trips and other travels. This is due both to Estonian residents who went abroad and undoubtedly to the residents of other countries who visited our country. In the case of foreigncomers, it is very important that they comply with these same rules, that this is self-testing, that this is self-insulation, namely staying at home, so that they do not carry the infection forward and that their positivity is established as soon as possible if it exists. We will never be able to shut Estonia down in the view of the whole society. On these professional trips, these are family needs just as we know that there are a lot of people in Estonia who work in Finland and for whom we undoubtedly want to guarantee the opportunity to move, to see our family members. Similarly, there are people who have families in other countries. Such blocking of a state border can only be a short-term measure; it will not lead to a long-term solution. However, vaccination is a long-term solution. And as long as people have not yet been widely vaccinated, it is important to test widely, it is important to sequence these strains in order to identify them, it is important to check compliance with these rules so that those arriving from abroad remain test-tested and self-insulation as they arrive until they are convinced that they are not infectious or endangering the health of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U853	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U854	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! A year ago, there was an emergency situation in Estonia, and that day, a year ago, new infections came to my attention. Today was 1554. The difference is over quadruple. There was an emergency. It's not now. And there's an emergency law and there's a § 55, which would give all these possibilities, it wouldn't be necessary to start welding these police sections to this bill right now. What do you think maybe it would be wiser to put in place a special situation, even though I think the time has come. Since there are also these police possibilities in the form of § 55 [to act] emergency situations, there is no point in... Let's just pass this law without these police sides!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U855	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr Metsoja asked the same question. Indeed, the state of emergency is one possible additional step which has not yet been implemented by this government. This certainly cannot be ruled out, but this particular legislative package really does indeed include such a longer-term view, i.e. [what to do] in the initial phase of any other epidemic, where the emergency situation would not yet be established. In the preventive phase, it is also important that such close cooperation between the agencies should work, if necessary, in order to ensure swift and operational response and legal clarity in establishing different rules, it is a temporary limitation of the event authorities, it is the wearing of masks or other infectious safety measures, it is also the introduction of supervision of persons, if necessary, if they knowingly do not comply with the rules and disseminate the infectious disease. This applies both during an emergency, in an emergency and in an emergency situation, in any situation. The current state of emergency would help resolve the so-called acute crisis, but it would not help to achieve legal clarity in the law in the long term and improve cooperation between the various authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U856	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U857	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I think the former Minister of the Interior raised a very important problem here. This virus is not born in Estonia, of course it is brought across the border. The question is, who's gonna bring it in? And if we're talking about the same charter trips that Estonians are going to, then all these countries and their islands in the south, even those Spanish islands to which Estonia organises charters, they all demand that you have 24 or 48 or 72 hours before the negative coronas, otherwise you won't get in at all. So it is not a question of our people bringing it, but of the citizens of other countries who are bringing in these new strains. Why does Estonia still not insist that there is a negative border to enter the coronas? We'll limit the new strains that come in.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U858	Thank you very much. Indeed, the provision of health services in Estonia is generally voluntary, and in very rare cases it is possible to oblige someone to do something. As far as testing is concerned, it is a recommendation, and the alternative really is to remain self-insulation. The vast majority of people who arrive in the country will take this test. As you rightly said, a lot of people do it when they travel, because it is a mandatory prerequisite for getting on an airplane and getting off the ground at all. But we cannot prevent the Estonian people, for example, from returning to their homeland. If a person refuses to take a test at an airport, it is simply not possible under law to oblige him to do so or not to allow him or her to do so. That is also contrary to the Constitution. Then there is the alternative: if a person refuses to take a test, he is self-insulated. It's important that he fill it, follow it. These are the opportunities that we have taken. However, it is rather a question of supervision. In order for people to respect and respect the rules in force, there should also be sufficient control over their compliance. We don't need to make any new rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U859	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U860	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I understand that if we had even announced an emergency situation or an emergency situation that the Fatherland has already repeatedly highlighted here, we would simply not be able to transfer these powers today. And one question is, in fact, that if we have already extended any rights to the police, we will not be able to get them back from there in any way. And more and more people are becoming aware that the solution is an emergency situation. Can you tell us who, in the government by name, opposes the imposition of an emergency situation in Estonia, so that we can once get under this infection indicator and that the police have the powers they need at the moment in order to ensure public order?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U861	Thank you very much. Certainly the point of this amendment to the law is not to add unlimited rights to one administration or another, but rather, as I have pointed out, to enhance cooperation between law enforcement bodies. This is done today in the framework of official support, has been done in a crisis situation. We want to make all of this less bureaucratic, somewhat more effective and thereby contribute to a faster fight against the spread of the virus. The announcement of an emergency situation would provide an opportunity to resolve the current crisis in a really more operational way, especially in terms of probably mobilising society, in a less legal sense. However, the point of this amendment to the law is that, even in the case of the next health emergencies today, we are in fact able to react quickly, operationally and already prevent wider distribution, cooperate with institutions, establish the necessary rules, control their compliance. It would not be possible to achieve all of this at this point in time in the announcement of an emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U862	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U863	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Let's come back now, I'll try to be very brief. Let's just not talk so much about content, but once again about terms. Signe Riisalo just said in the 'First studio' that in nursing homes, the vaccination of workers must become compulsory. I am asking whether or not the compulsory vaccination is a compulsory vaccination. Let's get these things straight. People are just so tired of all this twilight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U864	Thank you very much. I am unable, for obvious reasons, to look at the First Studio at the moment, so I am not exactly familiar with the statements made by the Minister for Social Protection. But when it comes to vaccination, once again: it is a voluntary choice. There are certain cases, certain situations in which an employer may make it a prerequisite for getting a job if it coincides with the logic of the work and the need to act in a particular workplace. For example, I believe that it seems reasonable to all of us that people working in the COVID-19 department should have been vaccinated to protect their health and to reduce the risk of passing the infection on to others, also bringing it to family members and, more broadly, putting themselves and others at risk. This means that it is a 'condition' that the contractor can then [settle] and the employee can choose whether he or she wishes to apply for the department or if he or she wishes to work there, or if he or she agrees with the employer, or if he or she finds another department, to work in a more calm, "infectious' unit. The same question is actually the case with nursing homes. Forced vaccination of care workers is not carried out, and is not carried out. This is certainly not what the Minister for Social Protection has proposed. But in the case of nursing homes, the employer can really assume that the person is vaccinating himself, and that is what the workers are asking for and explaining to them the dangers that are certainly reasonable. Let us look at how many deaths there have been in nursing homes, how many deaths there are in nursing homes: during a certain period, 40 to 50% of deaths actually came from the population of nursing homes. And we often know that, to the detriment of the infection, it was workers who were unable to vaccinate against the disease that inadvertently carried them there. And if the spread of the virus in society is very wide, then inevitably the nursing workers will also be infected, and the virus can also be carried there by loved ones who visit them. In order to mitigate such risks, to prevent such large monsters, to protect human lives, it is undoubtedly reasonable for nursing home workers to vaccinate themselves when they do not have any medical contraindications or other such reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U865	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U866	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good Minister, I will continue on the same subject because my time has run out. It remains on the conscience of the former Minister of Interior that we had the corona virus in the first place, because he did not in due time impose a negative response to the corona test at the border. But the question still remains: why are we not demanding this today? These same Spanish islands demand that all citizens arriving, both their citizens and nationals of other countries, all are made of negative coronas. The certificate must accompany you. Why do we not require this from people from other countries at Tallinn Airport? It is clear that Estonians will not bring it in because they will take a test when they arrive, which has been paid by the health insurance fund. Why do we not require citizens of other countries to have a negative corona test certificate with them if they want to enter Estonia? I do not understand: other countries are doing this, why are we not doing this? After all, this would help to prevent the introduction and spread of new strains.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U867	Thank you! In fact, this 72-hour-old negative test requirement applies in the same way when Estonia comes to the country. This is particularly the case for people coming from outside the European Union. And similarly, the testing obligation is currently in place and, as I referred to earlier, the alternative to testing is to remain self-insulation. But we have to consider that any test never gives a hundred percent guarantee. If a person has taken a test, for example, 72 hours before, this does not mean that he or she cannot become infected while travelling. And as I pointed out, when he arrives in the country, he could still be contagious. Therefore, it is important that he does this test or, alternatively, stay at home. We see that the same countries you are referring to, those who have established rules like Estonia, have not been able by any other country to prevent the movement of the virus between countries from entering the European Union. Inevitably, it reaches islands, reaches smaller countries from larger countries, and no European country can actually declare crossing the pandemic today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U868	The procedure, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U869	[[Remote connection]] I must protest against the false claims made by Imre Sooääre, as if the former Minister of the Interior had not closed the borders in time. Our government closed the borders last April, closed the traffic between Saaremaa, which was then the coronation of the Reform Party. We're closing the southern border, starting with temperature measurements, later with other procedures at the port and airport. So not all of these claims are absolutely true. I will protest and advise the plaintiff to bring himself up to speed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U870	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U871	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. A lot of lead figures have said we're at war with the virus. And indeed, that is the case. It's just right now, looking at this whole procedure, we're starting to dream of a perfect soldier. But, you see, in a war situation, there is no point in dreaming of those we do not have, but in dealing with the regulations that we have. If we start changing regulations on the battlefield, there could be a huge mess. And in the context of this vaccination, I would like to ask you this question: what could these further motivations still be, what do we offer to society? Because it is clear that with vaccination we will live from year to year, it is not a one-off action. How do we motivate and involve people in getting vaccinated next time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U872	Thank you very much. Now, if I'm gonna be honest to the end, I'm not the biggest fan of military terms in the fight against the virus. However, the war is something even more severe, even worse, that means a lack of food, that means a blackout, that is, a very widespread loss of population, that is, mobilisation. In fact, it is undoubtedly a crisis; it is undoubtedly a serious challenge for the population, businesses, local authorities and the state as a whole. But given Estonia's history, it seems to me personally that this fight against the virus compared to wars is then a world war that we are thinking about, or an Estonian war on freedom, which we are thinking about, but it is still a bit different here. As far as legislative changes are concerned in the midst of the crisis, this adjustment and correction has actually had to be done all the time, and we must continue to do so. I'm sure it can't really be capitulated, so you're going to turn the entire arrangement upside down. And neither does the current package; rather, we are simply extending certain measures. From four months to 12 months, I'm thinking sick leave. There are certain forms of cooperation that we are simply making less bureaucratic, this is about improving cooperation between the Health Board, the PBGB and the Alert Centre today. We also specify, in terms of legal clarity, some rules that have been the subject of disputes. We do not introduce new rules that have not yet existed in the law. As far as the vaccination of the population is concerned, we will certainly have more information on how long these antibodies and immunity last, in fact, every month. At the moment, it is really possible for producers only to say those periods that have been confirmed by the studies. In fact, common sense and earlier measurement of anticoronavirus antibodies indicate that antibodies last longer than three months, six months, or even a short period of time. Rather, the need for a booster dose of the population arises when there are certain highly mutated strains that no longer respond to the conventional vaccine. And the second issue, which will be the debate in the second half of the year, is the vaccination of children. We know today that we have several vaccines that are suitable for the 18+ population, we have Pfizer/BioNTech, which is suitable for the 16+ population, but we do not have a suitable vaccine for children. No necessary research has been carried out. We really know, as educators and health professionals say very rightly, that a child is not a small adult. Not everything can be adapted to one, but here it really needs to be thoroughly investigated, risk mitigated, to make sure that this vaccine is safe, reliable and effective for children, too, to ensure that they are protected against COVID-19 disease. Currently vaccinated people have additional opportunities, for example in close contact or when coming from abroad. So they do not have a self-insulation obligation that applies to others. Other specific measures are likely to also affect travel opportunities to other countries in the future. There are still countries that are expected to vaccinate themselves against some specific locally transmitted disease before entering the country. It is often recommended that certain medicines be taken proactively. These risks must certainly be taken into account in the future; these different rules can also be added at European Union level. However, the main argument for vaccination is to protect your life and health and to preserve the health of others. I think it is precisely awareness that vaccination is a sensible, rational choice that is important. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U873	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U874	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In recent weeks, the government has responded to questions concerning border control and border testing that the risk of introduction of the virus across borders is currently low. Therefore, the presence of a negative corona test is not planned to be tested or tested at the border, while in several countries Europe is already starting a third or fourth wave. Are other countries that control their borders in our immediate vicinity doing wrong or is Estonia still doing something wrong? I ask once again: does the government at least take into account the fact that in the near future, we can take control of the situation at the borders, mass testing of the entrants, check for the presence of a negative corona test, and do so until the immunity of the cattle has been achieved in Estonia, so that we can, as a result of the current national restrictions, hopefully live in a normalisation situation in the summer for more than a few weeks? Does the government have border control on the table at all, or does today's government not even discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U875	We have been discussing the issue of those arriving from abroad on several occasions, as I referred to earlier. There is still a requirement for a negative test or on-site testing. True, it can be replaced by self-insulation. And in fact, the tests are being carried out on the entry, it's at the airport, it's at other border crossings. This is not something that is not foreseen in Estonia. On the contrary, attention has been paid to both testing and sequencing, i.e. checking which strains people have entered, which strains circulate. The volume of the sequencing has been gradually increased. As far as summer is concerned, if we want to spend the summer as a free society, and I think that all of us want to, then in fact, the only sustainable measure is vaccination. The COVID-19 disease is subject to all possible restrictions, tests and other measures to prevent it can only be a temporary solution. It is not possible to establish them for years; it is not possible to continue to test and control the population on an ongoing basis. We need to achieve herd immunity, some of the adult population must be vaccinated first. If necessary and safe vaccines are available for children, then children can also be vaccinated, and they can also be vaccinated. This is the way in which we can be more confident in the summer and, in the autumn, we can go much more confidently against possible new waves. I am absolutely convinced that COVID-19 will not disappear from the world this year. Our goal is to do the best in Estonia so that the disease becomes minimal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U876	Imre Sooäär, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U877	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I do have a procedural question. Since the former Minister of the Interior named my name, I have this question. Of course, its action at national level in combating the virus deserves recognition. No one's questioning it. But the fact is that new strains are spreading more and more in Estonia and they are crossing the border for us. They don't just happen here. And where else, if not in the Riigikogu Hall, these matters should be clarified. That's my procedural question: where are these things supposed to clear up? It's not a question of who's to blame. How are we going to get through this? It should actually be a cross-party issue, not blaming anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U878	Thank you. Yeah, well, it was more of an objection or a line that wasn't procedural. But nowhere else than the Riigikogu Hall is the best way to hold this debate, as well as society in general, of course. Valdo Randpere also seems to have a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U879	[[Remote connection]] I really do have a procedure. Martin, I want to help you. You don't have to give people the opportunity to express their views when they point out they were called. There is no negotiating round at this time. There is an answer round now. The minister responds, and whoever they call has nothing to do with it. Nobody gets a reply right from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U880	You're right, there's no reply right. But it was formalized as a procedure, and when the hand is set up, it is not possible for me to see or know what is being asked for. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U881	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Well, good Tanel, you see, you've lured on a slippery path. I didn't mean to ask, I thought I'd let you go tonight, but look, Moonika started, you gave Moonika that standard answer, and it triggered my question. It's still the compulsive vaccination thing. I'm starting right now to say that I'm not really anti-vaccine myself. But I'm pretty strongly against coercive vaccination. Forced vaccination is a question that is like some sort of thing being handled like a cat around a hot porridge. At times, it's like there's only a coercive vaccination if some two security guards grab a person and shove a needle in him. But it really isn't. One particular thing, for example. I ask: if a hospital worker receives a very specific e-mail from the board saying that an unvaccinated hospital worker no longer receives an average salary in case of self-insulation, is it compulsory or is it not compulsory? That kind of thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U882	Thank you. Forced vaccination would indeed be the case if we force or otherwise oblige the person to vaccinate without giving him any other choice, such as repressing him with a fine or in any other way. This is not happening in Estonia. It is understandable that there are some establishments that give preference to the vaccination of the workforce, which is in their own health and in the interests of others, and for which certain benefits are created. For example, in a hospital environment, as I have pointed out before, there may be situations where the hospital decides that people who have vaccinated themselves against COVID-19 and still become ill will become ill with any other disease, for other reasons requiring a sick list, to be reimbursed at a higher rate than the law, for example from day one. The rest of the staff shall be reimbursed in accordance with the law. No one can be reduced, but it is always possible for the employer to offer any additional benefits, additional benefits, if the employer considers it right and necessary. Just as I referred to before, the government has created certain special rights. People who have been vaccinated do not have to remain self-insulated when coming from abroad, nor do they have to do so in close contact. Such rights can be created, but you can't force anyone, you can oblige someone, you can't leave them with any other choice. This will not be done in Estonia and will not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U883	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U884	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'll pick up where my colleagues Andres and Peter started. Either we are living a normal life as we are now, or we have some special legal arrangements. And we know we have four of them: emergency, emergency, emergency and martial law. They are designed to deal with a particular situation, and they are always limited in time, valid from some date to another date. And these are, in fact, the only ways that we have legitimacy so that we can restrict people's constitutional rights and freedoms and impose obligations on them that we otherwise cannot impose on them. I repeat, these are the only ways we can actually do this legitimately. Otherwise, this is not quite the rule of law. I will continue my speech immediately, next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U885	Thank you. Now, if you count this side of the question here, there is a health emergency in Estonia. In fact, in the case of an emergency, it is not necessarily possible to define the beginning and the end of the date. When we introduced an emergency situation in the previous government, there really was a specific date when it started and a concrete end. But an emergency is defined by a curating authority according to the law. For the health sector, it's the Health Board. We are really in a health emergency, and we do not know the end date for this. This depends on when we can control the spread of the virus and see that there is no pandemic spread, there is no longer a threat to overheating or overloading the health system, so that it can no longer perform the necessary tasks to protect human health and life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U886	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U887	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! The Prime Minister has threatened to cancel or cancel the summer. The head of the scientific council also uses harsh words. And then there are a lot of people, I don't know whether there is a legitimate or unfounded fear that we will change the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases and give additional rights to security authorities. There's even the expression that a police state is emerging. I'm asking you to tell me again who we give and what rights we give. Let's take those fuckin' fears down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U888	This specific draft law, as I referred to at the beginning, actually amends five points. This concerns, in particular, sick leaves, an extension of the reimbursement of sick leave, as well as compensation for quarantine with the sick leave. We also specify the competence of the Health Board and the government, the involvement of law enforcement bodies and the harmonisation of certain levels of fines and misdemeanours. The part you're interested in was involving law enforcement. We are actually giving the PBA the opportunity to exercise the powers of the Health Board, in other words, the competences of the Health Board, when it comes to a greater crisis situation, which requires broad cooperation. More detailed arrangements for inclusion shall be laid down by regulation by the Government. The Police and Border Guard Board does not have special rights compared to wider law enforcement. He may also do the same things within the framework of his professional assistance, but he can temporarily exercise the rights granted to the Health Board, such as checking the fulfilment of the obligation to wear a mask or the obligation to remain self-insulated in close contact. The only specific right that I referred to in the answers before is the additional right that comes from the law enforcement authorities, is that when it comes to an infected person who does not follow orders that are not willing to maintain the health of others, for example, moving around in public transport, moving around in public spaces, although we know that he is infected, he is entitled to move to his place of residence or stay. This is when he or she is at risk of life or health and fails to comply with the requirements of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and other surveillance measures have not been effective. Of course, this is an extreme measure, and hopefully it will not be necessary, but we cannot allow a person to knowingly spread COVID-19 disease or ebala or any other very dangerous infectious disease. Figuratively speaking, the state cannot just watch it. Understandably, in order to protect a person's own health as well as the general public's health, it must be ensured that no one is able to pass on the contagious virus to others. All these other points, which have also been dealt with in the media, particularly in social media, I must say that they are already already in place in the various laws, mainly but partly in the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases. We do not grant any special rights, special opportunities to implement any other measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U889	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U890	I will proceed immediately without a formal introduction. That's right, we're in an emergency right now. That is when we should be supplementing the Emergency Act now, if these measures are not sufficient, or when we need more action to declare an emergency situation. Or if we see that the emergency law does not include measures properly, then we should complement it. We should not go down the road to changing the normal situation. After all, this will remain valid for decades, even though these measures are actually suitable for some special legal arrangements. It's my message that let's not do this, it's not a good way forward. I myself support the announcement of an emergency situation when it is necessary. But so simply, under normal circumstances, go to restrict constitutional freedoms and rights and to impose obligations on people, that would not be the right way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U891	In fact, when we look at these legislative changes, we are very much based on the fact that when it really is an epidemic, especially a dangerous infectious disease. Such additional rights and opportunities to involve are particularly valid in certain cases and, of course, the government can introduce this procedure more precisely by means of its regulation. In essence, we are on the same page as you: they are not intended to be implemented under normal circumstances, to act under normal circumstances, but are intended to prevent some specific epidemics, to resolve some specific crises quickly and operationally. For example, the same point as regards the delivery of infectious patients when necessary. This is actually necessary even without the Estonian state being in an emergency or emergency. This is in many ways a preventive measure so that there is no situation where a particular person or group of people carrying a very dangerous infectious disease can infect a very large part of the Estonian population and, in fact, lead to a crisis in the whole country that can be reacted proactively and act in order to protect the health of the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U892	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U893	[[Remote connection]] Minister, Mr. Kiik! I will listen to what you are saying, and you must be commended for the very, very constructive and serious and very wise talk. Just as we have heard this story since the beginning of the pandemic for a year. And the saddest part is that it's beautiful, but there's no action, and the consequences are completely catastrophic. We've never been as crazy as we are now. Speaking of which, you didn't want an emergency last spring. You have also not wanted to take any drastic measures that would be useful. And now we're here: people die every day, thousands get infected every day, and there's no end to it. Minister, would you not like to take political responsibility for this whole area and resign? Obviously, you can't do your job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U894	Thank you very much for your question and also for your comment. In the interests of historical law, it should perhaps be made clear that, when we discussed the state of emergency at government level in spring last year, 12 March in the COVID-19 Government Committee, later on, I supported it in both cases. I supported this both in the Commission's discussions and later in the government. So, please, don't pay to spread a direct lie here. Secondly, as regards the introduction of additional measures, in the second wave I was in fact the first to talk about the need for additional measures. For the sake of historical truth, these [proposals] could also be sought out. In particular, this concerned entertainment establishments, the restrictions on the sale of alcohol at the time, where, fortunately, the Police and Border Guard Board helped to establish these restrictions in certain counties in order to get the hearths under control as soon as possible. If you remember, in August, we had a major concern about the leisure activities of young people and preventing the spread of the virus there. So at the time, I was actually at the beginning, both at the government level and publicly suggesting what would be the fastest way to control the spread of the virus in these places. At government level, we have, of course, had a great many debates and debates. I do not think, but I know, to argue that the introduction of some measures, which have been necessary to prevent the spread of the virus, remained behind me, which is unfortunately wrong. You can't say that. There are, as has been said, plenty of compelling opposite arguments, as well as real facts. That is also the case in the current government. Rather, I have at times been an advocate of even stricter restrictions than a scientific council, especially in February. But the restrictions currently in force are, in my opinion, reasonable; they are, in my opinion, sufficient. We're seeing a drop in the spread of the virus this week. As far as responsibility is concerned, I am responsible every day for controlling the spread of the virus in order to move quickly forward with vaccination of the Estonian population. I am pleased that we are in the third and fourth place in the European Union in terms of speed. And I'm sure there's been a lot of work done here by the previous government. And if we recall the debates and debates that have been held, we must admit that if your home party had decided these things alone, we fear that today we would not be as far away from the vaccination process as we are. It's true, it's a fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U895	Imre Sooäär, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U896	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Unlike the previous speaker, I think that the Minister responsible is doing very well at the moment to answer questions in the chair and is doing his job well. But I have a procedural remark for a very good colleague of the Reform Party, whose name I do not name. In fact, Article 70 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states very clearly: if the person of a member of the Riigikogu or the views contained in his or her speech are affected in another speech, the President of the sitting may authorise this member of the Riigikogu to speak in response. I would point out that I did not mention the name of the previous Minister of the Interior, but he did mention my name, which, according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, gives me the right to speak back, which I have two minutes to do. So, for the sake of the record, I would like to point out that the President of the sitting was not wrong against the Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, but had full authority to authorise such a statement. So let's go on calmly and follow the Home and Working Procedures Act!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U897	Yes, the President was not wrong, but it is not correct to signal the wish for a procedural question, if there is a request for a response. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U898	[[Remote connection]] Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U900	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I would like to support the speech or question of a good colleague, Leo Kunnas. The question is, I don't understand one thing. I don't think the authors of this law understand that really, we have normative documents with which we can solve all these problems and apply them, how to say, pressure measures to get rid of the epidemic once and for all. Or we could really change those laws. The subsequent reversal of the ordinary law is much more complicated than ending the emergency situation. Why do we still want to make a new law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U901	Thank you. As I have already said, I now tend to repeat myself somewhat, because the questions are about the same subject, the goal is that Estonia is prepared for any future crisis, future epidemics. We must be able to fend them off in the bud, solve them in the bud, without necessarily declaring an emergency situation. By amending the laws, of course, we are thinking about the current COVID-19 crisis, but not only. We are also thinking about future pandemics, future health challenges, for which we today do not know exactly when they will arrive, the extent to which they will arrive, the form in which they will come. But we know they're coming, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U902	Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U903	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. In reply to Imre Sooääre that, no, this section does not give the opportunity to speak at any time when the name of a member of the Riigikogu has been mentioned. If you read the executive publication, [we can see that] it only concerns those cases when the identity of the member of the Riigikogu or the views contained in his speech have been mentioned in the negotiations that have not yet begun in this draft. Then there will indeed be an opportunity to respond within two minutes. Both Mart Helme's procedural question and Imre Sooääre's procedural question were not really procedural questions. However, it is likely that the chair could not suspend them. But I would, ladies and gentlemen, try to discuss the matter and sort out these relationships in a different way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U904	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U905	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, Thank you so much for your long and thorough answers to the questions. In the same draft discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs, both large companies and representative organisations of small businesses considered that the actual crisis measure would still be if the state were to bear the costs through the Health Insurance Fund and thus solve the health and economic crisis. It is now a situation in which we jointly take out loans in the interests of the people of Estonia, but different municipalities can support people who have become unemployed, either in the case of opportunities or in the case of certain priorities. In the city of Tallinn, the Centre Party as a social partner is a completely different Centre Party than it is in the government. Why is it that the loan taken together is used in very different ways and depends on the possibilities of the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U906	Thank you very much for your question. We are actually looking at the extra budget made during the previous government and during the current government, we are also looking at the 2021 budget, we are looking at the European Union's resources. A great deal of emphasis has been placed on the health sector, the work sector, the preservation of people's jobs and the provision of employment services, of course also covering the costs of managing the current crisis in COVID-19. It is also related to testing, vaccination, COVID-19 department work, primary level, medicines, medical devices. There is a very comprehensive list that has been supported by both the current and the previous governments. I hope that all the next governments will do the same if this pandemic persists for a long time in the world. As far as Tallinn and other local authorities are concerned, within the limits of their competence, municipalities can support the prevention of the spread of the virus and support people in dealing with it, both through social measures and health measures, as well as in the area of the labour market. I very much appreciate the local governments that do this. In the case of Tallinn, it is certainly very welcome that the city has taken such an initiative. With regard to compensation for the first day, when Mayor Mikhail Kõlvart and I talked about this, I naturally supported this initiative, the proposal. This gives such a good signal that it is meant to mean that not only does the state contribute through the state budget by putting 12 million more sick days in the sickness fund, but also the local authorities think about how they can contribute to the health of their population. I very much hope that other municipalities will follow this good example, of course, on the basis of their budgetary opportunities and priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U907	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U908	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Minister, I'll pick up where Leo Kunna left off. Doesn't it seem to you that there are certain risks here that we are raising the powers of the authorities in a normal situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U909	Thank you. My trust in the Estonian law enforcement authorities is enormous and [faith] the Estonian rule of law is extremely strong. I am convinced that the current government, future governments, Riigikogu, law enforcement agencies and law enforcement bodies, all work to ensure that the rule of law is respected, respected, enforced in times of emergency, emergency and normal circumstances. And in this view, the creation of a legislative opportunity for better cooperation between law enforcement bodies and for combating various epidemics is, in my opinion, reasonable. Here, I'd rather see the pros, see the odds, not the risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U910	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U911	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have such a specific question: does the fine to be paid for not wearing a mask under this bill apply even if a person has forgotten the mask at home and instead puts a scarf on his face?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U912	In fact, this specific draft law creates this framework, which is an opportunity to introduce a very clear requirement for wearing a mask. The obligation to cover the mouth and nose in Estonia is also imposed by the government's order. But there have really been legal disputes and debate as to whether the current law would allow specifically to say that it must be either a mask or a visor, or a somewhat more concrete and somewhat more effective measure to prevent the spread of the virus. By adopting this law, Parliament does not impose a national or local obligation to wear a mask. This possibility will be at the government level in the future, as is currently the case at the government level with the obligation to cover the mouth and nose. Everything about sanctions and fines must then be agreed at government level, clearly recorded in which situations the mask is compulsory, in which situations it is a visor, in which circumstances it is not to be borne and which will be specific sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U913	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U914	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Minister, for this answer. So that there is no misconception: I also very much recognise the city of Tallinn. And I think that if Mikhail Kõlvart were the Minister of Health and Labour, the first day of sickness benefit would have been paid throughout the country. I just have a question you didn't really answer. Does a loan taken jointly as a state contribution have to depend on the place of residence, although after the entire nation together repays the loan in some form of taxes or something else, but now the compensation depends on the capacity of the local government? And believe me, local governments have very different capacities in Estonia. There is no doubt a great deal of recognition for Tallinn, but do you think it is fair and fair that the possibility of receiving support on this first day depends on the place of residence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U915	Thank you very much. In fact, if we look more broadly at local authorities and the grants they provide, they are different. There are public subsidies for which rates are foreseen for payments through the state budget. For example, there is income support, various family benefits, a pension that can also be considered to a certain extent, by paying the person back his or her social security contributions, which he or she has paid in the course of his or her life's work. However, there are also a variety of such additional measures, it is a kindergarten place fee, it is linked in this case to a temporary, crisis-time measure, if there is additional support for sickness days in particular. There are opportunities, such differences are also made by local authorities, within the limits of their budgetary possibilities, as well as within the limits of the amounts available from the state budget and additional budgets. Inevitably, receiving these services and benefits depends on the decisions of the local government and the place where the person lives. This is the case with so-called 'over-the-counter' for a very large number of grants. In principle, I agree that the more we can set certain minimum standards, the more uniform in this view, the better. But the local government must retain the right to make further decisions. In turn, residents must have the right to assess whether or not to support these choices. Local elections and other ways of giving feedback on what is thought to be the budget [for use] of decisions taken by the city authorities or the local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U916	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U917	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, when you answered my question, you said that we still have this negative corona test requirement. Is it even, and to what extent is it actually controlled at the border, at airports, at ports? And are you aware that there should also be a mandatory corona testing of all arrivals at the airport today, according to recent information in Helsinki?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U918	Thank you very much. Of course they're checking. In fact, this work is also done today by the Health Board, the Police and Border Guard Board in cooperation with Tallinn Airport, for example, in the same way in ports. People have the right and opportunity to show a specific negative test certificate or have themselves tested on the spot, and if they do not agree to do so, if they opt out of it, it is the responsibility of the government to remain isolated, in accordance with the order of the government. I am also very familiar with what is happening in Finland. There has been very close contact with a Finnish colleague during this crisis. And indeed, the Finnish state has gone on to take more and more serious measures because they want to keep their epidemiological situation as good as possible. It is also understandable that the Finnish state has been quite successful throughout the COVID-19 crisis. In any case, they must be commended for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U919	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U920	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good minister! Do you still not feel that it is a little disproportionate that the fine that a person has to pay for the breach of masks is much higher than, for example, the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-24_U921	Thank you. As I referred to earlier, it is only after the adoption of the draft law that it becomes clear whether the obligation to wear masks will be imposed at all. At the moment, there is an obligation to cover the nose and mouth that a person can perform in different ways. In the future, it will be possible to regulate it somewhat more precisely in order to avoid possible litigation. In the interests of legal clarity, it must be clear from the outset that certain preventive measures on infection safety can be imposed by a government order, even in the case of wearing a mask and a visor. What will be the obligations, what will be the sanctions in the event of an infringement, all this will be clear from government decisions, of course within the legislative framework. You referred to the maximum fine rate, which certainly may not be the norm. As I pointed out, the obligation to wear masks as such by adopting a specific law is not automatically imposed.
