ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a question about § 281 (2) of the draft law amending the State Assets Act. [Here is said to be:] The state software within the meaning of this Act is a computer program in respect of which the property rights of the author are wholly or partly owned by the State. I am interested in this "partly belonging to the state" right now. This means that the other part does not belong to the State. At the same time, the Copyright Act says that the right to authorship is inalienable. How does this partial property right correlate with the person who created the [computer program] but to whom it does not confer any proprietary rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U3	Thank you for your question. A really interesting detail, but copyrights have been paid with royalties either way. So once they're acquired, they're available, and there's no problem here, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U4	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U5	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I'd like to ask you how the authentication is going to take place. Is a personal identification number needed at first level or is there another solution? I'll just give you an example. At this point, if you want to sign in to Elisa's self-service office, you need to enter your personal identification code and then PIN-1, which is completely absurd, because every hacker is able to put this first-level login screen on your computer screen. Is it also going to be that you give your social security number and PIN-1 on unsafe ground as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U6	Thank you for your question. I'm really not so technically good at information technology. The Minister of State Administration is defending this bill here because he is the administrator of the Treasury Act. This would be a question perhaps more for specialists at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. But as I said, the code repository page can find the software and digital solutions that are freely usable, and as far as I know, there is no need to log in.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U7	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U8	Thank you. First of all, to Mr Grünthal, this issue of copyright has actually been quite well spelled out in the explanatory memorandum of the draft, both in terms of partial ownership of rights by the State and in terms of the personal rights of the author, which, of course, still retains the right of the author to exercise. If, for example, the author does not wish to be named as the author when the software is introduced, he shall retain the right not to allow it. However, perhaps an important question for the Minister in the interest of the protocol is that this software is made available globally. We are in no way restricting its use so that only Estonian companies can use the software in Estonian codeware. It can also be used by Latvian companies or companies from other continents, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U9	It is another matter of a more technical nature, but, as far as I am concerned, it is not restricted. The software is completely publicly available on the same network and, as far as I know, there are no other restrictive conditions. I was only talking about the restrictive conditions for putting up this, for which there is a separate set of rules that the sovereign, if he wants to put up this software, must certainly follow. I also mentioned these basic reasons why perhaps no digital property can be made freely available. And one such thing is that there is a question here of whether these state ministries are also interested in doing so, that, after all, it is the decision of the governor of state property. But there's another side. If someone requests, for example, the release of such digital assets from an institution or ministry, then the sovereign must say whether they can do so or whether they cannot do so under any circumstances. So this is an opportunity for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U10	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Now, the story is that a good colleague here, Raimond Kaljulaid, has confused me a little bit, and since you are the author of the bill, maybe you can help out. [The question is] still in the very property rights of the same parties, which do not belong to the State, i.e. they belong to anyone else. How can this person still turn those author's property rights, for which he has the basis under copyright law, into his own benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U12	Thank you for your question. I really don't really know how to answer the legal details. It is likely that the use of this property will be governed by some kind of contract if the property is owned by the State and, consequently, that contract will also give rise to those rights, how it will or will not be disclosed. However, it is clear here [in the letter] that it is possible that the property that may be granted for free is not part of the State. But I believe that if there are several parties to this property, everyone must agree that it can be displayed under the appropriate conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U13	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U14	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, Only recently was there a debate on data in the Committee on the Environment. It was about the forest register. Could this bill have something to do with this? There was a strong discussion about whether the forest register data was public data. At the same time, they have been paid off by private individuals, but this database is publicly available, so it is as if the availability of this database should be restricted. Could this draft, in the form of amendments, be resolved in any way during the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U15	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, we're talking source codes when we're talking about registers or digital assets. They are not related to data. So if there is a source code for a digital asset, then in this source code that allows the property to be used, there is no data inside. The subject of data management and registers are completely separate operas, which I could talk about for a long time. Trying to clean them up sometime. This is one of the activities of the state reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U16	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. And now I'm going to ask Kristen Michal, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to sit here as a chair waitress. Please! What about Raimond Kaljulaid? Yeah, sorry, I had already come to the next draft. Raimond Kaljulaid! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U17	Thank you, Mr President. There's no reason to apologize. It's late, and we've all come to this point together. That makes sense. The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 23 February. The draft was presented to the members of the Commission by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, and the civil servants accompanying him. Members of the Commission also had questions about the content of this draft. Kristen Michal, for example, wondered how the software was still shared between public authorities. Of course it has been done, but there has been no such common practice and a set of rules as to how to do it so far. The purpose of this draft is, among other things, to create [the rulebook] so that public authorities can easily share the software by agreeing on it. The question of possible security threats in connection with the opening of software codes was also raised. In response, it was clarified that the draft provides that if the granting of state software to the public for free would have a detrimental effect on the State, this would not be the case. Account shall be taken, inter alia, of the cyber security risk inherent in the provision of national software to the public, the specificities of the use of national software and the potential threat to public policy and national security arising from the provision of such software. It is also thought later that there may have to be such an additional filter between before the code goes up into the code repository. There was an interest in whether this bill would solve the problems of reconciling different local government programmes in any way. In response, it was said that, yes, rather, this bill provides the basis for one sovereign asset manager to provide another sovereign asset manager with the software that it has to manage, without any greater bureaucracy, and it also creates the potential to avoid such double procurement situations. There was also an interest in the fact that since this software was put into service in a decision-making and voluntary way, how it would work in practice and who today has the most national software. There were also questions about the financing of the code repository. In principle, this law creates the possibility of making software available to the public, and each asset manager himself must look at and assess which of them is possible and what it is intended to make publicly available. It is likely to begin in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as the initiative has come from there. As regards the financing of the code repository, the aim is to try to make this financing model more sustainable in the future. However, this draft does not explicitly provide that software must always be published in code stores. The institution may also publish it on its website, for example, or publish a code repository and place a reference to it on its website. At the Commission meeting, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 10 March, and to propose that the first reading be closed. Thank you for your attention and for your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U18	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. The Governing Commission has proposed... And you see, late time must be working, I forgot the negotiations. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, want to negotiate? But it doesn't look like it is. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 308 be completed. I will set the deadline of 25 March at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U19	We will go to today's 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with it, the amendment of other laws. I'm asking for Jaak Aabi, Minister of State Administration, as a chair waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the competition law initiated by the government and, in this connection, to the amendment of other laws. I am not going to open all the amendments proposed by the bill in these details. The members of the Riigikogu, as well as the committee, have been familiar with them, but here I mention the most important of these [amendments]. Let us start with the main objectives of the draft. The main objective of the draft is to provide a clear national legal basis for the recovery of unlawful and misused State aid in a situation where neither the European Commission nor the Court of Justice of the European Union has taken such a decision. It is important to note here that, even now, a Member State has an obligation to recover illegal State aid on its own initiative, but there are no uniform rules on how to do so. So far, recovery procedures have been based on the regulations laid down in sectoral laws, which have proved inadequate in practice. As a result, the amendment ensures that the recovery of unlawful State aid is based on a single legal act for all grantors of State aid, i.e. the competition law, and also regulates the time limit for the recovery procedure, as well as the limitation period. The draft also provides for the basis for calculating the interest to be recovered. The State aid to be recovered, together with interest, must be recovered without delay, but no later than four months from the date of receipt of the recovery. In exceptional and justified cases, the grantor of State aid may extend the repayment period. The State aid grantor has the right to recover unlawful or misused State aid within a period of 10 years. The deadline shall apply from the date on which unlawful or misused State aid was granted to the recipient of the aid, either as individual aid or under an aid scheme. Recovery of unlawful or misused State aid is an enforceable document within the meaning of Article 2 (1) (21) of the Code of Enforcement Procedure. The amendments should allow for a uniform recovery procedure in the event of the detection of domestic unlawful and misused State aid and in accordance with the rules applicable to the European Commission procedure. In addition, this draft makes some further changes to the competition law of a more precise nature, which improves legal clarity. According to them, the law explicitly states that where State aid covered by a de minimis or block exemption is granted under an aid scheme, the aid scheme must refer to the relevant European Commission Regulation. The aid scheme must also set out the relevant general principles in order to ensure transparency and legal clarity in the granting of the aid. The draft law also provides a terminology specification concerning the replacement of the reference to the Court of Justice by a reference to the Court of Justice of the European Union. On the proposal of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Unemployment Insurance Fund, an amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act has also been included in the draft following the coordination round, complementing the law by the possibility of granting State aid to an undertaking in difficulty by way of derogation. The amendment is driven by the latest amendments to the General Block Exemption Regulation adopted by the European Commission on 2 July 2020 allowing the granting of block exempted State aid to undertakings which were not in difficulty on 31 December 2019 in relation to the outbreak of the COVID-19, but which were in difficulty between 1 January 2020 and 30 June 2021. However, given the current mitigation of State aid rules, this date may not yet be final. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U21	Thank you. You have questions too. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You're in this bill... What's the paragraph again? I think it was § 42 of the [Competition Act]. Yes! This draft states that [you would like to supplement this section with a new paragraph]: just as the State aid grantor has the right to recover unlawful or misused State aid within a period of 10 years. This means that the claim will expire within 10 years. My question is this: is this limitation period also compatible with the limitation periods provided for in the General Part of the Civil Code Act? There are special cases of obsolescence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U23	Thank you for your question. As far as I am concerned, this ten-year period is due to the regulations of the European Commission and the European Court of Justice, which set the same deadline. If, for example, the European Commission considers that State aid has been misused, the exact same time limit, ten years during which it can be challenged, applies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U24	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U25	Thank you! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! For the sake of clarity, I have one such question that we happen from time to time that there are some rules before the application is made and then, when the application is made, the money is in place, before the completion or before the end of the control period, there are some other rules. The rules have changed and are independent of the applicant. Can State aid be recovered even if it is not the result of an error on the part of the recipient of the State aid itself, but of an error on the part of the provider of the State aid or of any changes made in Europe? Is this bill designed for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U26	Thank you for your question. As far as I am concerned, the principle that, if an application is made, State aid is granted in accordance with the rules in force so far. And when the rules are changed, they already apply to new State aid applications.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U27	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have just said a very interesting sentence to me that this limitation period is the result of the European Union directive, I think it was, isn't it? And now I see a very interesting precedent as to how our laws gradually lose any effect, as the European Union directive seems to prevail. Please tell me how you understand this now, or how you interpret it, that Estonian laws, as such, no longer work at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U29	Thank you for your question. I can only say that setting such a limitation period is analogous to the limitation period in force when the aid is recovered on the basis of a decision of the Commission or the Court of Justice. Since I'm not a lawyer, I can't compare it to civil law and our laws, but I don't think he's against it. But I agree to clarify this in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U30	Thank you. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question may also have a little to do with the question of Mr Aart. After all, it may be that the provider of State aid is wrong to some of the rules, for example, the incorrect State aid exemption Article and, consequently, the wrong proportion of the amount of State aid that can be granted to one or the other undertaking, and that recipient of State aid is, as a matter of fact, guilty and obliged to recover the State aid from it. What responsibility does the provider of State aid have in this case? Is it possible to implement the State Liability Act here if the recipient of State aid has done nothing wrong, has asked for support, has received support, but has misbehaved or misplaced State aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U32	Thank you for your question. If we are talking about the fact that the State aid provider himself has been wrong, then surely the State aid provider also has a responsibility. In practice, this actually means that if we have some sort of rounds announced and there has been some kind of error with some rules, which is why State aid has been granted incorrectly, then, of course, of course, such rounds will usually be cancelled and new rounds will be announced. And if these wrong rules have caused harm to anyone, then, as far as I know, under the law, it must be compensated to this extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U33	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U34	Thank you. Jaak, as always, such a professional mature presentation. My question concerns the practice of implementing State aid. And the question is this: for which legal persons and for what amount has the Republic of Estonia compensated from the state budget for the illegal state aid that these legal persons had to pay back to the state budget? And does the Government of the Republic of Estonia also intend to compensate additional illegal state aid in the form of a refund to legal persons?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U35	Thank you for your question. I should probably be more specific, Urmas, these details. With regard to the oral question, I could not quite confirm that point. But I'm willing to answer you in writing. As far as I know, it's a schematic, so let's say... I understand that the question was that, if the European Commission has intervened in the infringement or decided that State aid has been misused or that State aid has been wrongly granted, one of the places to be addressed is, of course, the European Court of Justice. There have also been some arguing about it, and if it is true, compensation will be asked accordingly. But I really promise that I will clarify this and try to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U36	Urmas Reinsalu, please! [[Silence.]] I'm sorry, we can't hear you. I can't hear you. (From the hall: "Great, mike! ") Urmas, we cannot hear! There's a picture, but there's no voice. (On the floor: "The darkness happens all the time. No, I know, yeah, but he didn't ask a question before. ") Still can't hear. Perhaps we will take one of Kalle Grünthal's procedural questions between us and hope that Urmas Reinsalu will regain the connection. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U37	Thank you, Mr President. The deficit resulting from § 891 (3) of the Home and Working Procedures Act has now been revealed: a member of the Riigikogu cannot ask a question. I don't think we should go any further until this obstacle is removed. I'm not going to bring these paragraphs out again, there's been a lot of talk about this. I ask the President of the Riigikogu to take a five-minute break so that the right of a member of the Riigikogu to ask questions can be guaranteed without interference.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U38	Yes, today we have really been very busy with these connection problems. I hope Reinsalu's connection will be restored, but in the meantime, I'll have Tarmo Kruusimägi asked. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U39	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! The way it used to be, a lot of state aid was written just in the chimneys when it was wanted back. Is it now to some extent related to CO2 emissions that can no longer be written in the chimneys?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U40	In fact, these figures that are presented here are... Thanks for the question, of course! ... honestly show what has been recovered. Examples of EAS are also given here, for example over 1500 State aid decisions were taken in 2017/2019, but no cases of misuse of State aid were found. They have always occurred in different areas, but they have a very low share, so both our state aid providers and beneficiaries of State aid have actually been very good in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U41	In the meantime, let's see if Urmas Reinsalu's connection has recovered. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U42	My question was not whether decisions have been taken in the European Commission or whether the European Court of Justice has taken any decisions, but my question was that, if the European institutions have taken a decision on illegal State aid, in such a case, the state budget of the Republic of Estonia has been compensated for by some legal person, in a situation where illegal State aid has to be returned to the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U43	I understand that the question is that if a recipient of State aid has been asked by the European Commission through the European Court of Justice or the European Commission itself has asked for something, then in such cases, as far as I know, the Estonian state has not compensated for it and unfortunately, according to the law, it cannot be compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U44	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U45	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Can you tell me if this bill has now minimized the possibilities of perhaps starting such a scheme, knowing that only ten years will it be [the deadline for recovery]? Let's look at the projects of the Ülemiste intersection [project] or our small ports, all of which will soon be able to breathe lightly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U46	Thank you for your question. As I have pointed out, I have many numbers, in fact there have been relatively few misuses of [State aid] in Estonia. However, given that there are tens of thousands of institutions and entities sharing State aid, and there are tens of thousands of decisions, these are very few cases where State aid has been recovered. As far as I know, there have been only two cases involving Estonia in the European Commission when the European Commission has recovered State aid. On the other hand, I cannot say that there are so many misuses. And as far as the deadlines are concerned, I think it will speed up such processes. If the State aid authority itself detects an infringement, it shall have a single rule to that end. There have also been regulations in these sectoral laws, according to which the grantor of state aid must start to demand it back in a mandatory manner, but it is not so clearly laid down in different areas in Estonia yet, and that is why it is introduced into competition law. If such a fact is found that State aid has been misused, it must inevitably be recovered within four months. There are only exceptional cases, e.g. where the beneficiary is bankrupt or in liquidation and it is therefore not possible to recover [the State aid] immediately. But then the state will put in place a kind of mechanism to protect its rights and get it back in the process. These are pretty fast processes. However, it may be that [unification] makes the case unambiguous for both State aid providers and beneficiaries of State aid, if the rules are the same in all sectors. In fact, this obligation is also due to this, too, to the fact that we do not have it in the regulations of the European Union and in the directives [defined as obligation, that] somewhere, the Court of Justice has said that it is also an obligation, to the provider of State aid, that obligation. So that's why it's actually spreading to everyone right now. But for this to be unambiguously understood, it must also be written into Estonian law in an unambiguously understandable way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U47	Thank you, good minister. No more questions for you. The Commission's rapporteur is Kristen Michal, Chair of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Minister Jaak Aab described the most important. I will first read out the procedural decisions. On 23 February the Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda (6 votes for, 0 against and 1 abstention) and to propose that the first reading be closed (6 votes for, 0 against and 1 abstention). This draft was also the subject of the same debate within the Commission. In this draft, as the Minister for Public Administration has already described, there are two key issues: firstly, how the State can, if it considers that illegal State aid has been granted, recover it, and secondly, that it is also possible for undertakings in economic difficulties in this corona crisis to receive labour market services and subsidies. So these are more important issues, but the debate was also on the subject of what would happen if the Estonian state were to reclaim [illegal state aid], having found that something had been unlawfully given, for example, the Commission has relaxed some rules somewhere. The officials of the Ministry found that it would eventually be settled in court. I'm sure he'll settle in court, but I think we need to describe what will happen in this case and correct the explanatory statement in that regard. In general, this was perhaps the most important debate. There were also various technical debates on the time frame. As the Minister has already mentioned, this time frame, originally described by the Commission in order to help firms in difficulty, is likely to extend from 31 December 2019 to the end of this year, i.e. 31 December 2021, with today's knowledge. Everything depends on this crisis. This was a brief summary of this draft. I think this is an interesting and undoubtedly necessary draft, and I hope that the hall will support the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U49	Thank you. Dear waitress, the members of the Riigikogu have no questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 325 be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 25 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U50	We are going to the 12th item on the agenda today, and this is the first reading of the Bill of Amendment to § 11 of the Law on Disease Control initiated by Riigikogu members Andrei Korobeinik, Erki Savisaare, Marko Šorini, Siret Kotka, Martin Repinski, Helmen Küti, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, Raimond Kaljulaid, Natalia Malleuse, Jaanus Karilaidi, Tõnis Möldri, Oudekki Loone, Andres Metsoja, Heidy Purga, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Kaido Höööölson, Dmitri Dmitritrijev, Paul Puustusmaa and Heljo Pikhof. I would like to ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress here. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, last year, we launched a bill with about a few dozen parliamentarians for the creation of a national pet register. The current law obliges municipalities to keep records of pet animals, and so they do. The result is that there are a hundred registers in Estonia, some are larger, some are smaller, some are specific, for example, only for dogs. Some of them are just on paper and they could be a notebook somewhere in the parish house, or maybe an Excel file on some computer. The institution of the Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly drawn the Government of the Republic's attention to the fact that such a duty is burdensome on the one hand and meaningless on the other. The Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly proposed the creation of a single register, which facilitates the life of local governments and makes it easier to find a lost pet who can freely cross the border of one local government and may happen that another local government register he does not have. The Government of the Republic has not taken the shipment, and it has also made a rather negative assessment of this draft. Obviously, one reason is that the state is not quite sure that it will be able to create such a very effective register, but this particular draft does not assume that this must necessarily be the responsibility of the state. It is possible, and quite likely, that one of the larger existing [registers] will be suitable for this register, and in that case the public procurement will reveal which more precisely. I certainly stress that the autonomy of local governments has not been undermined here in any way, because every municipality still has the competence to create pet regulation. I, for example, from Pärnu's experience, can say that we update it every few years. And every municipality, almost 80 municipalities in Estonia, do so. If that makes sense, there is another question, but this particular law does not change this situation. So in this difficult time, it is a positive initiative that wins the country, local authorities, pet owners and certainly pets themselves. So I very much hope that this initiative will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U52	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U53	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Am I right to understand that if such a pet register comes, it will be paid by the taxpayer, regardless of whether the taxpayer himself has a pet or not? Or would it make more sense to introduce a pet tax that is quite possible and real? Perhaps a person with a dog and cat allergy would feel somewhat touched if he had to pay for the pet register now. In this case, could his advantage be that if he takes a medical certificate that he has an allergy to, for example, cat and dog, his tax money would not be used to create this register?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U54	Thank you. That's a point, I think, very appropriate for a time like this. I do not think that this principle will change with this particular bill. Even now, every Estonian citizen pays for keeping registers indirectly, the difference is only that he pays for several registers, there are a hundred of them. In the future, we're talking about a register. This actually provides considerable savings for taxpayers' money. Second, of course, what can be compared to, or how can you appreciate that feeling when your missing dog is found and handed over to you? This, I think, is more expensive than the money, and that is what we will allow, of course, if we can survive all three readings. But whether or not pet tax is necessary in Estonia is another debate. This bill does not propose a tax on cats or dogs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U55	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U56	Good manager! Good waitress! Everything is great, but this obligation was imposed on municipalities a long time ago, 15 years or more ago, but half of [municipal governments], as far as I know, have not begun to fulfil this obligation, in the case of cats [complys] a third of the municipalities. This [situation] is very different, in some municipalities it is mandatory to chip in Tallinn for six years and in some other places, but in many places it has not been very far. But the real question is, everything is going to fall back on money. How much does it cost to set up such a national register and how much does it cost to maintain it [annually]? I have here, for one of the smaller registers, such that [create] EUR 650000 and annual maintenance of EUR 200000. Open up a little bit of the background on how much this fun is gonna cost if we go on with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U57	Thank you. First of all, this first part. Indeed, these rules differ from one municipality to another. In Pärnu, for example, we made chip mandatory last year, before it was not mandatory. But the obligation to keep records of pets exists in any case and the municipalities probably still perform it somehow. Some of them, for example, hold a notebook where [an resident of a municipality] can be recorded as having, for example, a cat at home. Very many people, of course, do not do this, but at least the municipalities have fulfilled their obligation. Now, creating a register. There may not have to be a new register, because today there are three major registers in Estonia, each using more than ten municipalities. If one of these registers is selected, its use is likely to become more advantageous in the sense that a particular municipality has to pay less than it has paid so far. Now, there is no current experience, but one of these registers was set up with state funding and it cost me a year to make a mistake, but I think it was definitely at the beginning of the century, it could have been 30,000 kroons in 2004, which is about 2,000 euros. There is probably no register for this kind of money today, but there will certainly not be hundreds of thousands of [registry] maintenance per year. It is still a very modest IT project. In this sense, of course, I share some scepticism that in recent years the government orders of ministries have not been very exemplary, at least in the IT field. But I hope that this competence will continue to grow, that 15 years of unfinished work will be done, and that in the end, everyone will save money. We are certainly not talking here about annual maintenance costs of EUR 250000, rather it remains what it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U58	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U59	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, You mentioned that there are currently a hundred different animal registers in Estonia and we can only imagine how sweet a mouthful is to create a new single register for this registrar. It's like winning the lottery. I don't know who these three major registers you mentioned belong to, but I'm using a web page like petbook.ee for our family dog that contains the number of the animal's smart card, the owners, the contact details, his medical history, medical history, including bills. Now, if there's a new register, frankly, I don't have any motivation to register my animal anywhere. I don't see any need. I don't understand what kind of problem you're solving with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U60	Thank you. I'm sorry, I don't know what local government citizen you are, but it's very likely your animal is registered somewhere else. The chip usually only has a number, i.e. that kind of ID, and this information is in the database. Now, this information can be handled in different ways. Nowadays, if you want to use a service such as that described by you, this information is usually simply duplicated. In other words, your information is in a service that is probably used by a veterinary clinic, and at the same time it is in another register or, for example, in an Excel file or in a booklet or somewhere else. If we had a common national register, such services could use open data to take information from the database of this national register, if you allow it, and that will also solve the problem of creating new services. Otherwise, you simply have to copy the data and, if you intend to use another service for the same dog, you will most likely simply make a new account there and put all the data in it manually. But this should not be done, certainly not in 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U61	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U62	Thank you. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U63	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U64	Thank you. Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! I have two favorites at home, two dogs, and I have them registered nicely in this local pet register by a vet. But I wanted to ask you that you mentioned earlier that the state would win. Why don't you elaborate and explain to me how the state's gonna win this? The state will have to pay additional sums to develop this unified system everywhere in Estonia. However, you are saying that these sums are small, but in the future we know that we are going to... [[The connection's breaking up.]] All this... to sustain it, but wins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U65	Thank you. The question was how the state will win. The country is me and you and all of us here, and we all pay for a hundred existing registers, and it doesn't make much sense because, as a rule, their only role is to comply with the law. There is no practical need for these registers, because no one can use them for the purposes for which the registry is used elsewhere in the world, for example in the case of finding a pet [to obtain information on origin and] to store additional information about their pets, including their medical history, invoices, etc. This option arises when we have a common register, and it also reduces the administrative burden on municipalities. The municipality is once again part of our country. If we do not confront the government and the state, then it is actually the case that if one party saves money, then everyone will win. Unfortunately, I did not hear that last part of the question, but I think that in general the victory is that we will simply pay less in the future. If the sum of the amounts paid by the municipalities for the registers over the last 15 years were to be calculated, these would certainly be lower in the case of a single register.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U66	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have said here about this law that the purpose of the draft is to establish a regulation that provides the basis for obliging all local authorities to use a national online pet register, which is managed by the state. The problem is that your bill is unconstitutional. The point is that there is probably no dispute as to whether all the characters who are entered in the pet register are in the administrative territory of the local government. § 154 of the Constitution states: "All matters of local life are decided and organised by local authorities. " This is the basis for rejecting this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U68	Thank you. We are now on Tallinn territory, but this does not mean that all aspects of our life are regulated by the Local Government Act. There are other laws. Now, the word "obliged" in this context only means that the local government is using this register, not any other register, but that does not mean that if, for example, you have a dog or you have a cat, I do not know exactly, you have to register this pet in that register. If your municipality does not oblige you to do so, and I have mentioned in the past that this bill will not be amended, municipalities may choose for themselves which obligations they impose in this context [the owner of the animal], whether chipping is mandatory, whether registration of a particular pet species is mandatory, etc., then your pet may not enter the register. However, if a local government uses a register, yes, after the adoption of this law, it must use this particular single register, not keep, for example, a booklet or an Excel file. Well, I can, but purely for my own entertainment purposes, not for the sake of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U69	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U70	Thank you, Mr President. He really does, doesn't he, that the register creates a pre-requisite for a chip? The chip is a relatively irrational activity if this chip cannot be identified from the register, especially in a situation where an animal has gotten out of its territory. And indeed, there begins the obligation of the local government to deal with these homeless animals, perhaps by law it was either 14 or 15 days, after it is possible to deal with euthanisation or search for a new home when the owner does not appear. This bill is undoubtedly the right step in the right direction. But shouldn't there be a parallel approach to this commitment to each pet having a chip according to the law, not according to the municipality's discretion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U71	Thank you. No, this draft law does not deal with this obligation, but, as I mentioned, it is a forum for discussion for the future, whether there really must be a separate regulation in every municipality of Estonia about how an animal can be kept. Some municipalities allow the cat out, some ban the cat out on the street, some municipalities say that the chip is mandatory, another says that it is not. I understand that when we go to regulate it, this is a slightly more serious issue, because any restriction or increase in the right to self-governance means more debate, and that is why we knowingly did not go that way this time, but the question set out by Mr Andres is entirely justified. It seems to me, too, that this approach is not very rational, but if we are going to change it, one day in the future and not in the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U72	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U73	Good manager! Good waitress! To my previous question, you answered that such a register would cost a few thousand euros and maintenance would be nothing. But here I am reading a news story about the ERR a few years ago, saying that the development of one of the registers offered to municipalities cost EUR 650000 and the annual maintenance of EUR 200000. Is the ERR lying or not? And the second question. You say you have everything mandatory in Pärnu. Pärnu is known to be one of the largest cities in the world; there are swamps and bogs and forest villages and Manilai and everything else, perhaps 860 km2. You really want to tell me that in all this giant conglomerate, all cats and dogs and white ferrets, etc., are chipped?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U74	Thank you for your question. I'm sorry, I can't give every cat a head. It's possible some of the owners left their cat unchipd. I'm not even going to ask my mother if her cat is chipd or not, just in case, but there really is such an obligation. In a sense, especially given the specific nature of Pärnu, where it may occur that a pet has a larger territory to go out, the chip is quite reasonable, as there is also a greater probability that the pet will disappear. Now, the register can be made, yes, in different ways. In Estonia, for example, there was once such an environment for pets or, well, pet owners, which certainly cost even more than the sums you mentioned. But another example, which I have pointed out, is that one of the largest registers currently used, if memory is not cheated, is used by about 40 municipalities, it cost EUR 2 000 to create this original version. So everything depends on what you do exactly, and in a situation where we have a hundred registers, they are certainly ten or more completely'recyclable'. They can simply be taken up and made into such a single register. We don't have to create anything new. We have a pretty good selection of existing registers, and we don't have to create anything from scratch. That makes this task much more favorable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U75	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The idea you're introducing here is understandable and, as you say, I can't imagine more heartache than when your pet goes missing. But would you like to make a national register today, from there to a Union-wide register, etc.? The register where my pet is satisfies me absolutely, 100%. As you have pointed out, my insurer, my animal insurer, will see and pay bills from there. The user's comfort is 100%. The only thing I do not like about [current register] is the English title of this register. Would it still not be reasonable for user comfort and free market competition to be the solutions here, so that we do not have to put command boards over everyone and tell them to have this cross-Estonian register?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U77	Thank you. Yeah, absolutely! I guess I couldn't explain that point enough in the previous answer. Logic is that this register is like a gateway to other services that if you want to create a service for a pet. However, pets have certain characteristics, such as hamsters, which are significantly different from goldfish, and apparently require different services for them. For example, if you want to create an environment for goldfish owners, you can take data from this national register because it uses open data that can be shared with other services. And then you build a new service with this data. The data can only be retrieved if the owner allows it, they are not freely available. But it is very important that they are in one place, as is the principle of e-Estonia. You have data in one register, but around this register you can build different services using open data. Many services such as veterinary clinics use such registers in other countries. It is enough that the owner pushes the button and all the details of his pet move immediately to the veterinary clinic service. We don't have that chance, we have to do it all manually. But in the future, hopefully we will also be able to reach where other developed countries are today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U78	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U79	Am I there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U80	Yeah, very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U81	Am I hearing this? My question, and I apologise to Mr Korobenik, maybe this information passed by me, is this: does this pet register include [other animals]? So far, we've been talking mostly about dogs and cats, for a moment you called hamsters. But does it include snakes, turtles, mini-horses, well, I don't know anyone who can be a pet? Does this include other pets?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U82	I'm sure there could be other pets. Not only mini-horses, real horses are great pets. Today's law mentions that chipting is only one way of identifying, but there are other ways of adding a pet to the register. So, yes, no doubt this freedom for an Estonian citizen will remain that he may have a mini horse at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U83	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm trying to explain to you a little bit about the regulatory hierarchy. As far as I know, the Constitution takes precedence in Estonia; below it comes the ordinary law, then the regulation, then the organisation, etc. In fact, § 154 of the Constitution states that the local government has the right to decide independently and organise its own activities and activities. It actually means that it's draconically cut into it as a stone at the moment. The Constitution shall prevail. And now I would like to know how it is possible for you to give a controversial commitment, or rather to take that responsibility away from the local authorities. Name this state-of-the-art regulation with which you can change this constitutional value.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U85	I didn't quite understand whether I was taking off or adding, but maybe it's not that important. Good Kalle! In the case of Pärnu, for example, there has been a constant debate about whether to introduce a tourism tax. You will travel to Pärnu to the beach and pay one euro to the city's cashier. But you can't, because there's a constitutional barricade. This cannot be done because, in order for such a tax to be a local government tax, the Riigikogu must first adopt it. Perhaps one day this possibility will come that the local authority will be able to introduce a tourism tax, but today there is no such possibility. Although the local authority can and would very much like to deal with its own organisational issues, it still cannot deal with every issue. And the exact same situation is with keeping pet records. Indeed, the local government has this competence, but it still has certain limits. For example, he can't say he doesn't want to keep that count. This is not an option for the local government, although the constitution says there could be one, right? But certain laws, unfortunately, limit this possibility. So that's it. And I am simply going by like this to mention that procedural questions, not substantive ones, can be asked in the context of a procedural question. But it was just a remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U86	Kalle Grünthal, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U87	Yes, it is. The question is that if a member of the Riigikogu asks a question to the rapporteur, he is also waiting for an answer to that question, but the honourable waitress has not yet answered. I asked what this legal regulation was, which is above the Constitution, but the good waitress did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U88	Thank you. Yeah, I hope everyone gets an answer to their question. But I'll give you a chance. Does the waitress still want to answer that question separately?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U89	Yeah, but I did answer Kalle very thoroughly. It took a few minutes for that answer, and I believe that when Kalle thinks it over, he will understand that it was actually a very exhaustive answer. We can certainly continue this discussion, but procedural questions concern procedures and they are still addressed to the President of the sitting, not to the rapporteur. Your predecessor has just admitted that he must not do this and that he was deeply wrong, and I think in that sense I would very much like to answer Kalle, but I cannot, because this is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U90	Yeah, that's true. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U91	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I welcome, of course, the proper timing. At this point, it would be very good that when people go into self-insulation, the register brings back all the pets. And I hope that the cockroaches will also be entered in that register, because in a certain culture they are also viewed as pets and moved from place to place. But I would also make one of these extremely agile and good proposals how this register could be self-sustaining. Imagine that dog owners and cat owners put up pictures of their favorites and then they can appreciate them. If you've evaluated your favourite 100 times, you can estimate your favorite with seven, for example, but if you want to get this VIP status, you buy a 10-euro ticket and you can already score 10 points. And that's how the money starts to come quietly, and that's how the all-Estonian register is. But it could also be extended elsewhere in Europe, which would bring in funding and also develop pet tourism. Petrate, for example, could be called it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U92	Thank you. It was such a negotiation format for more. A similar service existed in Estonia, but it did not go very well. Investors lost money and were very bad at it. But you can learn from mistakes and we have seen how members of the Riigikogu have become successful entrepreneurs. Kalle Palling, for example. So there's still time in that sense and strength to work! But I'd be happy to answer the questions. And cockroaches... I'm not familiar with these cultures, where they're pets, but really, in the case of a pet, it's more the choice of the person he thinks they are pets. So I'm definitely not putting my hand in front of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U93	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U94	Thank you. It is quite interesting, in itself, how this discussion has become a question of Pärnu's tourism tax, or that this register is not a real register, but a gateway, and fairy tale characters such as goldfish will also be entered in that register. But my question now comes about farm animals. Good waitress! You said horses could be part of that register. Are they still [are not farm animals? ] Well, I myself have signed this initiative, because I really think that a national register is needed. Some of your report is unclear whether you believe that farm animals are an element of this register. Why don't you explain it a little bit, because this is something that you're going to disperse in such a way that it's very difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U95	Thank you. Farm animals, cows and horses are in the agricultural register today. About the mini horses, I have to admit, I don't know exactly where they belong. But farm animals are definitely in the farm register. Once again, it is a register managed by the State and it will certainly remain in force. In the case of open data, data exchange is quite possible not only between registers but also between countries. Very many of the services that are in use in Estonia, such as among veterinary clinics, have been built on the principle that they exchange data with registers from different countries. However, in the case of Estonian registers, they cannot do so at the moment. So in the future, if there is such a need, we can also see horses in this register, but today this need has been solved very well. There is no problem with farm animals such as dogs and cats that are recorded in different registers. They are all nicely in the same place right now, and in their case, the problem that we want to solve with this bill is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U96	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have understood that the content of this draft is the retention of data, i.e. whether the data is fragmented into 20 different pieces or form a single whole. A single register does not explicitly mean that data must be entered through a single application. The modern register has different interfaces, which also allow for data exchange with other systems. Perhaps different companies can create different applications, including even the Kruusimäe Tourism app to enter and manage the same information. However, regardless of the channel, the data will go into a single register, because ultimately, it is important that the pet that goes missing in Tallinn, for example, is found in Rapla, finds its owner again and does not go into execution because the municipalities do not know about pets in the register of another municipality. Do we understand the substance of this bill in the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U98	Thank you. Yeah, that's right. But here it must also be understood that ideally it can be said that if a local authority uses a register, it can continue to use it and the data will be made available to the national register through this interface. But for that to happen, this interface has to be bilateral, and it is most likely not. So if this interface is possible, then really the local government does not have to go to the new register, but if it is not, it will have to do so. But indeed, its main value is that data can be obtained from one place. They do not need to be physically in one place, but they can be found from one place through one interface and can build new services that cannot be done today. And at all, in Estonia, although we already have the Open Data Act adopted eight years ago, its implementation is unfortunately extremely slow and we are falling short of it for many countries that have started later, but whose development has been much faster. I hope that, at least in this little niche, we will be able to act quickly enough. Too bad we didn't do it 15 years ago, but better late than never.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U99	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This is a sympathetic plan in many respects, but there have also been quite a number of confusing points in this debate. I would ask you this question: do you [immediately] or through someone, for example, have personal business interests in developing this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U101	I'm sorry, I'm not. I think the main favorites here are those who manage some of the existing registers. I do not believe that a competitive price can create a service from scratch. I don't have any pet records, I have to be honest with you, and I don't know anyone. But there are quite a few registers in Estonia, so I think some of them would be very good for this single register.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U102	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Martin Repinski, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, is now the rapporteur. Please! Martin Repinski, your turn to speak! Looks like we don't have a co-rapporteur on this bill. And that means... Andrei Korobenik, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U103	Repinski said he can't get into the system right now. He's asking for time to log in. The system logged him out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U104	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Now it is time for me to quote again Article 891 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. We should now have a recess of the sitting so that all members of the Riigikogu can do what they have foreseen in accordance with the third paragraph of the same section. Ten minutes of recess, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U106	Thank you. Only the chairman or vice-chairman of the group can be asked for a break from that side of the Chamber, but from this side the President of the sitting. How? [[Someone's gonna explain something.]] In fact, they [, the chairman and vice-chairman of the group] can take a break from the Chamber before the vote. However, the President of the sitting can take a break [at present] and we will take a five-minute break. Let's hope Martin Repinski regains contact with time. Dear Riigikogu, the intermission is over. But, as I heard, unfortunately, Martin Repinski is not on the line. Is there anyone in the Committee on Rural Affairs who could replace him, for example, the chairman of the committee? Mr. Tamm? Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U107	Then it's gonna take a little while, so I'm gonna have to find this protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U108	Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U109	Thank you, Mr President. So maybe it's possible to take a little break as long as Mr. Tamm finds out the material?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U110	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U111	Thank you. If this remote session procedure gave us the opportunity to fix our vote within five minutes of the vote at the messenger, then perhaps the Commission rapporteur can also send his report in writing. Such an important bill, I'd still like to move on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U112	Thank you. Unfortunately, we do not have that opportunity. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U113	I wouldn't agree with Andres' proposal, because then there's no way to ask, but Andres' questions are always very exciting. So I'd still like to hear the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U114	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U115	Thank you, good Chairman! I recall that we once had a procedure here, which was a very important topic for the sots, that still [sick days compensation] from day one, and then just the waitress refused to come to the remote. At what point can we assume that Repinski has the will to represent the [Commission]? Maybe he's just free in his worldview, and he thinks he doesn't want to represent it, and he just refuses to come? Do we have a solid basis [to believe] that he simply does not want this procedure to continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U116	I don't know what to say about that. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U117	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to question our electronic work format here in any way, but I think we must, however, essentially respect the internal logic of the Rules of Procedure Act. And § 73 of the Rules of Procedure Act clearly states the impossibility of discussing the item on the agenda: if there is no rapporteur present, the debate will be postponed to the next working week. Such an automatic procedure that someone can replace [the rapporteur], however, I do not remember in Parliament's 20-year practice. It has also been the case that political motives have sometimes not shown up as waitresses in order to perhaps cancel a procedure, but it has never been said that it will be like looking for someone in an emergency who will replace them. Such an opportunity, in my opinion, is not provided for in the current practice of interpreting the Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U118	Yes, it is quite right that, if it is not possible for a rapporteur to make a report for any reason, it is indeed a procedural impossibility and that it will be delayed. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U119	I can assure you, however, that I have spoken on the phone with Mr. Repinski and he writes through other channels that he has a very strong will to present his report, but unfortunately he will not get hit. Other options, such as telephoning or something else, can be considered in itself, but it is certainly not a political statement. Martin really wants to perform right now, but he just can't for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U120	Yes, in fact, our Home and Working Procedures Act says that the Chairman of the Commission may ex officio replace a member of the Commission appointed as rapporteur for the Commission, for example at first or second reading of the draft law. But I hope Martin Repinski still shows up on this screen. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U121	Yes, I wanted to support Urmas Reinsalu's position. If this is not possible, it is not possible and then the agenda needs to be moved forward and this specific draft should be postponed to the agenda of the next sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U122	Thank you. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U123	Thank you. However, I would like to point out that the law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu clearly allows the chairman of the committee to replace the rapporteur. This is a procedure entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which has previously been implemented in the Riigikogu. I hope Tarmo finds this protocol and can report it soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U124	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U125	My proposal is to move on, too. Let's get it together! When Tarmo clearly said that he was not prepared for this [report], he must go to the protocol to find out, I do not think we have any sense for each other to do the theatre here. Why don't we go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U126	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U127	Thank you. Today, the Rules of Procedure have been very rough on many occasions. I do not think that we should have such a ultra-liberal policy. If the item on the agenda is not discussed by a rapporteur (§ 73 (1)), it must be postponed to the next working week (paragraph 2). We don't have any other options.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U128	Thank you. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U129	Thank you. Regrettably, Kalle once again comes from a certain sentence in a situation where he holds a very large pile of papers. As has been mentioned many times, the chairman of the committee may replace the rapporteur, and we have just seen that the chairman of the committee is entirely virtually present. So to say there's no waitress, you can't. I'm the initiator of the bill. I am speaking now as vice-chairman of the group, but as the initiator of the draft, I was present at the committee meeting and the debate on this point took three minutes, so this is not a very long protocol. However, I propose that the Home and Rules of Procedure Act be applied and that the chairman of the committee be given a presentation if Martin Repinski is currently unable to contact the information system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U130	Thank you. Yes, but we do not have the main rapporteur, Martin Repinski, or the chairman of the committee, Tarmo Tamme, here to make a presentation. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U131	I think we have a strange situation. I understand there is a waitress, but there isn't. Andrei has a connection to him. Actually, he's not away, his absence doesn't exist, but his presence doesn't exist either. This is, in fact, a situation which is currently not regulated by the Rules of Procedure Act, and in such a situation, I am not quite sure that the chairman of the committee can replace [the rapporteur] if the Member of the Commission is not away because he exists, he wants to perform, but he is not here. Consequently, there is now such an electronic session gap, which will then have to be discussed later. But obviously we, I think, cannot go into the double rapporteur's logic if there are both persons who are capable of making a report. Right now, the situation is backwards, where neither exists, I get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U132	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U133	Thank you, good Chairman! As Vice-Chairman of the Fatherland Group, I say that the situation is, in fact, already embarrassing. The voters are asking what's going on, the Prime Minister is in self-insulation, the ministers are missing somewhere, we're at the top of our own infection rates, we're discussing a pet register here at 2:30 this morning, and we're now looking for a co-rapporteur. I have to say that this is extremely embarrassing, and please take a decision that we will move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U134	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U135	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. A person can't resist in mass, said a woman when she left two verses of the Orel in the church. Today we have experienced the full fiasco and collapse of the Riigikogu's remote session. Indeed, let's move on, see what we can do. And if we really have to pinch, we're gonna pick up our paws and let our IT genius fix the systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U136	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it is possible, if we definitely need to listen to Mr Repinski, to stop the debate on this issue now? Let's move on to the next one, and once Repinski gets in touch, we can finish this too. Right now, we're practically testing this remote connection and all this work. This puts additional responsibilities on us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U138	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U139	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, It's become absurd what we're doing here today. I am not going to talk about the endless interruptions and embarrassing situations of our IT connections, endless breaks. Right now, the absolute peak of the corona crisis is, but here at midnight we are discussing the chip and register of cats and dogs. We don't have any performers. Our esteemed Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu made a statement a few hours ago that we could actually act instead of adhere to regulations. This is a historic night where new directions to the functioning of the Riigikogu are being or are being put in place. I think it's actually just a boat sinking, and everyone's trying to leave a little bit of a dignified picture. Once again, I propose that we put an end to this embarrassing performance in the language of the country and that our IT department's good people be allowed to work a little harder in the hours until morning and some of our colleagues sleep well, because it will soon be the second hour of the night, but we will have bigger and sharper discussions yet to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U140	Thank you. Indeed, today's session has been absolutely extraordinary in these mistakes and it is already going to be awkward. But since the members of the Riigikogu have so many questions, everyone must have the opportunity to say them. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U141	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to two points. Firstly, the chairman of the committee can, if necessary, replace the rapporteur appointed by the Commission, which has happened in the past. Today we have the chairman of the committee, Tarmo Tamm, who is ready to give this presentation, so I think that we can now proceed calmly on this point. Although I agree that our IT system probably needs a thorough review after today's session, because it is, of course, very sad that we have a performer who wants to come to the remote control, in principle cannot [do this]. But I propose that the President give the floor to Tarmo Tammele.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U142	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U143	I would like to point out that the chairman of the committee has signed up nicely and very much wants to perform. The claim that there is no waitress is absolutely not a criminal. The waitress is quite there, very much wants to move forward, but I can't right now because there are a lot of procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U144	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U145	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I join this previous call. We are in the midst of a corona disaster and are dealing with an issue that, for humanistic-human reasons, could be an important issue to deal with and discuss during peacetime. What about now, in the middle of the night? The Estonian Parliament deals with [at a time when we have] Europe's largest viral index, the organisation of registering cats and dogs, in a situation where it has not been possible to build an IT system for a month to extend the HOIA app from two metres to ten metres, and where the TEAC data are entered by the Health Insurance Fund by hand each week, because the legal records have not yet been accepted and brought to Parliament for processing. And now we say that our priority is not to solve the arrangements for vaccination, which are caused by manual work at the Health Insurance Fund, our priority is not to fight the virus with IT tools, but to say that [our priority is] the question of cats and dogs. Something about this, respectable public representatives, is going wrong. If Tarmo very much wants to discuss this thoroughly, we will discuss it, but I do not think that this is the right priority for the representative of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U146	Thank you. This is very relevant to the case. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U147	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, We see this coalition and the Centre Party falling apart under our eyes. I would have a perfectly procedural proposal to the President of the Riigikogu to exercise the powers conferred on him by the Home and Working Procedures Act, that such a stretch and absurd situation, where there is no performer and his replacement cannot find papers and is referring to our midnight time, as Urmas Reinsalu said, in a situation where the country is in a very catastrophic situation, it is all... If it wasn't ridiculous, it would be tragic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U148	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm has actually been ready to report for a long time. But we have a whole bunch of procedural questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U149	Thank you, good Chairman! I am simply saying, for the sake of the verbatim, that we have the term'remote work', but if a member of the Riigikogu is too far away from the place where he can work remotely, then we should be able to position where he is in the interests of history. Perhaps on the Kõpu peninsula, for example, it is not possible to work remotely. But now we just have to consider that Andrei Korobenik claims to have a phone connection that doesn't possibly provide the necessary connection for teleworking. We can't just keep hoping for it. A man has a will, but if he's a long way from where he can work remotely, he's just not there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U150	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U151	Thank you, Mr President. It has already sounded here many times today that this issue of dogs and cats should not be a priority if we now have the problem of the corona virus, which I think is the most topical that can be. But I would ask both the Riigikogu chair and the good colleagues to think that we will see that today this system is limping by all the legs that it has, and if we continue now, the question is whether our IT specialists will be able to fix it by tomorrow. They must be given sufficient time to make it fully operational by tomorrow. We have a particularly important point tomorrow, a crucial discussion on the national issue of 'Dossiness in rejecting the corona virus', and that is the point that we need to get this remote participation in order, not in a way that the same circus will start again tomorrow. I mean, I think it is crucial that our specialists can ensure that we are fully prepared to discuss this issue by tomorrow, and that is why we should stop today for these reasons alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U152	Thank you. It is absolutely right that this system is designed to enable us to work remotely, and if the system does not work, then the problem is really very, very big. But now there is an opportunity to make a joint presentation by the Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, Tarmo Tammel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U153	Thank you, manager. I apologize for the delays and inconveniences! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Extract from the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu, which took place in Tallinn on Monday 22 February, Protocol No 89. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, the Deputy Secretary-General of Food Safety Hendrik Kuusk, the Deputy Secretary-General of Fisheries Policy and External Relations Siim Tiidemann, the Deputy Chancellor of Agriculture and Rural Policy Marko Gorban and the Adviser to the Minister of Rural Affairs Evelin Oras, and the representative of the initiator of the draft, Andrei Korobeinik. We discussed the proposal of the members of the Riigikogu, the same one that Andrei Korobeinik has already read. Andrei Korobeinik introduced the draft initiated by the members of the Riigikogu by 307. He pointed out that the purpose of the draft was to establish a national pet register. He gave an overview of this and, as the initiator's rapporteur, presented the content of the draft in detail. Hendrik Kuusk gave an overview of the position of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Merry Aart expressed the opinion that before making a decision, it was important to consider why responsibility would be taken away from local authorities. Andrei Korobeinik answered Merry Aart with the same words, as he said here today to the members of the Riigikogu, that it does not take responsibility, but simply makes the work of local governments easier and allows the creation of a national register. Andrus Seed asked whether the new government should be consulted on the draft. Councillor Marin Daniel explained that draft 307 was the opinion of the outgoing government and that there is no need to ask for a new position of the government, as this is an initiative and proposal of the members of the Riigikogu. Andrei Korobenik pointed out that the problem with the national pet register has been up for 15 years. He agreed that it was positive that the Ministry of Rural Affairs had started developing the draft plan. Procedural decisions were also taken. It was decided to propose a draft 307 on the plenary agenda by 8 March 2021 (consensus), a proposal to terminate the first reading of draft 307 (consensus), a proposal to appoint Tarmo Tamm, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as rapporteur. At the next meeting we changed the waitress, appointed Martin Repinski a waitress, but as it turns out, Martin Repinski could not report today. All the decisions were consensual: Merry Aart, Kaido Hoevilson, Ivari Padar, Martin Repinski, Üllar Saaremäe, Andrus Seede, Tarmo Tamm, Aivar Viidik. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U154	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U155	Yes, Mr President, there is a procedural question. I believe that there is a situation that we have identified here as one of the threats to the development of this system. We don't know who's really gonna report this report to us. I cannot say this, but a good colleague of Tarmo Kruusimäe said that it is not the voice of Tarmo Tamm. [Moaning in the hall. ] I would like to see a picture of the man who was presently reporting to us there, for in this way any character may come to speak there. I think that is justified because we cannot allow such things. We don't know, we're saying that the right handler doesn't show up, they find someone, and a good colleague from Tarmo Kruusimäe says it's not that man's voice at all. We'd like to see a picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U156	Yeah, it was blinking for a second. The picture disappeared again, but it did come for a second.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U157	You can see it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U158	It is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U159	This should be Tarmo Tamm, member of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee. And his voice should be that of the man in the picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U160	Yes, the proof has been obtained. Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U161	I'm sorry, yes, I just wanted to say that it was really Tarmo's voice before he opened the hatch. So Tarmo's probably a little tired, but don't doubt that someone's making Tarmo's voice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U162	Thank you. And now Tarmo Tamm is also registered as a questioner. I don't think the waitress can ask herself any questions, though. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U163	Yeah. I see I'm in a situation where I have to apologize for the fact that my ear is really tired. I realized I was tired, and that's what Peter Ernits said, that Tarmo was a little tired. Yes, I am. I didn't recognize Tarmo Tamme. My bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U164	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U165	Yes, I am also forced to apologize to Tarmo Tamm because I do not know his voice, and I am tired, and I feel that Tarmo Tamm is tired too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U166	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U167	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! I think this situation is grotesque, what is happening now, grotesque, given the extraordinary, catastrophic situation in which we are living with the virus. We are aware that the 32 family doctors' names have not yet been able to give 80+ injections of vaccines to the elderly at the beginning of this week. We have a situation in which, in practice, there are very serious problems with the compatibility of databases in relation to the organisation of vaccination and anti-viralisation. And we're working on the cat and dog register on Wednesday at 2:00 a.m. It is very regrettable that this situation has taken place. Which does not mean that we should not take action by the state to protect cats and dogs and all pets and to be good members of their families. But this isn't just this moment. We have a catastrophic situation, we are Europe's highest rates of infection, and we are dealing with the register of cats and dogs tonight. I am sorry that the Commission has put this on our agenda, and it has come to this very moment. I do not think that this is an expression of the authority and internal will of our Parliament to wish to deal with the most important issues at the moment in a critical situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U168	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U169	Yeah, Urmas turned down the basics, but I don't know how many times I've said we're gonna stop this shit. At 10 o'clock in the morning, we are discussing this as a matter of national importance, saying in the language of the country, the bardak that we have had in the fight against the corona for the second time this week. And at night, soon the third hour of the night is approaching, we are seriously discussing the register of cats and dogs and their chipping. I am still waiting for a speech so that I can speak on behalf of my party, and we still have a lot of important things ahead of us: the draft kill of the population crisis, etc. Let's come to our senses and stop this shit! It's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U170	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U171	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I will join the two previous speakers in two hundred percent. The situation is extremely serious, but we are dealing with some grotesque problem here. Last night, new lethal data from the British strain of Chinese disease were published. This disease is 30 to 100% more contagious than the original strain. And we're really dealing with some sort of 64th degree thing here. Let's solve the problems in order of their arrival. Today, Chinese disease is number one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U172	Thank you. But before we can go any other way, we have a whole bunch of procedural questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U173	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask you to consider, in addition to everything above, the question that our IT specialists are now making desperate efforts to keep our members of the Riigikogu on the line. But they, too, need a break so we can work our asses off tomorrow. We also need to think that they are as capable as we are. And that is why I ask from the heart, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu, that we conclude today, because one of the brigades still has to work today to ensure that we can work tomorrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U174	Thank you for that question. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, I call on you perhaps not to ask so many procedural questions because they are not directly procedural. And I would also like to point out that § 74 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure regulates so-called procedural questions. These are, above all, protests and questions. If a member of the Riigikogu wishes to receive an explanation of the rules governing the conduct of the sitting, he or she may ask the President of the sitting a question. What we've heard here lately is not about the rules of the hearing. We have been through the item on the agenda of the sitting nicely, and my recommendation would indeed be to keep up with procedural questions at the moment, but of course everyone who wishes to do so can do so. Please note that we have more points on the agenda and we will be able to move forward when the issues that are registered, either withdrawn or resolved. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U175	Thank you, good manager. Is it... [Community chops] ... then it can... very... really come up against technical execution so that we can not then vote on the situation in the big hall. So, what's our position in the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U176	Thank you for that question. Technically, as we can see, Tarmo Tamm got it well reported and it's completely correct. And the other connections have worked. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U177	A procedural question. On today's seventh item, 115 SE, we voted exactly one and a half hours on three amendments. Thanks to those who are now offering to work hard tomorrow, we'll be done today. Dear people, when you came here, you knew that on Wednesdays the sitting would run until the end of the agenda, and that doesn't mean anything, whether it's 1:00 or 2:00 or 6:00. And how important the question is at 10:00 in the morning, we'll be working here till 10:00 if we have to. At the moment, I only have one suggestion: if you want to work hard tomorrow and you need to sleep it off, let us end this stalling. Let us move on to the agenda and work normally on this agenda instead of listening to the proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U178	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would also like to make one suggestion for my part, but it would be quite different from what has been the case. In spring, when we announced the emergency situation, we resolved the issue so that basically all the issues and issues that were not directly related to the resolution of the crisis were discarded. Now the emergency situation has not been announced, but I would suggest that the Board of the Riigikogu should come together and consider a similar procedure until we can essentially resolve this substantive emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U180	Thank you for this question. In the spring, the reason was precisely that we did not have distance-sharing sessions regulated. Now they are, and they're working. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U181	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to point out that in the middle of the Coronal Crisis, the EKRE ambassadors spend hours stalling this sitting. Would we be able to move forward with a agenda that is, in fact, already in the final stages, and I think at this rate we will be able to pass it by 6:00 and we can go calmly to the important question that awaits us on Thursday at 10:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U182	Let's move on. Tarmo Tamm has asked for the floor. Tarmo Tamm did his report, I understand. Is Tarmo Tammel a reply request? It's not there. Then we can go back to the agenda. We have heard a presentation by both the commission and the initiator's representative, and we will go to the negotiations. Would you like to negotiate? Yeah. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U183	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, it is embarrassing to talk about cats and dogs at the top of this corona, even though they are very expensive. First of all, I would like to say that it is positive if some drafts come from within the Riigikogu and, in fact, there should be much more, but such drafts should also be mature and adequate and timely. Clearly, coming up at the top of the corona apandemia with this kind of thing, and all the more reason to discuss it at night, it's absurd. In 2003, local authorities were obliged to deal with cats, dogs and other pets, but to date only half of them have taken this seriously. In 2018, the Food and Veterinary Office came up with such a proud plan that all cats, dogs, ferrets and others born this year should be chipped. See for yourself, of course not. And now, 2021, the national register with which ladies and gentlemen have come. We don't know how many pets we have first. I used to try to estimate their number. Cows, sheep, pigs are known, but there are very few data on pets, cats and dogs and others. But according to some data, we have over 200,000 dogs, and there's a lot more cats. And when you start chipping them all, especially on a mandatory basis, it's quite expensive fun. Colleagues Korobeinik, former Chairman of the Pärnu Council, said that in his 858 square miles [858 km] town, this is one of the largest cities in the world, the mandatory chipping. Well, I'm deeply convinced it's only what they say in Russian, pokazuha. The same applies to Tallinn. So it's actually very expensive fun. When it comes to how much this register will cost, my dear colleague Korobeinik said that a few thousand can do it. But at the same time, one register that is currently in operation, has cost local authorities 650000 and annual maintenance of 200000. But the register goes with the chip and chips at the price, the price of one chip is 20.30 euros. Many people today in Estonia, who are in a very difficult economic situation, are obviously overpowered by the chipping of their pets, especially on a mandatory basis, even though these animals are very, very sweet and expensive. This bill is grafted on the side of § 11 of the Law on the Control of Animal Disease, which speaks of other puddles, but now they also come. But it is frightening how the draft says that this register, this online, national pet register, will be made mandatory for local authorities. We know very well that it is the local government that does, itself controls, itself determines the salary of its managers, sometimes even higher than the salary of the largest local government manager. And local governments are sovereigns. Putting them on some responsibilities and yet the draft explanatory memorandum is not credible. What do you want me to say? Actually, it makes sense. Secondly, the Riigikogu, we colleagues, should come up with much more drafts that will make Estonia's life better. But they should also be mature and timely and adequate. Unfortunately, the current draft has not, however, been discussed with stakeholders, and has simply come up with a rather crude matter. At the same time, it's known that the Ministry of Rural Affairs is working on it. Although the Ministry of Rural Affairs has given this bill a wolf pass on behalf of the previous government. The current government has not intervened, as I understand it. So it's almost morning. But, on behalf of the EKRE Group, I propose that this, in itself, be nice, but not a mature draft, be rejected. Digitally, this proposal has also been submitted to the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U184	Andres Metsoja next on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U185	Yeah, thanks! Indeed, the procedure for this draft has not come to the right time and is not a good sign of this draft or action. But it has to be said that keeping pets is part of the culture, and actually, when we are talking about keeping pets, we are talking about the culture of animal husbandry. I think this is a crucial issue because the problem of mistreated animals, stray animals has been in Estonia for a long time, true, today it is in a declining trend. But it takes public money to deal with all this. And that is precisely the responsibility imposed on local authorities. After all, municipalities often do not fulfil this obligation themselves with their employees, but they arrange for the purchase of this service. Local governments often also consolidate, and I think it is right that they are already consolidated in obtaining a service to catch these stray and homeless animals, if necessary to treat them and return them to the owner, or, worse, euthanize them. It's all about emotion and expense. In Pärnu, the municipalities have finally agreed that asylum infrastructure will also be built. Today's shelter is located next to a closed landfill in decayed and rotted containers. But the creation of this environment, in accordance with the laws established by the Riigikogu, costs the taxpayer about 700000 euros. This procurement has been carried out, but it's only one part, that's the environment in which to deal with these animals. The other half is the content of the work to gather these animals off the street and to deliver them to the shelter. I think it makes perfect sense, and the municipalities have discussed it through the ages, that this one register should appear in Estonia. Because there is no point in talking about the chip of animals, if, in essence, yes, you can read these chips from the neck of an animal or from where it is placed, but the information on this chip does not run out. After all, we live in an e-state, while keeping an animal with a chip [over-account] somewhere in a folder or in a drawer is unreasonable. And maybe this register isn't so directly a local government tool in the future, but it's the tool of these service providers, for example, all over Estonia, the biggest player today is the NGO of Shadowplaces, we hope that there will be more service providers on the market, that if they catch this animal from somewhere, then every municipality wants that animal to return to its owner. In that case, the costs are borne by the owner, not by the local authority, and are essentially bought out of the service provider. But the other side, if we don't talk about the chip and the register doesn't talk about how to move forward with the animal culture in Estonia from the level where the dog is taken in spring, the puppy is taken, who has grown up by autumn and no longer fits into the apartment, then it becomes a problem for society. It has to be dealt with, and it is emotional and financial in the same way. But I think there was too much ridicule about this subject today. There are no ridiculous issues in society, there is a place for every subject, and I think that it must be taken seriously forward to consider all kinds of bottlenecks, aspects that have also been argued as serious today. So force us in the trial! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U186	Andrei Korobenik wanted a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U187	Thank you. However, since Mr Ernits mentioned my name, I must mention that I am also the current chairman of the Pärnu Council, not once, and that the statement that stakeholders have not been consulted in drafting the draft is completely wrong. We have involved about ten local organisations, and their main concerns were the lack of a national register in top-2. So that statement was completely wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U188	And now, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U189	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, It is sad that when it comes to animals and pets and agriculture at all, it is as if these issues are not discussed at night, because it is a second-rate issue for the Estonian state. If we sum up the time balance we've been spending in today's session, then half the time has gone to all kinds of procedural questions. Unfortunately, Martin Repinski couldn't get in touch today, so I had to do this Martin job, but I guess in the future I'll have to prepare better for homework, because it's very difficult to report these protocols and everything, but it's not a lesson for the future. I do believe that this is a worthwhile draft that has been initiated by Members of Parliament. And the government is ready to implement this bill plan. So I hope that MEPs will support it, and that it will become one of those worthy laws that will simplify the work of local governments in the future as well as the day-to-day activities of animal keepers and give animal keepers a sense of security that there is a certain order and register of animals, that these animals will not disappear and that they can be found. So in any case, I would ask all Members to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U190	The political groups have no more requests to speak, so we have concluded the negotiations. The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading, but we have received the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject draft 307 at first reading, and we must vote through it. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote before you the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft Act amending § 11 of the Law on epizootic disease at first reading 307. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U191	The proposal was voted in favour by 18 votes to 53, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Therefore, the first reading has been completed and I will set the deadline of 25 March for the submission of amendments, not 24 but 25 March, because our date has already changed at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U192	Our 13th item on the agenda today is draft No 338 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu on "Construction of the Problem Committee on Resolution of the National Crisis." The first-reading report is made by Mart Võrguship on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U193	Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 February, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Estonian Centre Party, I submitted a draft to the Riigikogu procedure "Revision of the Riigikogu's decision "Construction of a problem committee for resolving the public crisis'. The purpose of the draft is to terminate the committee before the deadline laid down in the decision setting it up, according to which the mandate of the committee ends at the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu. This commission has been set up by the Riigikogu's decision on the establishment of a problem committee for the resolution of a public crisis, which was adopted on 30 May 2019. The task of the problem committee in resolving the population crisis is to design the Estonian population policy in order to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. The preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture, I dare say, is the task of all of us, not just one committee, and this is also expressed in the preamble to our constitution. Thus, demographic issues need to be dealt with in a much wider way and in different areas of life and policy-making. The permanent committees of the Riigikogu, mainly the Social Affairs Committee, deal with matters relating to the population. The Ministry of Social Affairs also deals with the same subject matter. The Ministry of the Interior deals with population policy and sustainable family policy. Under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, the development plan for the population and a coherent society has begun in autumn 2020, which aims, among other things, at a family- and child-friendly environment, birth rate, health and regional development support and inclusive Estonia. The Committee on Population Crisis in the Riigikogu duplicates the work of the Social and Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Social Affairs, Internal Affairs, Education and Foreign Affairs. Therefore, the existence of a problem committee is not necessary, reasonable or economically feasible, as the Commission's work also requires significant additional expenditure from the state budget. In a situation where the aim of the state is to cut public spending, finding savings by the Riigikogu is a necessary example. In January 2021, the position of Minister of Population was also abolished, and officials were transferred to ministries where the relevant policies were previously dealt with. The proposal is to terminate the Demographic Crisis Problem Committee and to continue to deal with the relevant content issues in the Riigikogu, in particular the Social Affairs Committee, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Culture and Foreign Affairs. I ask you to support the draft that has been submitted and I am waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U194	There's a lot of them. Start Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U195	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Here for two years, we have heard how the Reform Party has a big plan. At this point, I understand that you will immediately take out the plan from the back pocket, how the population crisis has already been reversed. I ask whether it is for women, for example, to ban pills or to have some sort of mind poisons, or how else you can ensure that Estonian women voluntarily become delivery machines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U196	First of all, I have to say a slightly inappropriate question to ask in this form. I guess every family and every woman decides when she wants to give birth and she wants to start a family. But the Reform Party has a history of showing a number of support measures or benefits for families, such as parental benefit, support for families with children's wealth, support for large families. From my practice, I can say that the support of the municipality and the kindergarten place, which every municipality, I think, is making an effort in Estonia, is not less important. I myself have been in charge of several kindergarten constructions when making decisions as a municipal manager. I think that if, as a country and as a municipality, and also with the attitude of society, we create a sense of security for families, it will still contribute to family policy and to having children.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U197	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U198	Thank you. Honourable speaker! Let me get this straight: for you, the population crisis and population policy are primarily linked to labour policy. We dealt with a bill here some time ago, where foreigners can start challenging visas. I hear there's gonna be some changes. You're talking about children. How do you see this coming out of the population crisis? I have been on both committees, I am now a member of the Social Affairs Committee, I have previously also been a member of this committee that you want to lose, and I do not see any duplication there. In my opinion, the population crisis is a very serious problem now in Estonia. And the fact that we are not dealing with this at parliamentary level seems completely absurd to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U199	On a parliamentary level, we are dealing with this. I have told you that the main person involved is the Committee on Social Affairs, as well as the Committee on Culture and the respective ministries. If you mentioned that you have been in both committees, I would rather ask what has been done or dealt with by this committee in order to solve this problem. Unfortunately, when I looked at the reports on the work of the last two years, I did not see too many concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U200	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You also spoke today in your speech about the savings that this bill will bring. The question is that today you did not talk about numbers, but you said in the Commission sitting that savings will be EUR 100000 if we lose this committee. Since the hearing took place via Zoom and everyone was in the picture, I took contact with the Financial Department of the Riigikogu immediately afterwards, because you were unable to reply to what data it was based on 100,000. Instead, it turned out that the amount saved by the liquidation of this committee was well below 10000. Question: why do you come up with a draft that does not correspond to reality and what is the purpose of presenting such drafts if the problem of the Estonian people is extremely acute?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U202	Yeah, it's a cost question. I have here a specific budget from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the annual cost of one of the problem committees is 100000 euros. If we now ask what savings are, we will take the view that a Commission has been set up and today's decision will be valid until the end of its membership, which is March 2023. A rapid calculation shows that it depends on the date now this year for the Commission to complete its activities, but if, for example, April or May, the costs have been incurred for nearly half a year, the order of 60000 to 70000 could be savings for that year, in 2022 at 100000. And proportionally, then in 300002023, perhaps we will meet nicely at 200,000, which is a lot more than we talked about in the Commission, because that's where we talked about the cost of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U203	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U204	Good manager! Good waitress! Do you know how this was about losing the Commission? You got two women together, one was Kaja Kallas and the other was Mailis Reps, and decided that each party had to have a special committee. The Centre Party wanted a special committee on teaching the Estonian language, but Kaja Kallas said that the situation of the population crisis is not going to work and is not necessary. And now what you're talking about right now is what you say politely, round talk. I ask why the Reform Party, at least some part of the core, has always viewed population problems with arrogance. Let me remind you that not everything has been like this, in fact, the current ministers Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Kalle Laane were among those who voted in favour of the creation of the Commission four years ago. Although your party's heavy artillery has always been talking about this nonsense and better than it isn't. Why does the Reform Party feel so arrogantly about solving the problems of the Estonian population?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U205	The Reform Party certainly does not take an arrogant approach to solving population problems. What the Reform Party thinks is that if we have a problem, we'll actually deal with it. [To that end, the creation of one committee, which, I say yet, at least during its composition, has not come up with any proposals from the Riigikogu's website, there have been some hearings. True, at least "Principles of the People's Policy 2035" were created during the previous term, which for some reason was not accepted in the Riigikogu Chamber. The Reform Party wishes to address population issues and has dealt with them. I mentioned earlier that there are quite significant steps in history, which have been very clearly well received in society and certainly increased birth rate and gave families a sense of security. Above all, I think it is parental benefit, but also child support and support for large families, and, as I said, the creation of kindergarten places and the provision of good education, to which I myself have made a major contribution. Maybe it's a long way from arrogance. We are dealing with content, we are dealing specifically with content, not just talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U206	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you once again that the time to ask a question is one minute. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U207	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, of course, it's nice that you all of these initiatives of the Fatherland that concern family policy are now beautifully linked to your own great accomplishments, but still. We've heard that Kaja Kallas has a plan, he has a plan for everything. In order not to be just an exorcist of the empty warm air, please show us what is currently replacing the face of your Reform Party, a squirrel, a squirrel, what this plan is to come out of the crisis. I have been a member of this committee and I have so far, I have been to these meetings and I must say that your idea of what you have perhaps read on paper is premature. But maybe it's because the time you've been in the Riigikogu and perceived the specificity of the Riigikogu is too short.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U208	Thank you. Yes, I have not been in the Riigikogu for too long, but I have tried to investigate the work of this committee and, as I said, these things have become clear. But what is the policy of the Reform Party, isn't that the best way of commenting is for us right now by the ministers of the sector. But I think that paying attention to families, supporting families, listening to and helping families and creating a safe environment, creating kindergarten places, all these are priorities. They certainly support family policy and, at the same time, listen to families and help them, all of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U209	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! The formation of similar problem committees is, in fact, to a significant extent also the publication of censure on the permanent committees of the Riigikogu. The question is, what are these for? And that is why I am asking, honourable rapporteur, whether, in preparing this draft decision, you also encountered it, just as in the Committee on Social Affairs or in the Committee on Culture, there is no capacity to deal with these issues or whether they are not manned well enough. I think they have this ability, but I'm gonna check with you, just in case. It would be very natural that it is the domain of these committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U211	These committees, the Committee on Social Affairs and Culture, certainly have this competence; they have the capacity to deal with it. In the same way, the same members of the Riigikogu that we are here are in the composition of the committees, and everyone will be able to take part in the permanent committees if they cannot go to the committee themselves, then through their group associates. Rather, I have heard just the opinion that, through permanent committees, this work would be more operational and concrete and perhaps less time would be spent listening to ministries and specialists. There is a lot of duplication and this work could be done more effectively and concretely, especially through the permanent committees of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U212	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U213	Thank you. Good Mart! It seems to me that you are still living in the cycle of kindergarten construction, but I suggest you come to the level of Parliament's work. Parliament's parliamentary debate has a very important role to play in Parliament's work, and if there is no place to hold a parliamentary debate, there will be no such issues and understanding. I have been a member of the Committee on Social Affairs for two years and I can safely say to you that at least the two years we have been dealing with there today, not to mention the last year, which has essentially gone to a significant extent to the fight against the corona crisis, unfortunately there is not too much opportunity left for this important issue in the Committee on Social Affairs. And that is why the special committee is very sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U214	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U215	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As I understand it, your wish is to make financial savings by eliminating this committee. I now ask you: can you give your man's word, or honour, that your party or coalition partner will no longer form a commission? Because otherwise, your claim on this is absurd. I ask if you can give me your word of man or your word of honor, but life also shows that sometimes a man gives the floor, a man takes the floor. That's why I'm asking like I'm familiar with the platno world. Are you ready to paw your own paw, or tooth? I'm sorry for the expression!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U217	I think that is an inappropriate question in this Chamber and I do not consider it necessary to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U218	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U219	Thank you. Good waitress! I have this question about cost savings. If we save our expenses here, but the ministries and, say, the ministries' agencies are engaged in such fine investments, renting more expensive premises, such as the Labour Inspectorate in Tartu moved to three times the most expensive rental space, what do you personally think? We save hundreds of thousands and could continue the work of this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U220	I guess we all have to look at what we're doing within our sphere of competence. If we want to create a thinner country and there are opportunities to do so, then review our organisation of work, if there is duplication, if work can be done more efficiently, then work more effectively and thus save costs. Unfortunately, I can't comment on anyone's so-called rental decisions. This is the subject of a particular institution and they must make their own decisions with the best knowledge. I would like to hope that we also have a minister of public administration, and if the costs are not justified in certain cases, the National Audit Office will also look at these matters. However, I do not have the authority to comment on the rental decisions of a specific institution here at the moment, because it would require some background information and it is not exactly a Member's competence either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U221	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U222	Thank you. After all, we have all known for a long time that the Reform Party and some other parties are not really interested in our population problems and crisis. We know how the same committee on the problem of resolving the population crisis was worked, where the decisions were actually taken in a consensual manner, but since certain parties, especially your party associates, simply torpedoed the work of this committee, there was no good skin coming from there. Now you want to eliminate the [Commission] in its entirety and claim that the Committee on Culture and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, etc., are dealing with it. When everyone does, let's face it, nobody directly deals with it, nobody's responsible. So do you have any view of the nature of the population crisis, do you think it exists?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U223	What is now called a population crisis? During the last two years, natural growth has been a positive birth rate. I had it in here somewhere, but at the moment, I don't even know if there's 200 to 300 people. Of course, this is an issue that needs to be dealt with all the time. This is dealt with in the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and quite firmly. As I said, the Ministry of the Interior has also started to draw up a development plan for the population and a coherent society. It is about a family- and child-friendly environment, and it is about birth rates and health. So it is dealt with both at the level of the development plan and at the level of the government's action plan. This is certainly an important issue for the Reform Party; I do not agree with these claims that this is not important for the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U224	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U225	Thank you very much. Look, Mart, all these motives and the reasons by which you base this committee on the need to wind up existed before the Commission was set up, existed after the Commission was set up, and will continue to exist after the Commission has been dissolved, if this happens now. In addition, the problems remain, including those for which this Commission was set up. Consequently, this is simply the kind of political spite that Peter Ernits described here in the grotesque, but still in an understandable way. It is also an arroganic approach to the problems of the population crisis as a whole. At best, it is a desire to simply kill the parliamentary debate. Would you please disprove my claims, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U226	The debate will not kill because, as I said, we have a number of permanent committees, the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on Culture, who are working on this issue. And when you pointed out that nothing has changed, this committee has been working, as far as I know, for nearly six years. Then one should ask these Members of the Commission: why, then, nothing has changed after six years of work has been done? I am responding to your argument at the moment when you say that nothing has changed, that you yourself are saying that this Commission has done nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U227	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U228	Yes, thank you, good manager. Mart, it's embarrassing to hear what you're saying. Six years has worked! In Rae parish, where you were, I don't know how long you were there, but the population commission hasn't worked for six years, your papers are wrong. But let me ask you a question. In 2005, two such flagship articles were published, one being Rein Taagepera's "Demographic toilet" and the second was entitled "The Tragedy of the World of Lasteta." And I'm asking you, Mart, do you know who wrote this second article? Or have you read it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U229	I'd love to read it. And I am sorry that I was wrong about this committee's work, not for six years, but for four years. It was my mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U230	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U231	Thanks! Good Mart! I am listening to this debate, and my question is pushing from the part where you and your groupmate, Toomas Kivimägi, have been discussing here. Both of you argued that the ordinary committee would do this work better and be more effective and that there was no need for the problem committee to do so. Today, there are two problem committees in the Riigikogu: what I am talking about now, the population problem committee and the second, the problem committee in the Estonian language, which will come as the next item on the agenda. Will Aadu Black and his committee do a bad job not to lose this Estonian language commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U232	Surely Aadu Black and the Committee on Culture do no harm. I think that they are doing a very good job and have come up with a lot of important initiatives, whether or not on the whole topic of teacher growth, as well as on the topic of Estonian-language learning and the development of the Estonian language. So, no, I think they're doing a really good job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U233	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U234	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! My question concerns population policy in general. How do you see the population of foreign origin, both who we already have and who will arrive to us in the future as a result of immigration? Are they primarily a labour force and a mass of consumers, or do they also have the right to nationality, their nationality and religious affiliation with all the consequences that accepting these facts would mean for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U235	Yes, I think that every person who comes to work in Estonia comes here for a long time to live or work, it is important that he respects local culture and local rules. Of course, no person can be taken away or asked to be taken away, and this should not be done in terms of his or her cultural background and beliefs. But as long as he accepts the local rules and understands them, I think all these people are welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U236	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U237	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have highlighted the need to save money and make more effective use of money as one of the main reasons for the initiative of the initiators. In this case, did the initiators not consider the possibility of rethinking and restructuring the permanent committees? Join, for example, the Committee on the Environment and Rural Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on National Defence, where the volume of drafts is historically relatively modest, and specifically more focus on problem committees in order to flexibly form them according to needs and circumstances. In this way, we would save significantly more money and be more flexible and able to respond more topically to the problems actually happening in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U238	No, it has not been discussed by the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U239	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U240	Thank you. Good Mart! The point of my question was elsewhere. We have two problem committees in the Riigikogu today. You lose one and you don't lose the other. One thing you will lose with the argument that the main committee will be able to do this work more effectively would be better. You're leaving the other one. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U241	We're really gonna leave the other one, and we're gonna increase it. And if you look at the outcome of this work again, also within this Riigikogu, unlike the population problem committee, the Estonian Language Commission has addressed various proposals to the Ministry, which is where substantive proposals can be identified. Yes, the decision to set up both committees states that the report on its work is only coming at the end of its term, but it is still considered necessary to make proposals and propose solutions in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U242	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U243	Thank you. Good Mart, your claim that the birth rate in Estonia is positive is truly sensational, but also completely incompetent. Those who make such claims should not deal with these issues at all, and they should not lose the respective committees of concern. Our birth rate is below recovery. Only immigration and the share of persons of foreign origin in Estonia will grow. You said all these committees and ministries are working on this thing, they have the capacity. But this ability is of no use unless these things are essentially dealt with. It's just wasted time and lost opportunities. The explanatory memorandum states that the aim of the state is to cut public spending. I'm sorry! God, help me! Instead, the aim of the state is to preserve the Estonian language, culture and nationality as laid down in the Constitution. Are you really willing to sell the basic and the right purpose for this little shekel?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U244	Thank you. First of all, I am still quoting the "development plan for the population and a coherent society 2021 to 2030," which states that the natural lives of Estonians have been temporarily positive for the last two years, +348 people. Maybe if I trust this D.O.D. I'm not lost. I took it clean from there. But as I said, we are not saying that the population problem should not be addressed, we are simply saying that it can be dealt with more effectively in the Riigikogu's Social Committee, the Committee on Culture, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, or in the respective ministries, and in the Riigikogu's permanent committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U245	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U246	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I will ask you the same question I have already asked the Minister of the Interior, but there was no answer. In recent years, the balance of immigration has been positive. In this context, can you tell us how much the number of people who identify themselves as Estonians has decreased in Estonia over the last three years? And can you tell me if the same trend continues, how long will it take until we reach the historic low point again, which we had in 1989 during the last Soviet census, when only 62% of Estonians were left in Estonia? This situation at the time was essentially catastrophic. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U247	Please specify, I did not understand whether I had to predict the future, I somehow lost the question. I would ask you to specify specifically what this question was.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U248	Please get the microphone back to Leo Kunnas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U249	There were two parts to the question. First of all, I asked if you could tell me how much the percentage of people who identify themselves as Estonians has decreased in Estonia over the last three years. And the second question was whether you could predict from this trend, how long it would take for us to return to the demographic low point, which we had in 1989, which was 62% of the total population, then the population of the ESSR at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U250	Unfortunately, I don't know the percentage and the prognosis, so I guess we can ask for it if we need it. I don't have that information right now, and I'm not gonna give it a shot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U251	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U252	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, I would like to introduce you to the draft. Well, I have to admit, you're making completely incompetent views. Priit Sibul has already rejected your argument as to how the Social Affairs Committee deals with population issues. It doesn't! I am closely associated with the Committee on Culture because my husband works there. My question to you is: but please mention some drafts, some initiatives, some issues that have been addressed, even in the last year, in the Committee on Culture, in the context of population problems. And even before there was no committee. I can say no to you. This number is zero, none of which have been dealt with. So talk about how they do better there, well, I'm sorry, it's just not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U253	However, unfortunately, no drafts have come from the Committee on Trouble with the Population Crisis, and in my opinion, apart from the state budget, perhaps 'Estonia 2035', if any, the drafts have not been dealt with there either. All the more reason for concern is that the Commission, which should deal with it, has not actually dealt with drafts and has not come up with any initiative. As far as the work of the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Culture is concerned, I do not have any preparation for all the drafts that have been dealt with, in so far as this is not directly related to the procedure of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U254	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to come back to the subject raised by Kalvi Tough. I still do not understand the difference between these two committees. You claim that the Estonian Language Development Commission works more effectively and better. I checked the protocols. The Estonian Language Commission has gathered once in January to decide that it will meet again in February. A meeting took place in February to decide who would be the new chairman and to be re-convened when the Commission's membership would be increased. At the same time, the People's Committee was able to discuss the Family Benefits Act and the issue of the census. Well, there hasn't been much more gathering than the Estonian Language Commission. Where is your logic? Why does one Commission have to continue and the other one does not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U256	I was just looking at what's been the output of the job. Does the number of meetings directly indicate this output? Yes, it must be acknowledged that both Commissions have rather had such hearings. However, the Estonian Language Problem Committee has at least made certain initiatives and proposals to the Ministry on improving substantive work and Estonian language learning. My comparison so-called "divided" to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U257	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U258	Thank you. Good Mart! This is indeed a Kafka situation that we are dealing with now at 3:00 a.m. in the epicentre of the corona disaster in Europe in order to shut down the Committee on the Population Crisis. This is the most acute crisis relief measure! Mart, I would ask you what population scientists the initiators consulted on this draft. Secondly, is the share of Estonians in Estonia now increasing or decreasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U259	Thank you. This statement sounds pretty good here tonight, and already during the night, why we are dealing with the issues that we are dealing with in the corona crisis. The Riigikogu is doing its job! And the fact that the bill has been initiated and has come to this day, that this day has been so long, is not a problem with the draft or the draft. If the Riigikogu has the agenda that it has confirmed and the work that it wants to do, it will. But no, as the initiator of the bill, I have not consulted with population scientists. The second question about this number is that I do not have that knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U260	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U261	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Mart! I'm listening here, you're constantly using the words 'alternative committees' about standing committees. Could the reason why you want to eliminate the committee we are talking about at this point be that you feel that there is no way of losing always the committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U262	No, absolutely not. And I'm sorry, if I'm wrong about the concept, I still mean permanent committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U263	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! It bothered me that when you talk about the problem committee on the population crisis and his duties, you used a description of the process like dealing with. Would it be possible to describe more precisely what these objectives will now be? As you said, this task is being distributed among our committees and ministries. What are their goals now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U265	Yeah. I am not going to give these goals, but these committees, ministries and ministers and the government are going to set their own goals. But now, back to the last question, the Supreme. In the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, I looked up the permanent committees, i.e. I was still not wrong with this concept.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U266	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said that the reason why this Commission should be put to an end is because of financial savings. Does this mean that this coalition does not intend to form a new Commission in its place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U268	First of all, I say that financial savings are part of this, but above all, the idea is that we do not duplicate activities. We have other committees or ministries to deal with this problem, and we can work effectively there. Financial savings will come with this. As regards whether there are plans to carry out problem committees, they are not planned at the moment. It was only this week that we discussed an initiative to set up a Committee on Problems in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and we did not support it either. So there is no plan today to make new problem committees. It is clear that if there is something extraordinary that needs it, we must discuss it in Parliament, but today we do not have that knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U269	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U270	Thank you. The answer to the previous question now posed the following question: but who, then, holds this whole issue of population and who holds the division of tasks? I got a little confused about this thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U271	In the Riigikogu, this is primarily the task of the Social Affairs Committee and the Committee on Culture to that end. And at ministry level, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, who, as I say, has begun and is preparing a development plan for the population and a coherent society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U272	Good waitress! No more questions for you. We can go to the co-report and this will be done by Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Good Thomas, please check the microphone! Thomas, please check the microphone! Thomas, we can't hear you right now. Good Thomas, we can't hear you right now. I don't think he can hear us either. I'll take a break and call Mr. Stone Mountain. We saw he existed, but we've just got a technical problem. Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U273	All right, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Any word?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U274	Yeah, I hear that, but we're still waiting, Toomas, 30 seconds, I took two minutes' break, so let's just wait two minutes' time. But be nice and spread. I only signaled for a moment, two minutes are full, Toomas Kivimägi has nicely joined us now with both voice and picture. Please, Toomas Stone Mountain!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U275	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 23 February inclusive. All members of the Commission took part. The Mart Võrguship made a presentation on behalf of the parties to the decision. Since Mart has just introduced these views very thoroughly in the large Chamber, I am not going to repeat what he has said here. In the round of questions, one of the most important issues that Kalle Grünthal asked in this Chamber was that it was still significant savings, and that was answered by Mart Võrguship at the meeting of the Commission that it was EUR 100000. It's been going on for a year. If this committee is closed for half a year, of course it will not be savings in this amount this year, but I think it is more important how much is the sum of a single Commission cost in one year, and that is EUR 100000. Of this, roughly three quarters are personnel costs, and 20 to 25% are other costs. Mr Puustusmaa then mentioned that he was convinced that the Committee on Problems was not redundant, and he suggested that the chairman of this Committee on Problems be invited to provide explanations to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Kalle Grünthal also supported the possibility to come forward with these explanations. However, since the committee meeting had already been convened and the chairman of the committee had not been invited, it was not considered necessary to realise it. Urmas Reinsalu was concerned about [one topic]. He did agree with the position of the chairman of the committee, which Toomas Kivimägi had previously said that the draft had not been submitted to the slightest extent in view of one or the other particular person who headed the committee or who belonged to it. This was actually confirmed by Urmas Reinsalu at the committee meeting and agreed that there was nothing personal in this proposal. But Urmas Reinsalu raised an even bigger issue and problem, mentioning it as an ideological choice. Subsequently, the Commission finally took procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 March. The decision was in favour of 5, 3 against and 1 abstention. Secondly, to propose the termination of the first reading, in favour of 5, against 3, with 1 abstention. Thirdly, to propose a deadline of 24 March 2021 for the submission of amendments. The decision was consensual. And we also had competition for a waitress's seat, namely between Toomas Kivimägi and Kalle Grünthali, and Toomas Kivimägi's side was 6 and there were 3 members of the Commission against him. That was the end of those decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U276	Thank you. There are questions for you, though. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U277	Thank you very much. I have this question: is the Commission now planning to invite someone to the Commission, before the second reading, to take stock of the benefits or inefficiencies of the Committee on Populations, or is there no intention of inviting anyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U278	Thank you, Paul! If, after all, the Members of the Commission consider this to be very important, of course, I am prepared to invite the people you want to be there in preparation for the second reading. Of course, not dozens of people, but those you mentioned, I am open to participation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when we prepare this draft decision for second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U279	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U280	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! As a rule, we have one of the most competent in this area to introduce the draft is very familiar with the specific draft. We have now learned that population scientists have not been consulted, negotiated or asked for an opinion. Whether the share of Estonians is decreasing or increasing in the Estonian population, the rapporteur did not have this orientation either. The rapporteur said that one of the reasons for the Commission's liquidation was that there would be no drafts from the Commission. As Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and as a lawyer, can you tell us what committees, in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act, we can even propose laws? Perhaps you will enlighten us on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U281	Thank you, Helir, for this question. The key question is, however, not to duplicate. A colleague just mentioned in the last round of questions that we have too many people dealing with demographic issues, and then, like no one, is responsible for anything. This is indeed one reason to reduce duplication. And I seriously believe that the formation of such problem committees or special committees is, in a sense, a distrust to permanent committees. I am absolutely convinced that both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Culture have competence, they have competence, they have the capacity to deal with these issues. If you ask whether they have dealt with this, of course they have not dealt with it because a separate committee of inquiry has been carried out for this. So it is perfectly natural and understandable that in this case they expect the same Commission to do. So, in this sense, I do not, in the slightest, distrust Aadu Black or Siret Kotka, who presides over the two committees that are most exposed to the issues of the population, nor doubt that they will be able to deal with these issues. So it is like a Pharisee trying to argue, just as the Riigikogu no longer deals with these topics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U282	Helir, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U283	Yeah, I have a procedural question. I heard from the initiators' waitress that one of the reasons for the Commission's liquidation is that no drafts are submitted. And now I didn't get a reply from the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so what about their submission of draft laws? What does the Home and Rules of Procedure Act say? Does the Trouble Committee have the right to initiate draft laws or not? What's the code of conduct? Can the manager possibly say anything about that? The hall was told that the reason is that no drafts have been initiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U284	Thank you for that question. It wasn't procedural, it was quite a question of substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U285	There was no discussion of this, good Helir, at the committee meeting, and I think that at 3:00 a.m. the Riigikogu will not have to read and explain its rules of procedure. I think you have a chance to do it yourself, so in that sense, I think that the question is completely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U286	However, since Mr Heliri's question was also for the Bureau, I believe that, being a member of the Bureau himself, Helir knows that the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure speak of the Commission's right to initiate drafts, regardless of whether they are a problem, investigative or permanent committee or a special committee, they all have the right to initiate drafts. With this, we have passed this procedural question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, is it procedural?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U287	Yes, I do have a procedure, because it is, in fact, misleading for the ambassadors if they want to form a position and they say, 'Why is the Commission being wound up', that there are no drafts submitted? It doesn't matter if it's 3:00 a.m. or if it's 2:00 a.m. during the day. They must not be misled by misinformation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U288	It wasn't procedural, it was more of a line. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Good Thomas! I'm going to ask you a very familiar question. What problem will you solve by eliminating this committee? Please explain this to me!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U290	Thank you, Kert! In fact, I believe you have noticed this before that the Reform Party has almost always opposed the formation of committees of inquiry and concern. Firstly, for the very simple reason that it is up to the permanent committees to deal with these issues. Secondly, I am seriously very surprised, not in your case, Kert, in this case such a general attitude that when we talk about cost savings, it must definitely not concern the Riigikogu, we do not have to deal with it, we can spend, our ability to pay fines, it is not a problem. I think that this amount is really not too high, that EUR 100000, which is savings in one year, but it is also considerable money. And in that sense, I think we'll set an example for others if we stick together. Previously, it was also said that when it was thought that we were going to form a new Commission, indeed, at the last session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs there was one draft decision to initiate a new Commission, and surprisingly surprisingly, the EKRE also very warmly supported the formation of this committee. We are basically of the opinion that there is not much need for these committees, these temporary committees or special committees, the committees of inquiry and the committees of concern. And I think that if there was also a question of a problem committee in the Estonian language, perhaps in two years' time, when a new Riigikogu will come, at least my opinion and my proposal to my group, in case I should be in the Riigikogu, it is that this committee is no longer needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U291	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U292	Thank you. I must say, of course, that I am not talking about Toomas Kivimägi, who has given an overview of what was going on in the Commission, and that there is a great deal of incomprehension in relation to the whole issue. However, I dare say that demographic and population issues are very specific issues. And in the various committees with the left hand, there is no way to go about it or anything. Riina Solman, Minister of Population, was my good partner at the Ministry of the Interior. And I can't say he didn't have his hands full. He was very determined and systematic in dealing with these issues, along with his team and officials. Regrettably, the fruits of his work were simply cut off by the liquidation of this ministerial position. The same will now be done with the Commission. I see a pattern here, and I see a pattern here that is very worrying. And that is why I would advise the initiators to withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U293	Thanks, Mart! I repeat what I said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and here in my little introduction. I say that there is absolutely nothing personal here, either at the address of the chairman of the committee or at the address of the EMER. Absolutely not! Indeed, I have said this before, too, that Urmas Reinsalu, who is also very critical of the abolition of this committee, also admitted that there is nothing personal here. So, Mart, that's not a question at all. A hundred percent agree with you that this does not mean that the population problems are solved. Far from it! Far from it, we still have a long way to go. But we could just pick out another maybe seven or eight major problems that would require separate committees of inquiry or problem. Well, in that case, all that logic goes wrong. Then one day, the question arises as to why we need these permanent committees at all when we set up a committee of concern or a committee of inquiry for each issue separately. So I sincerely ask you to believe that there is nothing personal here at all. Absolutely nothing personal. Indeed, there is a avoidance of duplication. On the other hand, we trust both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Culture. And I don't deny that small savings, that 100,000 a year, are still considerable money, which means savings. And maybe it's more of a character, a little bit of an example. I say 'precisely', as I said, it is my personal opinion that I think that in two years' time, at least for my group, when I am elected to the Riigikogu, I propose that this committee be abolished. Always committees must be able to do this work. And, of course, if there is any additional workforce needed in the form of one or another Commission staff, then more people must be put there. But otherwise, these problems will fall between the two committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U294	Urmas Reinsalu, please1
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U295	Thank you. I agree with Thomas, and that is what I said at the committee meeting. The idea that, of course, it is not a personnel policy decision at the meeting of the Commission, but is a systematic proposal by the Reform Party to clean up the Estonian state from these institutions that are in Estonia to defend the nation state. This is, of course, an ideological choice, not a human resources policy choice. But my question to you, Toomas, is whether the share of Estonians in the population is decreasing or increasing according to current trends in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U296	Thank you, Urmas! I certainly cannot agree with this, and I must contradict you that the Reform Party is certainly not dealing with the abolition of the institutions that are involved in defending Estonia as a nation state. Absolutely the opposite! I'd like to say they make a little bit of an elephant out of a mosquito. I admit and say again that these problems are, these problems need to be addressed, we still have a long way to go there, we may have decades to deal with it, but it still does not base itself on the existence of one of these separate committees of concern. And, indeed, I say that for four years this Committee on the Population Crisis has had time to deal with these issues. Four years, I think, is enough time to make suggestions. It is not the Committee of Inquiry, the Committee on Trouble with the Population Crisis itself that deals directly with finding solutions, but it is, in my opinion, its task, on the one hand, to monitor what the government, the executive, has done and, on the other hand, to give input to the executive. And I think it's four years long enough to give certain inputs. I think it's been a chance. If it's been effective, maybe I'm not the best judge on this. I think that this is a long enough time to put forward its proposals in order to shape its position on the activities of the executive on this very subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U297	With this, we have exhausted the questions and we can go to the negotiations. Urmas Reinsalu has requested the floor first on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U298	I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U299	Please, three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U300	What we are dealing with here is absolutely embarrassing nonsense, and the proposal of the Isamaa Group is to reject this draft decision. Firstly, we strongly condemn the fact that it is born behind the back of population scientists. Population scientists, of course, are not deliberately involved in this initiative, although population scientists were involved in the creation of a demographic crisis committee. And what I said about the fact that the removal from the institutions that deal with the sustainability of the nation state has become systemic is, after all, the fact that at the same time the position of Minister of Population was lost. The purpose of all these institutions is to deal with the so-called horizontal holistic view that the Estonian people will last, that Estonia will continue as a nation state. It is said here that there has been no proposal in a few years. My dear men! The Reform Party is now acting like Bonacieux, a trader from the Three Musketeers, with some kind of coin. Over a hundred years, researchers from population processes are active and must act as a state if it wants to remain a nation state. In 2100, according to the Human Development Report, 800,000 people live in Estonia as trends continue. These are dynamics that we need to consider. Unfortunately, according to current trends, the share of Estonians in Estonia is quietly but still decreasing. Now, if you ask me what this motive really is. Of course, this is not about EUR 100000, because neither will the Riigikogu budget be reduced by that amount. This resource is still needed and was not denied by the initiator of the draft. But the question is what is the reason why it is precisely the committee that wants to be wound up. But very simple, it also sounded through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in session, and Thomas clearly did not want to point it out. Indeed, if the government operates the population processes above all as a labour resource, it does not, of course, want to have a parliamentary supervisory body in Parliament dealing with this issue, together with experts, which supervises the government. That is precisely why this Commission must be put to an end, and this reasoning also came up very clearly under the Commission's 'cross-examination'. I have a special feeling about this committee because, in my time, in the coalition before, it was my proposal to set up this committee, and I am extremely sorry that, in phenomena such as population processes, we are breaking up this parliamentary know-how and the environment enabling political dialogue. By slices, if you take things, there's no idea. This is, to put it mildly, a good idea to imagine that a committee in the field would replace it, because population processes are actually running vertically through migration, talent, education and family policies, birth rates, migration processes, public health. I categorically disagree with this criticism, as if this committee had not worked. That was the ironic criticism of Siret Kotka's activities during the previous term. I took out a report on the Commission's activities during Siret Eagle. "Principles of national policy 2035" draft. This circle of topics dealt with is extremely intense and voluminous. I think there was a new alertness for our population scientists to deal with processes. I am certainly not going to criticise in any way in today's Parliament the way in which one of the Commission's work has been done or organised. Of course, Parliament's political groups themselves have sent all their representatives there, and this work has been organised on the basis of a better recognition of what these committees have considered to be right. The principle is very simple: the question of whether we are based on the fact that Estonia is a nation state and we really want to control population processes, or we say that this is not the category in which we should operate in the country, that we are cleaning up our regime and the governance of the state from these national rudiments and institutions. If this approach is to be taken as a basis, both steps will, of course, be understood, both in the abolition of the position of Minister of Population and in the abolition of the Committee on Trouble with the Population Crisis. The Fatherland disagrees with this and votes against this draft decision. This is the awkward shit we're dealing with here at 5:30 in the middle of a coronal disaster right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U301	Next on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U302	Good manager! Good morning, colleagues. I've been dealing with animals. Among the lions is that the new leader of the pack will first kill his ancestors' puppies. The reason is very simple: you have to get rid of strange genes as soon as possible, then you can make your own seed work. And people actually do the same thing, even when they don't have a tail and they wear hats and clothes. Kaja Kallas, the leader of the newly in power Reform Party, acted in exactly the same way. The first thing he decided to do was kill the child of his predecessor, Jüri Ratas. In fact, in this house, it is quite clear who has been in the longer term that the Special Committee on the Population Crisis is the child of Jüri Ratas. In fact, it started in 2016, when Jüri's father Rein called an Estonian population support group here. And after Jüri Ratas came to power, the first thing was to set up a problem committee to resolve the population crisis. In the coalition agreements at the time for both Ratas governments, demographic issues were crucial and were first boldly listed in the coalition agreement. The Commission was set up four years ago, on 14 February 2017. The new government coalition considers it its most important task to take measures to increase population numbers, declared by the then leader of the political group, the leader of the Central Party Group, Kersti Sarapuu. Henn Põllaas said at the time: "I am very pleased that the sentence of the Preamble of the Constitution has been written into the decision to establish this committee: Estonia was created to preserve Estonian language, culture and nation throughout the ages. This is extremely important, and this is the most important goal of our entire country's existence and existence." As was the sign of the creation of a special committee in Parliament, it is also a sign of its current liquidation. And in a situation that hasn't gotten any better. The closure of schools, shops, pharmacies, the loss of rural municipalities are just a few manifestations of the crisis. Two notable articles were published in 2005: one was Rein Taagepera's "Demographic toilet" and the other was Siim Kallas's "The Tragedy of the World of Lasteta." The Mart Võrguship, who introduced this bill, admitted that he had never heard of it, not to mention reading their honorary essay. "It is necessary to give up the tricks of bypassing and to admit that the survival of the Estonian people is now in the same danger as ever during the Soviet occupation after the cessation of the grand deportation," wrote Taagepera 2005. It takes determination to believe that we can if we want to eliminate this situation. Siim Kallas recalled in his essay at the time of his essay in 2005 the heated debates on whether it would be worthwhile getting children into modern society. There was an actress, said Siim Kallas, whose reasoning was as follows. Worried children and you will always be worried about them: will they not get hurt in road accidents, will they come back from a ski trip with healthy bones, will go bankrupt, and will need your help? And so on. You're a politician and you're worried about whether or not what's happening around you could damage your children's actions, Siim Kallas wrote. In short, if there are no children, there are much less concerns. But Siim Kallas said that his position was the opposite, was then and was also then. You might think differently, Siim Kallas wrote, a world without children is a tragedy in old age. We are still struggling today between the bottom of the demographic toilet and the pipe entering the collector of eternity. We Estonians are born less and less, more and more die. This, however, increases the difficulty of coping as a nation state and forces us to open the gates to foreign workers with force majeure. This is very important, for no land will be empty for long. Every year, 70 to 80 million new people are born in the world, and the surplus is looking for a place to live.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U303	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U304	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U305	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U306	The need for immigrants depends on how many children we have. Mart Võrguship, maybe he is not familiar with this; in 2005, 14350 children were born in Estonia. There were many fewer Estonians. In 2019, 14099 children were born even less and Estonians were born even less. Of course, children are born out of love. It is not for the state to make children; it is for the state to create the best possible conditions for obtaining and raising them. Prime Minister Kallas said that the tasks of institutions dealing with population problems can be divided in peace between different ministries and committees is not adequate. If there are no structures that deal with acute problems day by day and if there is no specific liability, the focus will be lost. Everybody's got a zillion jobs to do anyway. And each additional 1000 children per year changes the prospects of Estonian language and culture. The irony lies in the fact that, while the Kaja Kallas government decided to liquidate the Minister for Population and the Commission, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, the former German Minister for the Family, even established a separate vice-president of demography in the European Commission. But we'll come back to today. Political logic is vulgarly simple. I spoke to George Ratas. After gaining power, Kaja Kallas and Mailis Reps shared sausages. One sausage, a special commission for us, one for you. Reps wanted an Estonian Language Teaching Commission. Kaja Kallas said that the Commission does not want to deal with the population crisis. And two women had settled it. Four years ago, my good penguiner, Henn Põlluaas, said: by setting up a population problem committee, we give a new hope to the Estonian people. Today, by eliminating the Commission, Kaja Kallas is taking away this hope. The EKRE Group does not agree that the government of Kaja Kallas wants to eliminate the problem committee on the population crisis. And our proposal is to reject bill 338. This submission has also been submitted electronically. By the way, not all members of the Reform Party agree at all as their leader. Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus was one of those who voted in favour of this committee four years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U307	On behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group Siret Kotka, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U308	Hi! Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U309	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U310	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! For the Centre Party, the survival of the Estonian population is very important. As current trends continue, the number of Estonian population will decrease in the longer term. Even if we are able to increase the productivity of our economy and maintain our standard of living in this population, we are still facing major changes. I was chairman of a problem committee for resolving the population crisis in the previous Riigikogu and I believe that we were able to raise a number of problems in society that were not even reflected before. Personally, I am deeply sorry that this committee is finishing its work. However, the Estonian population and the social sector are very closely linked, and as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I intend to raise questions about the development and health of the Estonian population through the Social Affairs Committee. The Estonian population will not be hidden in the Riigikogu. Let us be honest that today's Social Affairs Councilers largely supported and served the Committee on Problems, which means that the knowledge and experience gained will remain. I bring out some ideas that should be developed. First of all, raising the birth rate is based on the belief that, unlike many other dying nations, Estonian people still want to have children. It is therefore our task to reduce the difference between the number of children we want and the number of children actually born. This does not just mean saving families from poverty on a need-based basis, but creating the best environment for those who would like to become mothers and fathers by means of universal measures. These measures include housing support, flexible and close-home childcare, child support, which is progressing with the number of children and increasing the participation of both parents. Secondly, when we talk about mortality, we have formulated the main objective of increasing the number of healthy years of life. Perhaps there is also a need to introduce and continue to support a number of measures where one of the major challenges is to increase the mental health and psychological well-being of the public. It is quite safe to say that the cause of death in Estonia is the wrong decisions of people themselves: overeating and drinking, excessive use of all kinds of drugs, lack of exercise, stress, depression, road deaths, suicides and overdoses, which are clearly at the forefront of European countries. All of these are primarily symptoms of mental processes. We need to help people reach better, less damaging decisions for themselves. Thirdly, it is quite clear that in today's world, people are moving more and more across national borders. We know that hundreds of thousands of compatriots live outside Estonia. Our aim must be to maintain diverse ties with people living outside Estonia. Fourthly, for our country, all people living in Estonia must be important, regardless of their native language. There are many among us who were born in Estonia and whose native language is Russian. I do not think it is right for us to show them a condescending attitude, as our President recently did. By understanding and caring, we can achieve more together. The survival of the Estonian population is important for the Centre Party and we intend to continue to defend the population's bottlenecks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U311	Tarmo Kruusimäe, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U312	Yes, thank you, good vice chairman. If we've set some standards here at remote sessions, yes, I understand that and I admit that maybe the ladies don't look good at 4:00 in the morning, then we could still have eight minutes or five minutes [on screen]. If we only had a problem here six or seven hours ago, if we didn't see a picture of the ambassadors, now we've already devalued it, and basically it's become like a radio session for the people who are watching this session. If we have established some standards and we start with these standards, then we could go to the end of those same standards. Otherwise, we will set a precedent that, at tomorrow's long-distance session or today's, ambassadors, if they don't want to show their own picture, can stick something else on the screen and say that I have a problem, I don't want to. I would ask the Bureau to discuss this. If there are any standards, it's for everyone, whether it's night or not. A member of the Riigikogu is a member of the Riigikogu 24/7.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U313	Thank you. In this sense, I agree with you, and I have said this earlier, under the leadership of the sitting, and pointed it out, that it would be very nice if everyone who participates in the distance, respecting the rapporteurs in questioning or speaking, would use the camera. So, in this sense, the comment is appropriate and indeed, ladies and gentlemen, if we switch to this hall with remote participation, then this switch will also go public on the web, so please also use video if possible. Toomas Kivimägi, on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In a few words, for my part, without coordinating with the Reform Party Group. There is a strong impression that the key issue to resolving the population crisis, or such golden keys, is the preservation of the committee of concern. Well, come on, then, it would be really easy if the Trouble Committee stayed, it would be very good. In my opinion, that is not the case. I say once again that with this same committee of problems, we are still marginalising 101 members of the Riigikogu, we are also marginalising the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Culture. I sincerely want to thank Mr Eagle for his speech. Ladies and gentlemen of the EKRE and the Fatherland! If in two years you trusted Siret Eagle to lead the Demographic Crisis Problem Committee, why are you suddenly distrusting him as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee? All the more so when he has just said that he has taken these matters into his heart. Then why are you mistrusting him now? For two years, you found Siret Eagle to be perfectly capable of handling the problem committee of the population crisis. And now you suddenly find that Siret, as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, cannot do this. Moreover, as I said, Siret has just assured you all that he will take this matter to heart, and we do not need to doubt that these issues will be of great importance throughout the work of the Social Committee. More. Estonia is, of course, a parliamentary republic. However, I think that no one can deny the prevalisation of executive power. Whether it's right or not, it's a matter of its own. Peeter Ernits also pointed out that the Riigikogu could initiate more drafts itself, but de facto 95% of the drafts are initiated by the Government of the Republic. So in this sense, let us not create too much illusion that we, as Parliament, will be able to solve this problem, and especially with the help of this committee of problems alone. After all, such a greater role and responsibility lies with the executive. I fully agree that such inputs must be provided by us, but let's say, finding these solutions is actually the task of the executive. And perhaps, to conclude this, once again: I sincerely ask that you believe that there is absolutely nothing personal here against Peeter Ernits, the EKRE or any member of the problem committee of the population crisis. There is no question of that at all. Rather, the question really is, which Helir also raised, that perhaps we need to look at the distribution of permanent committees at all, to add something, to subtract something, perhaps to make these burdens more comparable. But in this case, to say that this is now the most important thing that ensures that we solve all the population problems, well, it's actually a little bit of an illusion. Indeed, there has been four years, however, to give these inputs to the government. And certainly there is no reason for the government to fear this supervision either, because I think that these supervisory acts or these summaries have been nothing terrible about the government either. So we have nothing to fear. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason to frighten the Estonian people either that, figuratively speaking from tomorrow, population problems will no longer be dealt with. There's as much work as it's done so far and more. Thank you. I call for this bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U315	Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U316	For the sake of the Steinogram: so that people do not have the opinion that only the Social Affairs Committee and the Committee on Culture are dealing with the Estonian population, but still all the committees. At this point in time, there may be a strange impression that the rest of the committees would only have financial services.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U317	It wasn't procedural in terms of content, but now it's said. We have finished the negotiations, we can go to the proposal of the lead committee, which is to conclude the first reading. But we have received two proposals to reject the draft at first reading. More specifically, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa have both made the same proposal, and that is what we must vote through. Honourable Riigikogu, I put to the vote before you a proposal by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Isamaa Group to reject the proposal 338 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U318	The proposal was voted in favour of 28 and against 39 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. We have completed the first reading of Bill 338. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments by one day later than today's date, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 25 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U319	Today's 14th item is the number 335 of the draft decision of the Riigikogu of the Riigikogu on "Construction of the Problem Committee on the Development of the Estonian Language" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The initiators will present a report from the Mart Võrguship. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U320	Also on 15 February, on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party and the Estonian Centre Party Group, I submitted a draft amendment to the Riigikogu's decision "Construction of the Problem Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning." On 30 May 2019, the problem committee for the development of Estonian language learning established by the decision of the Riigikogu has been formed on the principle that one member of the committee belongs to each political group. The purpose of this draft is to amend the principle of the composition of the Commission and to establish it on the basis of the principle of proportionality in the future. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, the establishment of a commission would be similar to the principle of establishing permanent committees of the Riigikogu and would also ensure the representation of members of the Riigikogu in the Committee of Problems, in the same way as the composition of the Riigikogu, therefore according to the will of the elector. It is also important to follow the practice and principle that the current Riigikogu has chosen at the beginning of its membership with its organisation of work. The draft decision to set up a Trouble Committee on the Learning and Development of Estonian Language has been initiated by three of the five political groups represented in the Riigikogu at the beginning of the XIV Riigikogu, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa, who also formed a coalition. By assigning one member from each political group of the Commission, this choice and the decision also ensured the superiority of the members of the coalition within the committee. In changed circumstances, where two of the five political groups of the Riigikogu have formed a coalition, the principle of establishing a committee established by a Commission decision made in 2019 no longer ensures the representation of coalition and opposition members in the committee on the same principle. Thus, both the principle agreed at the beginning of this Riigikogu is that the majority of ambassadors on the committee of problems are justified and necessary to change the principles of its formation in order to ensure the effective organisation of the committee's work. Please support the bill! I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U321	Start Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U322	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Can you tell me how many Members are in the Commission now and how many Members will be in the future, as a result of the change you have made?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U323	Yeah, right now there's four members. If we determine the principle of proportionality by decision of the Riigikogu, it is up to the Riigikogu's board to decide whether or not to give this number.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U324	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U325	Thank you. Firstly, there are five political groups in the Riigikogu and, as far as I know, there should also be representatives of five political groups in the committee. What you're doing, Mart, is just humor. Now, where are the 100,000 euros savings and everything you said before? I do not know if you had any contact with the chairman of the committee, who was chairman, both when the committee was set up and now. Stalnukhin has led this Commission in such a way that there has never been a need to vote; it has been the form and method of this committee. What's going on right now is completely incomprehensible. And frankly, I was one of the main opponents of Mikhail, because a representative of the Reform Party Group was present during this two years, and I assume that I do not know too, if I say so, three times. Now there will be several representatives of the Reform Party. But since you know the exact numbers, I hope you can tell the rest of the Chamber how many times a representative of the Reform Party Group took part in this committee for two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U326	I know very well that there are five political groups in the Riigikogu. And that's what I said in my report. However, I did see on the Riigikogu website that there are currently four ambassadors, or one, missing. I am saying that if the Riigikogu website contains the correct data, then I am not wrong. Whether I do humor or not, it's up to everyone. I think I am talking about serious issues here, and I have also given reasons for my proposals. How has the Commission been elected? At the beginning of this composition, the coalition at the time decided that the majority in the Commission should belong to the coalition. Therefore, I still believe that the same composition cannot be the case that one opposition has fewer rights at one point and the other more. Perhaps when this choice is made at the beginning of the membership, it should also be so until the end of the membership. And to ensure this in the current situation, where we have two political groups in the coalition and three in the opposition, one solution is to do so on the basis of the principle of proportionality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U327	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U328	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Why don't you explain the difference between this parity and the proportionality principle and tell me what the proportionality principle of your choice is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U329	I didn't understand the question right now. Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U330	Would the questioner like to clarify his question? A microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U331	Thank you. Here, let's say, the principle of parity and proportionality is possible in the setting up of a committee. You have chosen the principle of proportionality. Why the principle of proportionality, but not the principle of parity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U332	But I explained this moment ago, both in my report and in my response to my colleague, Priit Sibula. At the beginning of this composition, the principle of parity has indeed been chosen. This means that one member has been elected from each political group. Since there were then three coalitions out of five political groups, the principle of a majority of the coalition members in the committee was valid among the members of the committee. In the current situation, where the coalition is made up of two political groups of the Riigikogu, it is not possible to guarantee, in accordance with the principle of parity, a situation where the coalition has a predominance within the Commission. However, since it is reasonable to respect this principle, since this was the choice at the beginning of the current membership, another way must be found to ensure it. To this end, the principle of proportionality is appropriate, on the basis of which it is possible to ensure in the Commission the same relationship of 'powers' in the Chamber, which has been the will of the electorate, and which is also the principle of establishing permanent committees. That is why it is proposed to use the proportionality principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U333	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U334	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You're saying you're the initiator of the bill, but you can't tell us how many members are going to be on this committee. I'll make your life easier. Will there be seven or ten members on this committee? Seven members or ten members? Seven members or ten members? You're the initiator of this bill, you're clear, you're thought through, you're done, you know everything in your sleep. Seven members or ten members? I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U335	I, however, follow the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The Riigikogu can confirm the principle by its decision, and the board will then determine according to the principle how many members of the committee will belong to the committee. Maybe I can't say that number for the board right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U336	Would Eduard Odines like to ask a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U337	Yeah, I guess so. I'd like to help my colleagues. If you look at the minutes of this committee on 15 February, it becomes clear: the chairman announced that two members would be added.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U338	Peter Ernits, is it a procedural or a common question? I can't hear you right now. Please check the microphone! We ask Peeter to restore the browser, he was in this room in the meantime, and now we probably need to refresh it again. That's how long we'll take Mart Helme's question. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U339	Yeah. I think the honourable author is completely on the wrong track. The fact that the coalition had an advantage during the previous government was not a result of the coalition's excess par excellence, but of the fact that there were three parties in the coalition, but of all the political groups there was one representative. And where is it written in Roman law that there must necessarily be a predominance of the coalition? I don't know that such a thing would have been written down somewhere. This is the fabrication of the current coalition. If all political groups are represented by one member, it is already dependent on how many members are in the coalition, whether or not there is an excess of the coalition. Parity is not about the predominance of coalition, it is about parite representation. And this has basically been good practice in the Riigikogu so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U340	Yeah. Well, I never once claimed that parity should somehow mean that there should be an excess of coalition. I say this: at the beginning of this composition, the coalition has decided that there is a majority of the coalition in the Committee on Problems, because when it is determined on the basis of parity, the coalition has gained an advantage. Now that the situation has changed, it should be ensured that the opposition that was before, and the current opposition or coalition, depends on which should we look at the equal situation. And therefore, in view of the principle of parity, this cannot be done at the moment. Consequently, the principle of proportionality must be applied. If there is a question of where it is stated that a coalition must prevail or that it must be based on the principle of proportionality, then the answer could be: but where does it say that it must be based on the principle of parity? Both options are free options or any third option. It has not been prescribed; it is the right of the Riigikogu to organise itself. We have an opportunity to discuss this in this Chamber and to decide how we organise our work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U341	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U342	Thank you. So far, special committees have been set up in such a way that there has been one representative from each political group. That has been the reason why it has so far happened. You sound like Kaja Kallas's little parrot repeats that the previous coalition did so and that's why it has to be done now. Do it differently! And now the question. I read the coalition agreement, which states that you intend to make an action plan for the Estonian language. What role does the problem committee of the Estonian language play in drawing up this action plan or in other matters, and why does the coalition need to achieve a majority? What task have you invented in the coalition for this Commission as the initiator of the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U343	We are, Priit, ladies and gentlemen. And I don't know if it makes sense to go personal in a parliamentary debate. Your questions or statements today are going to be very personal. But now to the answer. This statement, as if we were using a reference, me and Kaja Kallas, to what the previous government did. We have heard that for 17 years the Reform Party has either always done something wrong or has not done anything at all. No, we do not use this reference, I am talking about the context in which decisions have been taken at the beginning of this composition, i.e. how the Riigikogu has decided at the beginning of its composition to exercise its right to self-order by setting up a committee of problems. And one comment: we are talking about the Committee on Problems, not the special committee you referred to. In fact, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has also made an overview of the rights of the opposition in parliamentary committees last October. It is very clear that this is Parliament's right of self-regulation. There is not much of this practice at all that there should certainly be an advantage for the opposition in special and problem committees. The main practice is that the opposition holds the lead on certain special committees. But we're not talking about special committees right now. Indeed, in the coalition agreement we have an Estonian language learning agenda. I think this is a very important point. And that is what we are planning to do in a very detailed way, along with the money numbers and with specific activities to stimulate education in Estonian in schools, to support students and to help and support staff. The role this Commission will play here, I cannot say now, it is still a matter between the Commission and the government. But I'm sure they're still talking about it and giving it their input.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U344	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U345	Thank you. It has been good practice in the Riigikogu throughout the ages, and should continue to do so. Changing the composition of the problem committee for the development of Estonian language learning so that the Reform Party and the Centre Party can prevail there, says that the coalition is planning some substantial changes in the study of Estonian language in all your steps, certainly not from the point of view of the preservation of the Estonian language, culture and nationality. I ask: what is the purpose of the Commission's work? Is it possible to support the creation of a single Estonian school or mixed schools and to weaken the position of the Estonian language in the shadow of deceptive and lying slogans?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U346	This is clearly a malicious question and an arbitrary conclusion. The chairman of the committee and the committee are still organising their own work. But as I said, the coalition agreement clearly states that we are developing an action plan for learning in Estonian, we are providing real tools for this, we support teachers, we support schoolkeepers, we support students and their parents, and we are still moving to ensure that education in Estonian is possible and guaranteed to all those who wish. Perhaps it is arbitrary to say otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U347	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U348	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm a little concerned that you can't answer some very simple questions. A good colleague, Tarmo Kruusimäe, twice asked you what the number is going to be, what the number of members of the Commission will be, whether seven or ten, but what you are talking about is some kind of priority and proportionality, etc. I'm going to ask you for the third time. Please state this number once again: the number of members are there in the Commission. Seven or ten? Or some other number?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U349	Thank you. I understand the question, I heard the question, and I have answered it twice. I also reply for the third time: our proposal in the current draft decision of the Riigikogu is to appoint members of the committee on the basis of proportionality. And how to fill this proportionality can be decided by the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U350	Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U351	Yeah, it used to be, but the mike was stuck. I wanted to say first to Tarmo Kruusimäe and now to my colleague, Kalle Grünthal, that it is not nice to hit a sled. Mart Võrguship is a nice man, but unfortunately, in the case of the drafts he's presenting here, he's not proficient either this way or that way. So please don't hit the langur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U352	Thank you. Well, that wasn't a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U353	I didn't hit a bachelorette. And once I've done that, please explain how.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U354	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U355	I'm protecting Marti. Mart's doing his job. And the question is, is this thing really reasonable? Now, there is just one information that I can make sense to pass on to Parliament. Mart is referring here to the fact that the coalition's vote was at the beginning of this Parliament's decision that it is precisely parity, but, in fact, according to my data, Mart can supplement, I looked at the Constitutional Committee's minutes, I think it was a consensus. The Commission even asked whether the Reform Party had any problem with this. There was a debate and they asked if there would be any proposals, but they did not come. Mart, can you tell me, since you've prepared correctly now, how was that? Was it the coalition's vote, or was this principle of parity agreed at the beginning of Parliament's membership in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U356	First of all, thank you for your good words and support. But unfortunately, I don't know how to answer that. I've prepared, but I haven't looked at that part, so I guess you're talking about the decision of 2019. But I think Parliament may have been united in this. In my opinion, there are two things to look at: on the basis of parity, the Commission has been set up, and the principle that it has achieved is that there is a majority of the coalition in the Commission. When the composition of the Riigikogu has decided at the beginning of its composition that the majority of the coalition is on the committee of problems, I think that this principle should be respected until the end of the composition. This is not the case at the moment, and this is why the principle of setting up a Commission needs to be changed in order to ensure that this second principle, which has been chosen for the organisation of work, is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U357	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U358	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! In 2015, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas was from the Reform Party. When a commission was set up to investigate corruption in the Port of Tallinn, there was one person from each group. My question is: what has changed now? The party's the same, the party's leaders are the other ones, but now maybe you're talking about the fact that there should actually be an excess of [the coalition] in the committee. After all, the corruption of your members was investigated at the Tallinn Port, but they still did not want to prevail.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U359	Nothing has changed in this sense. This decision-making power is exercised by each Riigikogu in the way it organises its work, and it is a purely domestic and operational activity. Each Riigikogu decides how it organises its work. I would also point out that it has been decided at the beginning of this membership: the coalition is in the hands of the coalition in the committees of concern and in the special committees. I think it is absolutely fair and reasonable to continue with this very principle until the end of the membership so that the organisation of work in this composition is similar and, regardless of who is currently in opposition or coalition, their rights are similarly guaranteed. Because otherwise there would be an unequal situation: one opposition has more rights at one point and the other less, in the same way, in the view of the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U360	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U361	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, that's not true. I would suggest that we do some statistics and make sure that there has been a partial representation of such special committees for generations. For generations! And now it would be very interesting to know which practices developed in the Riigikogu...... the new government. [[In the meantime, I can't hear you. I'm hacking up.]] A bit of fantasy: After the next Riigikogu elections, perhaps the Estonian Conservative People's Party will take 51 seats and decide that all committees will be manned only by its own people; others may be given one or two places by fingering them. So it's okay? You can't do that. Parliamentary culture still means that there is discussion, there is debate and there is a search for compromise, not a dictatorship. You're aiming for a dictatorship right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U362	Thank you. I was glad to hear that we are talking about dialogue. Unfortunately, it wasn't too much to see here three or four months ago. But that's it. Yes, the principle of parity has been used for a very long time, but it does not mean that it cannot be changed. This is Parliament's right of self-regulation and it is not at all contrary to any principle or law. Perhaps this may be the decision of Parliament. And I say again: at the beginning of this membership, a situation was created where the coalition holds the majority of these committees. I have a nice historical overview here. Let us say that there has really been parity, at least according to me, if we also take account of the current composition, in five, but at the same time there has been a balance in most of the committees since then, not an advantage of the coalition or opposition. The coalition's advantage is at least on the basis of the data that I have created at the beginning of this composition. Perhaps it has been a choice and a violation of practice if we want to say 'infringement', or a change of practice compared to the previous one. And that is what we wish to continue today. If there was now a question I hope it was a question, not a threat in any way, that if the EKRE takes 51 seats, then it will man all the committees with its own people, then I would still point out that we have the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures, which states, however, that the principle of proportionality and the logic of how many political groups have received seats in the Riigikogu must be observed in the permanent committees. Perhaps as many as one political group has received seats in the Riigikogu, so many seats must be held on permanent committees. I hope no one plans to go against the law. We still have the law in the Republic of Estonia to comply with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U363	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U364	Thank you very much. See, Mart, right now you've read things that are always about committees. But, well, always committees or special committees, these are still very different things. And here's the tradition we've had in the Riigikogu for a long time and what you want to ruin here. But my question is whether the change you are now planning has any impact on the Commission's budget. If so, what is the effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U365	First of all, I have said: I always mentioned the committees because I answered Mr Helme's question about the fact that if the EKRE had a plan after the next elections to man all the committees with its own people, it would simply not be possible by law. Now the cost. If there are only more members, I believe that this should not lead to more costs, because the staff serving the Commission will remain the same and the paid seats will be the chairman and vice-chairman. I'd like to think so. If I'm wrong, I can fix myself, but I think it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U366	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U367	Good manager! Good waitress! Mart Helme's question might as well be taken more broadly. Of course, you can't completely asphaltate, but the situation can get very complicated for at least many people when they're little represented. But my question is, if we now increase the manning in that committee, do you want to replace Mikhail Stalnukhin from there? Do you have anyone better to take the lead in teaching Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U368	I cannot comment on the re-election or replacement of the chairman of the committee at the moment. It is still up to the Members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U369	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U370	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Mart! We are talking here about special committees. I'm gonna ask you what your point of view is. Is the fact that the Chair of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities is a representative of the Coalition Party consistent with good practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U371	Thank you. We are talking about the Committee on Trouble at the moment, but we will also be able to talk about the special committees. As far as I am concerned about this chairman, this has been the case before. However, since this does not concern this draft, I would not comment on it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U372	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's keep going. I now request Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U373	The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft on Tuesday 23 February. The contents of the bill were introduced by Mart Võrguship, just as he did in this Chamber a moment ago, and I will not repeat his words again, it was the same on a large scale. Urmas Reinsalu and Kalle Grünthal have examined why the parliamentary practice so far is being changed and what is the broader aim of such a change. Urmas Reinsalu also pointed out that in the past these committees had been regarded as not so much legislative as monitoring committees, so it has not always been found that the coalition should necessarily have a numerical advantage. In response, Mart Võrguship explained that parliamentary history supports both methods of solution, either in such a way that each political group has one representative, or is proportional to the representation, stressing that this is the right of the Riigikogu to regulate itself how the membership of committees is appointed. This is our freedom and the freedom of every formation. Paul Puustusmaa considered that the coalition could consider leaving the control committees as opposition-dominated committees. In response, Mart Võrklaev said that this was already the choice of the original coalition of the composition of the Riigikogu, the Centre Party, the Fatherland and the EKRE, and then the problem was not seen to prevail over the coalition. Urmas Reinsalu drew attention to the fact that although formally this is not a precedent, it could still become such a precedent. In addition, it examined how large the committees would be if proportionality had been ensured. Mart Võrklaev explained in response that the competence for determining the size of the composition remains with the Board of the Riigikogu. Toomas Kivimägi agreed that customs and customs have value, but also in the past two years, certain practices were not followed, for example, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control or in the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption. At the same time Toomas Kivimägi agreed that issues concerning the composition of special committees should be discussed again in the wider circle. Kivimägi proposed sending 335 OE to the Plenary Assembly for first reading and then discussing the next three items without taking procedural decisions. The next items concerned the other special committees. Toomas Kivimägi stressed that not all special committees need to be organised in the same way. Kalle Grünthal proposed that procedural decisions be taken on none of the drafts, including the draft in question, and that they be sent to the body of elders for discussion and position. Toomas Kivimägi considered that the most sensible compromise would be to send 335 OE to first reading and, in the case of the rest of the drafts, to take time off and discuss once again what the most sensible composition of the special committees would be. It was then decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 March 2021 (by six people and one against, no abstentions), to propose that the first reading be closed (by four against two abstentions), to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 24 March inclusive and to appoint Mr Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. These last two decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U374	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U375	Thank you! I have a procedural question because the co-rapporteur or the Commission waitress said that the Mart Võrguship spoke exactly the same thing to the Commission, but things remained unclear. What, then, could the Commission decide if things were not clear? As the rapporteur here understood the discussion, he did not know many things, he was not familiar. So what did the Commission decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U376	That is what the Commission rapporteur has just said.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U377	The Commission was not left unclear. Since the Commission meeting was not held in the middle of the night, we were obviously more attentive. And I just told you what we decided. We decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda for the meeting on 10 March, to discuss it here and to propose that the first reading be closed. The deadline for amendments is 24 March and I am the rapporteur. These were Commission decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U378	Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U379	Yes, I have a procedural question, actually it is for Oudekki Loone, because I remember that at the committee meeting, we only took a decision to send the draft resolution committee for the population crisis into this hall, but the rest of the things I thought were going to the body of elders. How did it get here? I kind of don't remember it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U380	Unfortunately, I also see from the voting table that you have not taken part in the vote. So maybe you left this hearing early. It was a digital hearing, so I have to admit I didn't follow it exactly either. I can take it out later and tell you. But we really did vote. If I have to, I can tell you the names. For example, in favour of putting this draft on the agenda of this House today, Toomas Kivimägi, Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship voted. So your own party partner has also supported it to be on the agenda of this House. This draft was therefore sent very clearly to the plenary debate with a decision, but a compromise was made on the following special committees, which need to be negotiated more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U381	Henn Põllaas, please have a procedure... Henn Põllamaas, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U382	Thank you. Good Lone, you said that Kalle Grünthal and Urmas Reinsalu asked the committee what the purpose of this amendment was. If we now look at the fact that the Centre Party and the Reform Party want to change this balance, then there must, after all, be some substantive goals, which you have been silent about and which, in fact, the previous speaker has been silent about. Does this mean turning the objectives of learning the entire Estonian language upside down, changing it, postponing it? What really are the substantive objectives that are now intended to move forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U383	Thank you. In the Commission, Mart Netter said that the purpose of this amendment was to enable people who are more concerned with this issue to participate in the committee of concern, so that committee would become more effective. In the Commission, we did not discuss the substantive work of this committee. In my personal opinion, this committee has done an excellent piece of substantive work, and I am convinced that this committee will also continue its excellent piece of substantive work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U384	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please! Five plus three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U385	Ladies and gentlemen, At first, I'll answer the hottest question in the last half hour. There are currently five members of the Commission: I, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Helmen Kütt, Jaak Valge and Eerik-Niles Kross. Once this bill is adopted, there will be seven people on the Commission. And now very briefly, six points. Point one. I have no personal or political interest in this bill. I'll explain. I was chairman of the Special Committee of the State Audit Office in the Parliament of the Republic of XII and XIII for six years. Priit Sibul, who spoke here today about how we worked in this committee of concern, could have mentioned that in six years all decisions in this committee were taken by consensus, new working methods, new forms of work were launched. For example, this Commission was the first to make live broadcasts on the Internet. We started making reports. And it was cooperation, it was not just that the coalition and the opposition, it was necessary to do so for the sake of budgetary transparency, for the purpose of repairing state roads, etc. That is exactly what I have introduced in this committee of concern. All decisions taken during the year and a half have been taken by consensus, regardless of which side one or the other member of the Riigikogu is from. Point two. Is there an Estonian language learning problem? We have heard it for 30 years, it has been accommodated, or even millions or tens of millions, but hundreds of millions of euros have been wasted on it. Has all this waste of money produced any results? Point three. When we started, we tried to find out what the situation really was. And it's not a slogan. The learning process consists of specific details, the situation of which can be fully understood. For example, what about textbooks, study aids? Our conclusion is that very poor. The state has no complete control over this process. What about the frame, the preparation of the teachers? Very bad. As of 2014, the state will no longer have an order from the State. Urmas Espenberg looked at the tables that were sent to us on a massive basis and found out that only two of the 27 people who entered the Tallinn University Master's degree graduated in one year. Total failure. In kindergartens, everyone deals with it as they see fit, there is no unified system. There is no methodology, a standard methodology that provides some minimum knowledge. There's no control. Because I wouldn't call the state exams at the end of comprehensive school and high school for control. There is no complete control mechanism providing a continuous accurate overview. This whole thing we've been dealing with for the last year and a half. There was only one thing we did not investigate, because of the corona, that is the opinion of the publishers on the Ministry of Education's policy in printing textbooks and other educational tools. We are now preparing a matter of national importance. I hope that the Commission, which will meet in the new formation, will confirm the decision made by the previous formation I hope this will take place in April or at least this spring, no later than May. And there I will bring all the things that we have consensually decided in committee before you, but then in much longer and more detail than the eight minutes that I have been given now allow. I was talking about the Commission's expenses. Don't you care where the money's gone? I mean, the question of who's guilty, I tried to avoid. However, we tried to address the question of what to do. But actually, what is it, where have the tens and tens and tens of millions gone? Why has the cost been so high, but the result is so poor? If, after all, someone puts a stop to this problem and says what it is about, you will start calculating the Commission's costs. There are currently no meetings in the Commission. As I have explained to you, we had a concrete plan that I made clear to the Commission in September 2019. We've gone through practically everything, we've been through several schools, we've been in kindergartens, we've met universities, the Ministry of Education and the agencies. It's all been done. It is now necessary to clarify to the new formation what has been examined in a year and a half. There is no point in starting this now until the Commission is together. And we are now preparing for a debate on a matter of national importance. Here the sound of such a thing was heard by Mr Kivimägi, who said that such committees are like the publication of censure on a permanent committee. Oh, my God! I have a question that if no one is doing this, for 30 years, the permanent committees did not deal with it as they should. Who told you they'd be working on it tomorrow? And there will be no imposition. I have my own principles, I have been an Estonian teacher, experienced enough, done enough teaching tools, taught thousands of people, both adults and children. I talk to my colleagues all the time. I'm only defending what I think is right and necessary, and no one is putting pressure on me or imposing any harmful ideas on me that I don't believe in. This is what I wanted to say about this bill. Thank you for listening to me at this early hour!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U386	Thank you. And now I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of Helir-Valdor Seeder, Isamaa. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U387	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, At first sight, it may seem that this is an internal technical draft, as the representative of the initiators of the draft tried to argue here. In fact, that is far from the case. This is a very fundamental draft of state law, which changes the parliamentary practice so far. It also changes the mechanisms of parliamentary democracy, which have worked in Estonia on the basis of the same principles during the various coalitions of government and parliamentary formations. If we look at the plans of the coalition and the drafts that have been launched concerning the committees, it is not only the reorganisation of the committees of concern, the abolition of one or the reorganisation of another, but it also concerns other special committees. The aim and main role of all these committees, the National Audit Office's Corruption Committee and the Supervisory Committee on Security Authorities is, in fact, to carry out parliamentary supervision. The exercise of parliamentary supervision is not the same as the main task of permanent committees, i.e. the drafting of draft laws. And here is the principle of parity for the formation of committees. But now we are going to change this monitoring mechanism, which works in a democratic parliament, which has worked through different formations in the Riigikogu, so that, in any case, the coalition will have an advantage in all these committees. Obviously, it has very clear and definite objectives. We know what the status of the Centre Party is now, and many criminal cases are in progress in relation to the Centre Party as a political party or its members. It is necessary, in its own right, that the relevant committee, in the Committee on Corruption, also have an advantage over the coalition. It is very inconvenient if the principle of parity were to function in the State Budget Control Committee. It is good that the coalition can organise the work of the Commission by a majority and decide what is being discussed in the Commission and what is not. This is a very fundamental constitutional approach and a change in practice. We will also add here the draft law amending the Aliens Act, which we discussed here today, which amends the principles of the visa application and the principle of contesting visas, and will do so even on a much larger scale than European law prescribes. Next, the granting of citizenship to persons convicted of repeated criminal offences, the law on hate speech, or restriction of freedom of expression, etc., now making parliamentary supervision meaningless. It is all really such a justice reform or a state reform when we look at this whole pattern. Strangely enough, before the elections, the reform of justice, the reform of the courts and the roll-over of heads were promised by the EKRE, but now we see that the Reform Party and the Centre Party are doing this justice reform in their own way, doing so very strongly. The arguments put forward here today were absolutely not convincing. I don't know if you're going to go forward and deeper with this handwriting and pattern. After all, we currently have institutions operating in this very Parliament, which are still working, on the basis of the law. There is a representative of each political group in the Broadcasting Council. Should it also now be suddenly formed on a proportionate basis, so that the coalition controls not only the restriction of freedom of expression but also what is happening in national broadcasting? I think that's probably the next step. Eesti Pank, [of which the Council] is represented by political groups on the basis of parity. Maybe we'll change that too. As the initiator of the drafts stated, in Estonia, every change in the composition of the parliament will be a new approach to democracy and parliamentary practices, but what we are talking about is not the composition of the parliament, the change in the government coalition, the change in government, the change in government. I think it's very bad. And not only bad, but dangerous. This should definitely be avoided. I very much hope that the initiators of the draft will still think very seriously about creating this precedent, so that there is no temptation to do what has not been so far, so that every change of government will re-paint the entire parliamentary organisation. I heard the chairman of the committee say this: the proportionate approach is that there will be seven members in this committee, the Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning. So far, all permanent committees have been set up in accordance with the principle of proportionality. This is due to the Home and Working Procedures Act. This is done by the Board of the Riigikogu. Proportionality has been given a very clear content, it has again been through different formations according to specific rules, and it is still the case today. The Centre Party and the Reform Party, as the two largest, have the possibility to appoint three members to each commission, the EKRE has the possibility to appoint two, the Socialists and the Fatherland one. This principle takes into account the size of the political groups; it is a proportionate approach. And so we get 10 terms together: 3 plus 3 plus 2 plus 1 plus 1 is equal to 10. The interesting approach is now beginning to be: when it was said that there would be a proportional committee of seven, what proportion would that be? This is certainly not a proportionate approach and such a thing cannot be allowed by the Board of the Riigikogu. There are still two options: either a parite approach, which means that there are five members, one from each group, or a proportionate approach based on the electoral mandate given and on the size of the group. This means setting up a committee of ten. Whether each political group makes the most of its potential is up to the group itself, as well as who it sends there, but the size of the committee should come from this logic. In view of all the above and giving the coalition the opportunity, however, to think deeply about whether it is reasonable to come here and implement such a turn in parliamentary democracy in Estonia with such drafts at this time, the Pro Patria Group proposes to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U388	Thank you. Next, Mart Helme will receive the floor on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U389	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as there is yet to be heard. This is a very worrying moment right now. He is concerned because, first, the established parliamentary practices in Estonia are broken and very brutally broken. They are not broken simply because each Riigikogu has a right and can organise its work as the balance and representation of its composition in the Riigikogu is, but is done with great determination and with a very long perspective. Clearly, the Reform Party has learned that when they were in opposition, they began to lose control of what was happening in the country. It is now necessary to take steps to ensure that this check does not fail in the future as a result of any election results. And that is why we are going to be flooded, I am absolutely certain, I can take the poison on it in the coming months with just the kind of drafts like the last two, for which we have been breaking the peaks here for several hours, with the drafts that should ensure that the liberal forces will essentially remain in power in any case and will be able to ensure that any drafts, practices and whatever are being pushed through over what is happening in the country of our will. I cannot in any way be a supporter of such a soft dictatorship, and not just me, but our whole group. I dare even argue that society, including the voters of the Reform Party and the Centre Party, certainly does not support the introduction of such a soft dictatorship, the yokk-schemes, the yokk-system in the sense of national legislation. Therefore, it is absolutely not possible to think in two ways here, it is only possible to think in one way and this was said by the previous speaker. This bill must be rejected. Our party is also proposing this. Longer now, ten minutes before 5:00 a.m., I'm not gonna get your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U390	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U391	Thank you. I do not know about other colleagues, but my association was, in any case, very fragmented during Mr Helme's speech, and I did not understand much of his speech. I have a request to the chair to either refer to Mart Helme or give Mart Helme the opportunity to repeat it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U392	Thank you. Although his speech was very well heard in this Chamber, I may refer a few words. Mart Helme was very concerned about the tendencies that the Reform Party and the Centre Party are very strongly introducing through the drafts and amendments that demolish both our parliamentary democracy and democracy in the wider Estonian country. He confirmed that the Estonian Conservative People's Party supports the rejection of this draft. Jaanus Karilaid, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U393	I would like to say that Mr Seeder's speech was not heard before. Do you know what the main point of his story was?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U394	Thank you. I think you were in this room and you heard wonderfully. I'm not gonna go over it. Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U395	I'm sorry! I understood perfectly what Mr President of the sitting said, but I did not understand what Mr Jaanus Karilaid said. Is...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U396	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaiu's reply was not important; it was just such a malicious little statement. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U397	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. In fact, it is not procedural, I just wanted to stress over Urmas Reinsalu and others who did not well hear that I called this process, which the current coalition has launched, a step-by-step introduction of a soft dictatorship. And for those who did not hear, perhaps you are emphasising precisely this request for a soft dictatorship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U398	Thank you. Looks like more... Does Jaanus Karilaidi want a procedural question? Then you should press this hand button or the square, then there is a procedural question, otherwise there is just a wish to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U399	I see you've begun to make assessments. So Mart Helme's last speech was benevolent and my line was malicious? You're getting very personal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U400	Yeah, I'm sure if the person who's in this room says he can't hear anything, it's actually a bit of a dubious claim. However, it seems that the political groups have no more call requests and no more procedural questions. The negotiations are over. And since there has been a proposal from the Isamaa Group to reject this draft, we must put it to the vote. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Rene Koka is a procedural question, but we'll take it when the hall signal's over. Now we can basically go to the vote, but René Koka has her hand up, she has a procedural question first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U401	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I pressed more or less in time. I want to take a ten-minute break on behalf of the EKRE Group before we vote. Since this is still the case, given the future of the Estonian language and the discussion of concerns in the Riigikogu, with a very bad draft, all the initiators of the draft will be able to think about what is right, what is wrong before the vote. Please take a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U402	Yes, the political groups have the right to take a break before voting. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U403	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Isamaa Group to reject the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Problem Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. 335 Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U404	26 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, against 44. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 335. I will set the deadline of 25 March at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Thank you to all those who lasted until the end of the sitting. The mammoth session lasted countless hours, almost in the morning. The sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U405	Honourable Riigikogu and government representatives! Let's start our regular briefing. And as usual, first the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U406	32 members of the Riigikogu are present, 69 are missing. The following members of the government will take part in today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas via the Internet, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab, he will be in our hall, and Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus will also be on the Internet. As always, the members of the Riigikogu who have previously registered will be able to ask the question first, they will also have the opportunity to ask an additional question, and then there will be a round of quick fingers, one question from the floor. The length of the question is two minutes and the answer is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U407	And let's get to the questions. The first question is asked by Helle-Moonika Helme and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please! Helle-Moonika Helme, I see the picture, but I can't hear it. Is the mike in? Helle-Moonika Helme. Since, for some reason, we are not in contact at the moment, I will take the next question and then again give Helle-Moonika Helme the opportunity to ask the question. So those who wanted to ask an additional question just under this question can delete their name, but they can also leave their name for the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U408	Okay. Next, Indrek Saar asks and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U409	I hope my equipment works, and I'm at least hearing it, because I feel like I can't see the picture. Prime Minister! The last few weeks have been full of very different information. The government's decisions have changed very quickly, speculations about what our health picture really is and where we are have been very much. So I have the feeling that we all need clarity, which is the government's goal for the coming weeks, for the coming months. Where do we want to get in our health picture? What are the priorities set by the government before society? Where do we have to get under these restrictions, the significantly stricter rules that have been established, in the coming weeks and in the coming months? What are the basic goals that we should pursue and monitor as a society? How have you formulated it as a prime minister in the government? Please try to share it with us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U410	Thank you. I hope you can hear me too. These objectives are very clear, basically three things. First of all, our medical system can withstand what help is needed. Second, that the infection would go down and the infection chains would be cut. And thirdly, to increase vaccination to the extent necessary to bring out risk groups and to protect more and more people with it. These are the three main lines of action. They say we have a war with this virus, we have battles in different places that we have with this virus. What are these specific objectives? First of all, of course, the goal is for the coefficient of infection to go down. Secondly, the aim is for us to still get the burden down on the hospital network so that we do not need to interrupt the planned work. I'm just saying that the next two weeks are likely to be very difficult. We are now working to get more staff and resources for hospitals, to open new beds that will be opened from 12 March. We are also working on a more even distribution of the burden on hospitals, because we know that there is now a greater problem with the availability of hospitals in Northern Estonia. At the same time, we also deal with these other parties. It has been necessary to impose restrictions in order to reduce infection and cut down the chain of infection. Why have these restrictions changed? Because this whole crisis is very dynamic and information is always coming up. According to the law, restrictions must not exceed what is strictly necessary to prevent the spread of an infectious disease. That is why, according to a changed situation, we have had to turn these restrictions on because the previous ones have not worked enough. And I guess this crisis is going to be dynamic, and there's nothing to do. It's been going on for a year, but there's still a lot of unknowns, there's gonna be new virus variations, which will bring about new situations again. So all of this we have to deal with in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U411	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U412	Thank you for your answer. I hope that these goals will also somehow be set off by the government in numerical terms as to what the situation should be for weeks, what we see with the morbidity, what we see with the hospital facilities, which is what guarantees us that our health care system will endure and that society will overcome this concern. I also have a question about what rolled in front of us on the weekend and after the weekend when you, as Prime Minister, said that you have now decided to lock the state, because the spread of the British strain is considerably higher than we thought, and you spoke of very high percentages. A few moments later, the Health Board said that this was not really the main problem. The main problem is that the infected numbers have been set too high. As I understand it, there is a misunderstanding about how much there is of the so-called British strain and how much it really hurts the situation, the main problem in today's situation between you and the Health Board, which is still unsolved. This is, in my opinion, a problem if the Head of Government and the Health Board, who should be in charge of the emergency, are at different source data. And the other half. Your new friends, coalition partners from the Centre Party, both the former Prime Minister and today's Minister of Health, but also during the Riigikogu debate yesterday, the chairman of the fresh Social Affairs Committee, everyone thought that restrictions should have been done long ago and much more. So what's the government's position? What is the greatest threat in our health indicators now, this British strain or high numbers? What further restrictions should be applied in order to control the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U413	You asked what was the main problem in today's situation. The main problem is that this disease, COVID-19, is spreading very quickly in Estonian society, and the main problem is that we have to fight this infection. This is exactly the same problem for the Health Board, the government and all ministers. We do it on different lines, like I said. The problem is not what anyone specifically says or thinks, but the problem is that we have a lot of virus. How can people behave in a way that reduces contact with one another? I have also repeatedly told you, here at Riigikogu Question Time, to the chairmen of all political parties, that please we are speaking everything in one language now in a crisis situation. Make appeals to your supporters so that they stay at home, so that they don't throw parties, keep their distance, reduce contact with each other, everything so that we can bring the virus down and it doesn't spread so extensively anymore. And still, I will make this appeal again because I asked you to check whether you have made such a appeal to your supporters, and unfortunately my assistants did not find such a appeal on your part. So instead of blaming who is responsible for this, you can do it, but right now it would be necessary for everyone to act the same, and everyone would also call on their supporters to follow these instructions, because the situation is really very critical.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U414	Helle-Moonika Helme, please! Unfortunately, we're not hearing anything again about whether the microphone's out or if there's a problem. Helle-Moonika, we can't hear you. Unfortunately, there's no other choice, so let's take the next questioner, and that's Martin Helme. Please! Third round of quick fingers, not pre-registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U415	I see I may have a problem with the connection here, but I've still been given the floor. I will, of course, first of all, that we must all turn to our supporters, saying that we have always been in contact with our supporters. It seems to me that the point of this is that someone else has to take responsibility and someone else has to do something, as long as it's not the head of government. I still think about this scolding that we are now speaking in one language when we think about how much the opposition during the previous government gave the government a 'trust credit' and how much now that the current opposition is much more lenient in this respect than the previous opposition. But I have specific questions about resolving this health crisis. Does the government intend to procure any part of the vaccine on its own outside the European Union? And has cross-sectoral cooperation been considered in such a way as to address the Defence Forces and, if necessary, to obtain medical personnel and cars?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U416	Yeah. However, I say it is important that we all speak one language. While I called you before the torch tour, instead of inviting your people to act responsibly, you said in the media that, despite the Liberals, we will do it. In this sense, however, these gatherings do not need to be held. But coming to your question, of course, the government is responsible. I run this government, and as Prime Minister, I will deal with this crisis. I'm not pushing or pushing responsibility on anyone else, I'm just saying that the virus is spreading from person to person, and that's the only way that this virus chain can be disrupted so that people don't come into contact with each other. Well, that's the question of philosophy, how do we get people to act so that we don't hurt society as a whole? If people realize that this is important because it depends on all of us, then we would not need such extensive restrictions. But if it is the case that we are all speaking a different language and instead of inviting people to act responsibly, you say that, look, the government is responsible and we are doing something against the liberals, then indeed, people do not understand how they have to behave. But as far as the use of the Defence Forces is concerned, yes, the use of the Defence Forces is an issue, both the use of medical personnel and the technology used by the Defence Forces. So it's really all in the plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U417	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U418	Next, Sven Sester will ask, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U419	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Actually, I'd like to ask you a lot, I'd like to ask you about the tests, I'd like to ask you about the vaccinations, etc. But today, I focus my questions mainly on crisis management and communication. Looking at the last few weeks, the last few months, I notice quite a number of steps that give rise to astonishment as well as inconsistency. I'm really looking, from the formation of the government at the end of January, well, your claim was that in restaurants the virus isn't contagious and the opening hours need to be extended, direct quotations. Always playing with restaurant times. The question of rapid tests, where Tanel Kiik said at one point last Thursday that there was no point in introducing rapid tests. Yesterday, the Minister of Education and Science stated that allowing rapid tests in schools should actually be our future. The day before yesterday, the Monday fiasco, where you wrote some messages on Facebook that the government was unaware of, you stated that schools should be closed on Wednesday. Later, after the government meeting, it turned out to be Thursday. Conflict with the Health Board, where you claim that the main cause of the spread of the virus is the British strain. The health department turned it down, said it wasn't really the case. Irja Lutsar also confirmed that, in fact, we are just late with restrictions. In all of this, this is clearly a communication issue. I think communication is extremely bad. And here's my questions. How do you assess this from the side of communication in retrospect? Why has it all been like this? And I also think the important question is that I sense that you have not really involved private media at all in informing and informing the population. Are you ready to do this, and why haven't you? Why don't you give me some feedback on all the crazy communication that's been going on lately?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U420	Thank you. First of all, as I said, this crisis is dynamic and, unfortunately, the restrictions must be made in such a way as to help prevent the spread of an infectious disease. For me, therefore, it has always been very important that these restrictions are very targeted, that there is a causal link between the restriction and the infection. We are not doing restrictions simply because we are doing restrictions, but because we are doing restrictions in order to limit the contagious disease in certain places. After all, all these decisions have been very well founded and thoughtful. It's just that things are changing. As for this British strain, or strain of the virus called B117, which is commonly known as the British strain, this information was finally rejected by the Health Board. This mess was from communication. But I don't think that's important today. The important thing is that this new strain spreads 1.5 times faster than the other strains. Therefore, the previous measures have not affected it as it might have been expected. We have been listening to the proposals of the scientific council in the government all along, and we have discussed and imposed these restrictions according to what is necessary. I am simply pointing out that, with these restrictions, very many people are hurt, many people are losing their jobs, children are suffering from school education. We won't be able to feel that for years. In addition, people's mental health suffers from a constant state of crisis and anxiety. This is all a problem that needs to be taken into account. Therefore, these rules must not go beyond what is strictly necessary. That's what the law says. And that's exactly what we've been doing. Once again, in communication, it is very important, of course, that we all speak with one voice, say the same thing. Yes, I admit that there has been confusion, and this confusion is certainly something we want to avoid in the future and speak with one voice. I also place emphasis on the fact that the Fatherland could speak in the same language with its supporters. These messages are simple in themselves. The infection is spreading very quickly. In order to prevent this infection, human contact should be avoided. If possible, stay away from work, if this is not possible, use the mask indoors, use the mask in public spaces, also in public transport. Reduce the contacts as much as possible, because that's the only way we're gonna cut through these infection chains. And that's what I'm asking you to communicate, so we can get this communication right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U421	Sven Sester, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U422	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! I assure you that we will give our voters, Estonian society, but also you a clear signal: there is a need to make clear decisions in this crisis management. Good Madam Prime Minister, take and make clear decisions! I have also made clear on behalf of my party: there is a need for firm decisions, clear and reasoned decisions at this point. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the current crisis communication. Now, a few more questions. In my first 'package' of questions, I asked you to comment on the inclusion of private media. Please, let me see if you can see the need to introduce private media more forcefully into the government's communication system. That's just something you didn't answer. And another important subject, I have also given you an inquiry a few days ago, I hope that you will come to answer it as soon as possible. But I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to this in Question Time. You have sent to the members of the Riigikogu at the end of the day you have begun to send information in a generalised form on a daily basis, without personalising what the coronation is and what steps are taken in the fight against the corona. It took a long time for such information to come to the members of the Riigikogu. He'll be here today, but there's an important observation compared to last year. This information is subject to a five-year secrecy: until 2026 we should not talk about any of the fields of information that came to us yesterday will come today and tomorrow. It wasn't at the moments of the corona crisis last year. Today, as members of the Riigikogu, we are unable to discuss with experts and analysts about this existing and, I stress, unpersonalised information, maybe make proposals as a result of analysis, because it is an official use, the AK. Would you comment, please, why is that? Why have you put this five-year-old under cover? And, of course, as I mentioned earlier, the involvement of the private sector, please answer this as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U423	Thank you. Indeed, this sharing of information has been such that the previous government did not do so. Our government has now been in office for five or six weeks, and as you say, it took a long time to do so. Indeed, it took a long time before the government changed and we were able to do so. So, really, we're sending it to you now. As far as these specific reports are concerned, these reports reflect the information synthesized by the various national authorities, and, as you rightly mentioned, there is also personal health data on individuals as personal data of a special nature. The problem is that this report shows the infected very specifically, also on a location-based basis. And since Estonia has scattered settlements and there are not many people everywhere, perhaps the smartest ones are able to identify specific people on the basis of these numbers. In fact, it is also for the protection of people, so that their health data is not disseminated in any way. And another thing, these reports also have important security information for the country, and we do not want it to get outside the institutions and the people who need to get this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U424	Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U425	Thank you. I'm gonna check again to see if you can hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U426	Yeah, right now, and next thing you know, you're gonna get a chance to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U427	Yeah, I've been working with the IT department for a long time right now, so give me a chance to come up with the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U428	Yeah. Does Sven Sester have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U429	Yeah, thanks! I wanted to point out that several times a member of the Riigikogu asked the Prime Minister the same question, it was a matter of private media involvement, but for some reason the Prime Minister clearly did not want to answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U430	Yeah. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U431	Thank you, Mr President. As far as I know, vaccination in the Republic of Estonia should be voluntary. But in the past month, or in January, Hoolekandeteenused Valkla Kodu welfare institution took place in AS where one of the so-called "protective" vaccinations was forced. Let's say that person's name is Tanel. He complained to his guardian that his staff had given him and other patients in the institution, despite their resolute protest, a violent injection that was supposed to be a vaccine against COVID-19. Tanel said that for the injection, the staff of the facility held him in power, and after the injection, he felt very bad. Tanel then asked the guardian to do all he could to stop him from giving the second injection. This guardian turned to the Chancellor of Justice and, thanks to this referral, the advisers of the Chancellor of Justice went in and made sure that the situation was no longer out of control. On Monday, I asked Tanel Kiig for information on this. Tanel Kiik said he didn't have any data on it. The next day, i.e. yesterday, I asked Tanel Kiige again for information. He said send me proof of it. For me, it is incomprehensible whether your government will continue to violate human rights, the Constitution and also the European Commission's vaccination resolution in full, or whether you will be able to provide assistance here so that there is no forced vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U432	Thank you. There will be no compulsory vaccination in Estonia. Vaccination in Estonia is voluntary. However, as health authorities, doctors and nurses have said, if you have the chance that you will be advised to receive vaccination, be sure to take this opportunity. Because we are also seeing now that vaccination in nursing homes has resulted in there being virtually no outbreaks compared to the previous time, there are much fewer. People in nursing homes do not get sick like this anymore, and therefore, although older people are there, there are no more serious cases. It has also fallen from 80+ people. But vaccination is voluntary in Estonia. I'm gonna take this opportunity again. I don't know if Sven Sester is in the hall because I can't see the hall, but I'm really sorry I missed this private media question and I went straight to the back question. Of course, we want to involve and involve private media. We also need a vaccination campaign to spread positive messages, as well as the current restrictions and the codes of conduct of people. It is through private media that a very large number of people receive their information, and if the state does not send its messages on these channels, it may not reach everyone. So, of course, we want to cooperate with the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U433	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U434	Next, Helle-Moonika Helme will be able to ask a question and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U435	Good Prime Minister! I hope you can hear me now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U436	Yeah, it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U437	Thank you. So that the good Prime Minister should not spend time in his response to morale reading, so that we call on our supporters to act responsibly in the current situation, I will say very quickly that we will certainly do so. But now to the question. From Thursday this week, you tightened the restrictions on movement in Estonia at last! You have lied twice in one day last week, first at the government press conference and evening at the First Studio, saying that the current restrictions are stricter than the spring emergency. Its lie has even been exposed by a media fact check. But, as you can see, in your case, a blinding lie is still just the beautiful paving of the sun's reign. However, the public is unable to understand, and even the Director General of the Health Board was completely urged yesterday not to restrict cross-border travel and movement. The reason given by your government is that there should be an emergency situation. Listen, if the ambulance driver Raul Adlas practically calls for help, saying that the number of daily calls is about to exceed the critical limit, crisis managers are preparing to set the highest level of threat, what else do you think should be the reason for imposing an emergency situation? How many more people have to suffer and die? Why don't you squirm and shut down the cross-border movement? In spring, this was one of the important measures that quickly brought the number of infections to virtually zero. Yesterday, absolutely all professionals in the media expressed the view that it was from outside that new and particularly dangerous strains of virus come into us, over 130 flights a week. Come on, get this emergency done, as everyone who knows anything about it is recommending!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U438	Thank you. First of all, thank you for also calling on your supporters to act responsibly. Indeed, thank you very much for this. There's so much misinformation on your question together and so many things put together, but I'm starting with this emergency situation. Things were different in the spring. In spring, the situation was that the government could not impose restrictions on movement, all kinds of restrictions that we can impose today, because in spring we changed the law and all the restrictions we can impose now. The only thing we can't do without an emergency is use the Defence Forces for more than 30 days. It's the only thing. For 30 days, we can use the Defence Forces now. Therefore, legally, we have no need to impose an emergency situation, all of which we can impose. As far as cross-border mobility is concerned, cross-border mobility is very, very low. After all, we can see from the numbers that this virus is spreading primarily within the country, and these more dangerous strains are also spreading within the country. SYNLAB's study, which came on Sunday, shows that it is precisely in those places where the virus is spreading exceptionally quickly, such as Harjumaa and Saaremaa [they are strains]. In Saaremaa, the B117 strain was even 100%. It shows that the virus is spreading at a rate and a half times faster and is much more aggressive. It's the same in Harjumaa. That's exactly where the problem is. So, of course, we see the seriousness of this situation and we deal with it on a daily basis. We can impose all the restrictions today, too, and I am still sticking to the fact that the restrictions are tougher than they were last spring. I'll bring it out, which is exactly what it is. Last spring we didn't have the obligation to wear a mask in public indoors, now we do. We have schools in distance training, we have catering places that weren't there last spring. We have stores closed to all shops, not only shopping malls, but also other shops. Only shopping malls were closed in the spring. Food stores are open. We are forbidden to exercise indoors. We actually have all the restrictions that can be imposed, but now we have to wait for these restrictions to take effect. What are we gonna do about it? We have increased surveillance, tripled the money that goes to this supervision to ensure that people also comply with these restrictions, and if necessary, we also sanction these restrictions. I'm sorry, I'm out of time, but you can ask me more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U439	Helle-Moonika Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U440	[You can't hear it from the beginning. ... which you brought here in terms of restrictions, but still I would like to come back to that. You yourself said that, in this difficult situation, in the way I say, very many people are hurt, and still, the more we prolong the whole situation [the longer] we pluck this dog's tail, the longer this painful period becomes. But we will continue to deal with the activities of life at the border. You also admit that we have a bad situation at national level, but yesterday we heard a lot of news, and specialists indicated that they are very concerned that the disease is still coming in from outside. If we look at what our neighbours have done, Latvia has put in place a lot of controls at the border, it has been in place for a long time, and they have lost a lot of infections with it. But we don't do anything. All of South Estonia has been full of shopping Latvian citizens for a long time, whose health status is not controlled by anyone on our side. Finland extended the strict restrictions on cross-border movement to Estonian citizens just before your visit to Finland. We know, of course, what it means in diplomatic language. Everyone else is standing up for the people of their country and for the medical system, but not for Estonia that you run. I'm saying you're gonna have to close these borders one day, and the sooner you do it, the better for all of us. But in order to mitigate the consequences of your indecision, I would advise you, at least as long as this cross-border movement continues, to introduce rapid COVID tests at the border as a matter of urgency for all arrivals. People have been asking for them for a long time, but they were asking for it in the press yesterday. In Germany, they can be bought from pharmacies; other countries already use them in hospitals; they are cheap and effective. What do you think of that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U441	Thank you. Unfortunately, I didn't hear the beginning of your question, but I think I got more or less the idea of what you wanted to ask. First of all, there's going to be an infection on the outside. If we look at the situation in our neighbouring countries, it is better if we perhaps have a lower infection in Latvia than we do. If anyone here is giving someone the virus, we'd rather give it to them than them to us again, no one is measuring it directly. There are mandatory tests at airports for arrivals, and if you refuse this test, you have to be self-insulated. These restrictions, which are necessary, must be necessary to prevent the spread of the contagious disease. As far as Finland is concerned, once again, it is, frankly, rather unpleasant how you tie all these things together, and your eye probably doesn't look, but unfortunately I don't see your video when you talk. Finland imposed restrictions on Estonia at the end of January. My visit there was in February just to negotiate the options for mitigating these restrictions. But indeed, the situation in Estonia is much worse than in Finland and Finland has also imposed extensive restrictions. So we are trying to get this infectious disease under control in Estonia so much that the numbers will get better. Our priority now is that our hospital network can cope, and if the numbers go down, we can also discuss the relaxation of restrictions and we can renegotiate the possibilities for cross-border cooperation. As far as Finland is concerned, Finland is about to amend its law so that they can demand a negative test at the border. It is planned that it will take effect from 1 April, and in this case ships can also ask for this test. For example, airlines ask for tests in the same way before boarding. The other half of your question was rapid tests. Rapid tests are available and their use is considered in schools and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U442	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U443	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I would also like to say that EKRE is not the kind of association that supports us to spread the virus, but vice versa, we are still doing everything we can to limit this. My question is a further question about the fact that the specialists said yesterday that with charter flights, we have had a number of cases where the viral nests have spread out. We say we're gonna put these people in self-insulation, but this self-insulation control mechanism is still very weak. And that's why every case we bring in from somewhere is still very deplorable. How can we prevent these air travels from bringing in someone who might put us in an even sadder position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U444	[Speaks, but can't be heard. ]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U445	We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U446	Can you hear me now? I'm sorry! After all, these have been Estonian people who have gone on trips, not foreign citizens. There's a recommendation the State Department has been giving for a long time, so please don't go traveling. In Estonia, the Constitution does not allow its citizens to be banned from returning to their homeland. We can't do that, so these people need to be able to come home. We have very clear rules: if you come from abroad, you must take a test or remain self-insulating for ten days. If these people do not do so, then indeed, the Health Board will have the opportunity to introduce and implement coercive measures. But the problem is, maybe this information isn't spreading very much. The control of other members of society is also important. If you do know that your neighbor has come from Tanzania, you can also keep an eye on him in isolation and not go anywhere. There are some countries that have indeed restricted cross-border movement so that they do not even let their citizens back home. But our constitution won't allow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U447	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U448	Martin Helme next asks and is answered by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U449	[You can't hear it from the beginning. ... more specifically, on the additional budget of the state budget. We also had a meeting with the Minister of Finance in the Special Committee on State Budget Control on Monday, and there nobody so clearly told us that there was going to be an additional budget. However, a little later that same day, I read the position of the Minister of Finance in the media that the additional budget would certainly come. First of all, I have a question whether or not he will come and, if so, why he will come. What are the foreseeable expenditure increases that we do not have in the current budget, or what expenditure reductions are planned? How much is planned to increase the deficit, because the current budget is still in deficit, and how much is there to borrow more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U450	Thank you. At the meeting of the National Budget Control Committee, there were actually quite detailed questions about the additional budget to be planned. And if I am not mistaken, the author of this question was also one of those who asked these questions. So that's where we were talking about the extra budget. And indeed, at the Ministry of Finance, we had three scenarios. The first scenario was that the current restrictions would have been in place until the end of March, according to the spread of the virus. In such a case, we would simply have had the necessary support from the government reserve fund in a budgetary and public finance perspective, and that would have been enough. The second scenario was one where there was a forecast that the virus situation would deteriorate, so it is necessary to extend the existing restrictions until the end of April. But this, too, would probably have allowed us to cope with the government reserve fund's money. The third scenario was the toughest, with restrictions both tightening and prolonging the economy until the end of April or, obviously, April. And this third scenario really means that an additional budget needs to be prepared and done. That's what we're about to do. We want to bring this extra budget to Parliament as quickly as possible. The current timetable is that, by the end of March, the government will submit an additional draft budget to Parliament. And if you asked about the need to know exactly where this is coming from, then the greatest need is certainly to give businesses the assurance that, if and since the restrictions also concern the month of April, the most supportive wage subsidy will continue to be paid in April. The Unemployment Insurance Fund has no more resources for this in April, it must be done by means of an additional budget from the state budget, and that is what we want. In addition to wage support, the sectors most hit and entering the crisis with the lowest buffer will receive additional budget support in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U451	The question to be specified. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U452	Thank you. I am asking all this, of course, not because I would categorically oppose a possible additional budget, if necessary, then it is necessary. I ask this, of course, mainly because, at the time of budgeting last year, you and the Reform Party were more than critical of the current budget, claiming that the crisis is over and that the budget has too much minus planned and too much debt this year. I would point out that according to the forecast of the current budget law, the economic downturn in 2020 was to be 5.5%, the actual rate was 2.9%. So these assumptions are better than at the time of the adoption of the law. Just like that, we planned very large sums for a few hundred million reserves. And we planned to increase the debt burden to 6.6 billion then. What are the amounts that are missing from the current reserve that the current budget provides for us and which you transferred to the government last week in excess of 2020? So what makes this extra budget necessary? I have not actually received any numbers from you, and there was no specific talk in the National Audit Committee, there was exactly the same scenario talk, but there was no saying that yes, we did not. I would like to know, however, what are the amounts that are currently transferred and used by the reserve to you from last year, and what are the costs that you see that you cannot cover there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U453	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! The government has no dedicated reserve intended for extraordinary expenses. It currently amounts to EUR 33.9 million. The wage subsidy alone, the one-month wage subsidy, which does not take into account the tightened limits, is higher than this amount. It is true that the 33.9 million which was transferred to the new government in the so-called reserve fund will be added to the unused balances of the ministries of previous years. So it is likely that this amount can be increased to 60 million. But also, given the depth and gravity of the current crisis, it is not enough to cover the needs that the crisis inevitably entails. Unfortunately, the budget adopted at the end of last year has been very optimistic about the end of the crisis. Unfortunately, when we talk about urgent, unavoidable costs such as vaccination, such as testing, but also the costs necessary to ensure the functioning of hospitals and the health care system, they have not been taken into account in the current state budget in such a way as to enable them to cover this current crisis. If we are also talking about the additional stimulus or support given to the economy with the additional budget for last year, then it was certainly the very right and good thing the same mentioned wage subsidy. But for the rest, it has to be said that this support has been very selective and, therefore, the different economic sectors are also in a very unequal position, in a very different situation. The most recent analysis, which was also seen by the State Budget Control Committee, says that if, for example, wholesale and retail trade as a whole in the year as a whole, with these same subsidies, still reached 9% profit in an annual comparison, accommodation and catering as a whole remained in the deficit of 188%. This is a very important difference, and also when planning an additional budget, we certainly need to take into account which sectors were in the most difficult situation even before the new crisis wave and which ones are most in need of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U454	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U455	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is not true that the previous government was somewhat more optimistic. On the contrary, the Reform Party was more optimistic and claimed here in the autumn that the crisis was over, and therefore carried out a series of attacks against the previous government. But let this be an explanation for the background. That is the question. The previous government worked very systematically to gather all kinds of projects and investment opportunities to support the preservation of economic activity and the survival of domestic companies through state aid packages and investments. At the moment, experts have predicted that the crisis will continue, and the crisis will certainly continue, because the restrictions that are currently in place are clearly inadequate, and thousands will disappear, I stress, thousands of Estonian national companies. Will the current government and the Ministry of Finance also take into account the local economic recovery packages and what amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U456	Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! We have begun to draw up an additional budget to improve the current state budget. Specific details can be discussed in about two weeks' time. Our desire and goal is that the support we provide from the additional budget should reach as many as possible. This is what [we are working for] and what we will take into account in any case when we put together an additional budget. The most effective way to provide this support to as many as possible is by different analysts, but also by companies themselves, to mention wage support. That is why we really want to give the assurance that wage support will continue to be paid, as long as the very severe restrictions restrict business activity. And, of course, as I said in answering the first question, this desire and the need are precisely those sectors that entered the current crisis with much smaller buffers. These sectors, which also did not receive real, effective support last year, are clearly in need of additional support from these sectors. As far as possible, and precisely to those who have been hit hardest, we want to offer it. In addition to the additional budget, in fact, in addition to the extension of the support already decided by the government for KredEx, and in addition to the support measure for tourism directly targeted at EAS, which has already been approved by the government so far, we have the opportunity to use the European Union's crisis aid money, and this opportunity should hopefully open up quite quickly. From this crisis relief fund, too, we certainly want to target the aid specifically to the companies that you have referred to in difficult circumstances. The aim is to support the preservation of jobs and, in addition to jobs, to support the functioning of our health care system, both in the case of the additional budget, in the case of the government reserve fund and in the case of European crisis assistance. Because under what pressure, under what burden the healthcare system is currently working at, it is now at the human capacity threshold, and to the additional costs that have arisen there, we also want to provide support from an additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U457	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U458	Next, Helmen Kütt asks the question and is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U459	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is very good to go to this question after the question of a good fellow official, Martin Helme, concerning the additional budget. I ask you, as Minister of State Administration, what is to be expected of this additional budget for local authorities, because there are problems and concerns there too, namely regarding the kroon virus and the costs, but also probably lower receipts. Maybe you'll light up a little bit. You have already commented on something through the media, but perhaps you are giving a small overview to ensure that these regions still have a little assurance and assurance that their concerns have been heard with the additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U460	Honourable Chairman! Good questioner! As you may have understood from the answers of the Minister for Finance, this additional budget is a relatively fresh issue. With this, we are trying to act very quickly, and I also proposed three or four weeks ago to the Ministry of Finance to provide an overview of the reserves. Indeed, as this crisis has worsened, there have been many more infected, there have been many more people in the hospital, there have been more tests, already this half of the costs covered so much of the reserve available this year that it was clear that we have to think about the extra budget. Because, yes, there is a credit facility now, we can add, if necessary, but if we are spending, it must be included in the budget, and that is why we need this extra budget. And the reserve isn't enough, like I said. As far as municipalities are concerned, on the one hand, local governments are aggregated numbers, just as they look financially, pretty good. I congratulate the local governments. They also cut certain costs last year, really contributed to solving the crisis. There were certainly additional costs, but since we also had a crisis relief package, the various additional costs last year were covered by it, that 30 million were for various additional costs, 70 million for investments, 30 million for roads. And this aggregate result, which was the result of the municipalities, was actually even more positive on the balance sheet than last year was. But I do not want to say that this is only due to good tax revenue or aid, but municipalities have also made very responsible use of their funds. The beginning of this year shows that personal income tax, if viewed simply on average, is even surprisingly good. I think it's still because our economy has worked quite well, despite this crazy year. The first two months showed 3% more than the first two months of last year, which were normal and where the receipts were really very good. It even gives me a little bit of amazement that it's so good. But we can't expect it to stay that way. All these restrictions and this whole life-sustaining must also have an impact on the incomes of local governments. I am trying to put this package into the supplementary budget precisely in such a way that support for extraordinary costs, which also involve additional staff, such as social services, personal protective equipment, all the work, even in schools and kindergartens, is often in need of additional labour. Thus, these additional costs would, however, try to support municipalities to a certain extent. And on the other hand, the unearned revenue. We know that because of restrictions, we have supported private interest education and private interest activities, for example, but we have not supported local authorities in terms of their own revenues that have not been received, because this was a large package of aid last year. But it certainly has to be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U461	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U462	Thank you, good minister, for that answer. And it is very good that you have also brought here the issues that concern, for example, welfare institutions, where extra costs were needed because of the kroon virus. You have also been Minister of Social Affairs, because when you read yesterday's press release, I am not asking you directly about the topics of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but here is a long list of institutions that receive this additional support for nearly 260000. I guess I'll contact the Social Insurance Board, because it's very sad that there's been the Lõhavere Centre of Treatment and Care, for example, where out of the 40 employees, 68 of the 25, 76 people were ill and 68 died, a true, part in the hospital, 12 in the hospital. This body is not on that list or list, although they submitted their papers there in good time. But my question is this. As you said in one interview, support for people is very important, support for people living in this municipality. Well, it can't just be income support or mask-sharing. In the case of masks distributed last time by the state, the problem was that they had to be reused first, then there was a glitch, the municipalities were waiting, then they came with one-time-use good that they arrived, they were distributed quickly, of course. And today we are hearing news of this, and here is the recognition of the city of Tallinn, which has begun to share its own resources. But not every municipality can probably share it at the expense of own resources. Is it intended to be a direct grant, whether masks or other, or to allow additional resources to be used, specifically for people living in municipalities? You're at the government table, you're a minister with a social nerve, you've worked as a minister of social affairs. Is there any such information? [I am asking you] because today we do not have social ministers in Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U463	Okay, thanks. I'm willing to answer all the questions, Helmen. As far as Lahavere is concerned, I need to investigate, I really don't know. We did what's on that list and why it didn't get there, I don't know. But this isn't the first money allocation, these money allocations were used to be. The government had already decided at the time of the previous government that where there are hearths or positive sick inside, these nursing homes, on the one hand, would receive money to cover the extra labour costs, and that is exactly what you mentioned, the 260000 that was now, but earlier, has also received. And on the other hand, we also distributed personal protective equipment to them to simply alleviate these costs. As far as municipalities are concerned, it was only last week that we made a decision and, as far as I know, a million more one-off masks should begin to reach the municipalities this week. The direction is to share with the insecurities, and we pretty much counted there on the edge of our livelihood and a little bit on it, with this formula. We are certainly ready to support this further. And more than that, the Ministry of Social Affairs should ask if they foresee any kind of emergency support. Well, it's clear that many children, underprivileged, risk groups. I do not rule out these proposals being made by the Ministry of Social Affairs, because I have heard of them, but since this supplementary budget issue is currently in the ministries, it is only those proposals that we are discussing, we will see. There was some information about how it's been moving. I very much congratulate the local governments. I guess the storm taught us. And we made that decision without changing the law. In such an emergency, the Rescue Board will take over if, for example, the Health Board, which by law should have taken over, does not have so much resources. Regional Crisis Committees were launched, information went down to the municipal crisis committee and problems returned to the authorities, and institutions were in the regional, Health Board, Rescue Board, the police were in the presence of this committee. It worked very well, I very much congratulate the Ministry of the Interior, the Rescue Board, as well as the municipalities. And this statement that information can always move better than of course can. But, well, we tried everywhere. For example, if we had a decision made in a government office, I know that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Affairs might have been the fastest to describe it on their Facebook. Of course, sometimes something went missing in the translation there, some ministers may have said out early some details that didn't add up, but generally we tried to do our best to inform them. And here's the question, what's going to happen now? As far as I know, with the private media, we're negotiating. And one serious issue is vaccination. We need to bring this information to people better, rather than sound all the time with certain negative information, risks and other things. We need it so that people are more positive about it, remaining negative about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U464	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U465	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I come with my question to this issue, which I also asked Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, concerning the compulsory vaccination of Valkla Home by AS Hoolekandeteenused, in which the staff of the institution violently injected the residents there. With this question, as well as with a factually proven problem, I turned to Tanel Kiige, who said on Monday that he was not aware, the next day replied that you should provide evidence. Today, when I asked Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, he said that there would be no compulsory vaccination in Estonia based on this fact. I'm sorry, but it seems to me that some members of the government in your government have lost their minds, including the Prime Minister. The reason is that if there are facts that there is a violent injection, and on top of that, the Prime Minister says there isn't, then I have no further questions about this issue. But knowing you as a man of the people, I have the only hope for you right now. Are you prepared to do something to bring this situation to the public, to launch a criminal investigation if necessary, to commit a crime? Will you give that word here as a representative of the government, on whom people are counting even a little bit? And if you're ready to do this, please tell me what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U466	Thank you for your question. If it's so topical, I'm sure you'll have to make it clear. I can't comment on the details or the answers given to you by the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health and Labour, but if you set it up, I'll definitely look into it and ask. If it were to respond to any facts, I'm sure it would have to be investigated. In my opinion, the Chancellor of Justice has always commented and checked such situations. So I don't know if you've approached the Chancellor of Justice. In particular, as far as nursing homes are concerned, I know that the current Chancellor of Justice has done very well in this respect, that he has been monitoring all along what is happening in the welfare system and that there are no such coercive methods. I can confirm: there is no compulsory vaccination in Estonia. If anyone has been wrong about this, we need to find out. We have to have a full vaccination! in the case of a person who is a And if such episodes have occurred, it should be checked to avoid further episodes like this. Definitely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U467	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U468	The next questioner is Urmas Reinsalu and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U469	This crisis is currently in a catastrophic phase. If we look at the management of this crisis, in addition to the health crisis and the socio-economic crisis that is encircling from there, I believe that we are also dealing with a management crisis. Governance requires a competent assessment of the situation and the introduction of relevant measures, as well as an assessment of how serious the crisis we are currently dealing with. In the current situation, the Emergency Act provides for a series of measures, the Disease Control Act also provides for a series of measures, but in view of the seriousness of this crisis, I believe that the constitutional path to combating this crisis is precisely the launch of a different model of governance, and this is only possible by establishing an emergency situation. In an emergency situation, the most central meaning of the change in governance is that the emergency manager takes clear personal responsibility and also has full power to implement the decisions needed to resolve the crisis directly and quickly. Madam Prime Minister, why has the government not announced an emergency situation in the current disastrous health crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U470	Thank you. Indeed, in that you are right that this is a very difficult situation. We must see how we have come to this situation. If we look at the time that has been before this government took office, what did the previous government do in the autumn? Married referendums, not the preparation of vaccinations, not the preparation of hospitals, not the provision of messages to society that there is still a threat. And I believe that because of this whole marriage referendum fight, people's endurance has also diminished. In this respect, indeed, we should have dealt with those things that are important, to which we constantly pointed out at the time. But now, come to this emergency situation. You were a foreign minister in the previous government. Before that, you have been a minister of justice for a long time. I know you have a higher legal education, you're a very respected lawyer. That is why you were definitely present when the government prepared and the Riigikogu approved amendments to the law that allow the government to impose all the restrictions that, in the past, yes indeed, could not be made in spring without declaring the emergency situation. All these rights exist in the current government, all these rights we exercise. Of course, this crisis is managed by the government, we have different lines of work, different lines for which different ministers are responsible. For example, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus is responsible for the finances of the crisis, which is why he is putting together an additional budget. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, is responsible for the organisation of vaccination and hospitals. Then we also have a Minister for Social Protection who deals with mental health problems. We have a Minister for Enterprise who is responsible for business measures and for mitigating their losses. And, of course, this government is run by the Prime Minister, and I am responsible for organising this government's work. At the moment, it is important that we can resolve these crises, and we are dealing with this and we are managing this crisis. Just as last spring was a necessary emergency, there is no need for this emergency today. All these quick solutions we can and we have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U471	Urmas Reinsalu, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U472	[You can't hear it from the beginning. ... a relevant assessment of the seriousness of this crisis. I repeat: this crisis is a management crisis alongside all other aspects. To get out of it, we need precisely the special governance model that the constitutional way of establishing an emergency situation provides for. And this, Madam Prime Minister, is my opinion as a lawyer, as a citizen and also a politician. Look, you're saying that there's "collegial leadership," everyone dealing with their own section. However, for weeks now, a government with this model of governance has not fully implemented the proposed measures, despite repeated calls from the Health Advisory Board. Two measures have not been implemented and I ask you to explain why the government has not considered them to be meaningful or appropriate. The first was to establish a rule for private meetings for up to six people. Secondly, in order to prevent the strains of the mutated virus from reaching Estonia, the health council has for weeks proposed the introduction of the principle of total testing at borders, as has been the case in Finland, Sweden, Germany, France, Latvia, Lithuania, etc. However, you have not considered it necessary to do so, despite the proposal of the Health Advisory Board. What motive, if you say that the management arrangements are working smoothly, have you failed to take these measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U473	Thank you. First of all, this virus is spreading inside the country, and within the country, it's basically gaining strength. That is why we have put in place the restrictions that are absolutely necessary to prevent the spread of the contagious disease. We have also established a 2+2 rule, which is less than six people. But you also know very well that if we make a rule, we must also be able to control compliance with that rule. If we have a six-person rule in our homes, do you really want a situation where the police go knocking on all the doors and counting how many of you are there? We still want rules that we can enforce and which inevitably disrupt these contagious chains. In Finland, this test has not been mandatory in any way so far. In Estonia, by the way, you know well, because it has been established in your time, it is an obligation to take a test at the border when you cross the border. If you don't do this test, you have a duty to be self-insulated according to the rules. If you don't, the Health Board will be able to apply a coercive payment to get these people to order. So we have those possibilities, but once again I'm going to overdo it: the virus is spreading to us here inside the country. I don't know why you keep pushing this emergency. Because last spring was a completely different situation. And I could also say as a hindsight that the announcement of an emergency situation for the 27 infected may not have made sense at that point. But after that, you know very well, we changed the law. The government has all the powers. Do you really think it makes sense that the Prime Minister deals with all the topics? We've got a lot of different fronts, and there's different responsibilities on all these fronts. The Prime Minister is, of course, responsible for all how the crisis can be resolved. It is understandable to everyone, but not all routes can be run by the Prime Minister, but different people are responsible. This is how we can do much better if we share tasks and exchange information to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U474	Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U475	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Listening to the Prime Minister's reply to what he envisages this crisis-solving model and the most important issue we currently have in the country, I propose that you meet the Riigikogu's management board, meet the Prime Minister and discuss this crisis-solving model in accordance with the Constitution. If there is a particular crisis, as the Prime Minister pointed out, contrary to his view, that different people are dealing with everything, it is precisely one leader who must have in his hands the full weight of leadership that can be realised in order to resolve the crisis. That is, in fact, the fundamental constitutional logic of resolving all, whether military or civilian, Madam Prime Minister! Mr President of the Riigikogu, do you agree with this procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U476	Thank you. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Riigikogu's board, we were just discussing the exact same issue, the meeting of the body of elders with the Prime Minister, and I hope that this will happen very soon. But now there's a chance to ask Evgeny Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U477	Thank you. Prime Minister! Firstly, I would like to welcome the fact that the Estonian Government has finally reached an adequate package of measures. Before I ask, two comments on the things you've said so far. As a taught philosopher, I would like to say that not every complex issue is necessarily a philosophical question. The question of how to make people listen to communication and act as a result is certainly difficult, but it is not philosophical. The second question or comment concerns speaking on one language. I very much agree that the country should speak as much as possible in a crisis situation with one language. But I think that here to blame Indrek Saart or Helir-Valdor Seeder for not making appeals to their supporters, voters, is not quite fair. For example, the Social Democrats have already quite spontaneously launched a campaign to support vaccination for their voters, and one might also ask why you have not done so. Naturally, the Estonian people expect adequate health advice and codes of conduct from those institutions in the Estonian country that have been appointed for this purpose, and political parties do not. But I very much agree with you that looking for the guilty is not the right question at this point, but that does not mean that the mismanagement that has been made should not be analysed. I think it is necessary to analyse them immediately in order to avoid them in the future. You said that the restrictions that need to be imposed must be absolutely necessary in order to achieve the objectives that have been set. The goals, you said, are to reduce the infection and to cope with the hospital system. Objectively, today we are in a situation where the infection is spreading and the hospital system is collapsing, so both of these objectives, in fact, with the restrictions that have been in place so far, have unfortunately not been achieved. Consequently, the failure of government decisions is an objective fact. My question, therefore, is: if you could decide again, what decisions would you make differently between 26 January and 10 March?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U478	Thank you. First of all, I have to come back to Urmas Reinsalu's procedural comment and say that I made an appeal in February in Riigikogu Question Time that we would convene a body of elders when I had a political statement. There were questions about that, I made suggestions there. On 23 February, I sent a letter to the leaders of the political groups and the management board of the Riigikogu with a proposal to discuss them in the Council of Elders. But the Prime Minister cannot convene the Riigikogu's body of elders. This can be done by the Board of the Riigikogu, and with such complaints you must first and foremost address the Riigikogu Board, why it has not been done so far. Now, to Evgeny Ossinovski. I do not blame the leaders of the parties in any way, I simply, on the contrary, make a request and I have repeatedly prayed that you speak the same thing. This absolutely does not take away our responsibility or the responsibility of the state, the responsibility of the government and the responsibility of the agencies to speak in one language, but it would be very helpful if you did. So I'm very grateful that you've started this vaccination campaign. The country will also have a vaccination campaign and I hope that they will complement each other. As far as your question of restrictions is concerned, we have tightened these restrictions every week and we have tightened them up on this basis or on the basis of the information provided to us by the Scientific Advisory Board. This information has changed very quickly, including the situation of hospitals. Three weeks ago, the question of whether hospitals can withstand these restrictions was that they do. In particular, since there was a significant reduction in infection among older people, the opinion was that serious cases would be less frequent, as infection is particularly among the younger ones who suffer from the disease more easily. Of course, afterwards we can analyse what has been done correctly, what has been done wrong, but, as you yourself said, we have to go ahead now, resolve the crises that we are facing, and then analyse these steps later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U479	Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U480	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I would like to protect the Prime Minister for the sake of the protocol. Mr President of the Riigikogu, did you also understand that my procedural question was specifically addressed to you so that the Council of Elders could have a dialogue with the Prime Minister, which way of resolving the crisis in this catastrophic situation is best? My assessment did not in any way contain an incriminating or critical assessment of the Prime Minister on this matter. How did it feel to you, Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U481	Yes, I think your question was entirely justified. At this point, I must say that this appeal to the group presidents and to the board, which the Prime Minister mentioned, was not in the form that the Prime Minister wanted to meet with the Riigikogu, and there was no proposal for a date. It said, in essence, that instead of coming to the large hall and sharing with all members of the Riigikogu the information available and talking about the planned steps and the situation, he would rather speak only to the body of elders. So there's still a very intrinsic difference. We can now stop dealing with this issue. But Valdo Randpere has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U482	I have a procedural question and a suggestion that perhaps less Question Time should be spent here to discuss the relationship between Urmas Reinsalu and Henn Põllea, or what we are now doing with the Prime Minister where we invite him. Let's talk about Question Time, these questions are important, people are waiting for answers. Let's not waste time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U483	Thank you. I do not agree with the honourable member of the Riigikogu's suggestion that the President should start closing the suite of members of the Riigikogu. All members of the Riigikogu have the right to ask procedural questions as well as other questions. Mart Helme's got his hand up, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U484	Thank you. I would also like to intervene in this procedural debate and point out that, unfortunately, the Prime Minister has not given us enough concrete answers and has included direct lies in his response, such as the fact that the previous government did not share information about the crisis and about COVID. Well, that's a direct lie. By the way, Mr Leo Kunnas has brought two thick files into this hall now, he can show them, demonstrate them, two thick files, which are all excerpts from these press conferences, these briefings, the materials that the previous government, specifically the previous government, presented to the public about COVID. So I would ask the Prime Minister, however, not to present such ideological and propaganda lies to us who know the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U485	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U486	Let's go to the next question, it's presented by Merry Aart and answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U487	Sir... Do you hear me? Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U488	We hear you well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U489	Okay. Prime Minister! There was an unexpected situation last year. There was a corona. It is clear that they were not able to take positions from the very beginning, to shape positions. No one knew how long this situation would last, it was difficult to mitigate the risks. The government at the time was under great pressure, and you yourself, Prime Minister, were one of the pressurers. But that's it. Now it's been time to analyze, think, adapt. My question is this: what will be the rules to reduce the risks associated with the introduction of migrant workers? In addition to testing, can you ask for a vaccination pass or something else? What are the conditions for the use of foreign workers this year? I also ask from this context that spring is coming and last year there were major problems in agriculture, in strawberry farming. I would like to know whether this year things will be more concrete and clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U490	[Speaks, but there's nothing to hear. ]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U491	I'm sorry, we can't hear you. Please turn the mike on! Prime Minister, we can't hear you. I still can't hear you. No. I can't hear you. Maybe we'll have to retread. Well, there's a picture, but there's no sound. Since all the following questions are to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, I cannot give anyone else a word round in the meantime, unfortunately. Let's wait a minute. Maybe we can reconnect. Let's take a three-minute break so the prime minister's computer can work properly. Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U492	Break's over. I hope the connection's in order. Please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U493	Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U494	Yeah, here we go.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U495	Okay, got it. First of all, to this previous comment. I can't allow false information to sound. The President of the Riigikogu said that it was as if the Prime Minister did not want to come to the grand hall of the Riigikogu and then offered it for the meeting of the Riigikogu. It's just not true. On 22 February, I made a political statement before the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu, and on 23 February, I sent a letter proposing that I also come to the Assembly of Elders to improve this exchange of information in the future. And that's what I said earlier in Question Time. So it's just not true, these things were in a different order. I now come to the question of foreign workers. Firstly, of course, at the moment we have a very difficult situation where very many people are losing or have lost their jobs, our unemployment rate has risen by more than 8% and it is even higher in certain regions, so it should still be the primary job vacancy. And that is why we have also foreseen in the coalition agreement that in those areas where it is not possible to find a workforce on the ground, foreign workers could also be involved, and in others where there is enough labour on the ground, or there is unemployment, this new worker should also be found on the ground. Now, as far as these outside workers are concerned, when they are coming, they are subject to exactly the same rules as other people who come to Estonia. They're gonna run a test on the border, but if you don't do that test, it's isolation duty. That applies to them, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U496	Merry Aart, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U497	[You can't hear it from the beginning. ... but I would also like to ask you that if we let [people] cross the border, we have rules, but do we know what the responsibility of rights is? Does anyone take responsibility for not getting worse here than they are? The fact that the test is being carried out and they're in isolation, isn't that a little too little?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U498	I'm so sorry, I didn't hear the first part of your question. Perhaps the Chairman of the Riigikogu gives the right to ask again because this sound only began to sound halfway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U499	Yes, please, Merry Aart!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U500	... tests and isolation are the only elements of responsibility. Isn't that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U501	I'm sorry to interrupt! Merry Aart, you started talking earlier when we got the signal. Please repeat from the beginning!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U502	I'll try. I thanked the Prime Minister for his answer, and my question was whether the test and the isolation were responsible enough to make sure nothing worse could happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U503	Yeah, people are human. Finally, if we don't let any people out of line, there's no risk with these people. But, as I say, when we are talking about border crossings, Estonian citizens have the right to cross the border anyway, that is to say, all the trips that have been undertaken, we cannot prevent our citizens from returning to Estonia. And if they bring that virus with them, then indeed, these are the rules that we have in place. After all, the remaining restrictions are against the Constitution. And if we look at you as a model for Latvia, or Latvia as a model for labour migration, Finland does not restrict labour migration in certain positions. Family migration [will not be limited]. I think any person who comes across the border might be able to find some kind of family reason. In this sense, we can make rules, but the question is whether we can ensure that they are respected. The second question is whether the imposition of these restrictions will still result in the spread of this infectious disease being prevented. If we look at this situation now, the spread of the virus within the country is far greater than that of our neighbours. Perhaps this risk will not come to us now from outside, but we will have to deal with this crisis within this country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U504	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U505	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U506	Yeah, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U507	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You have repeatedly criticised the members and political parties of the Riigikogu in connection with the COVID here today. At the same time, you had no hesitation in granting permission for the Tartu Marathon, where there were thousands of people. But it seems that a saying must be taken to follow my words, not my actions. Unfortunately, we have another high-ranking head of state in Estonia who has recently travelled very, very much. My question is to you: how do you think the Estonian people today could be affected by such an example that the President is travelling, as if nothing had happened? At the same time, you keep telling people that we must all work together to get out of it, which is undoubtedly right. But in this light, how do you feel about traveling to the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U508	Thank you. First of all, the previous government, the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, authorised the Tartu Marathon to take place. So there's no way to blame the current government for that. But again I have not said that I criticise the members of the Riigikogu. I'm just calling for the same messages. If we give mixed messages while saying no, we're still doing our thing, then a lot of people think the same way: let the others restrict themselves, but we still want to do our, I don't know, torch train or whatever, we still do these gatherings. The important thing to prevent this virus is that we all act together, and I very much hope that we will. As far as travel is concerned, indeed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been calling for people not to travel outside Estonia at this time. But the Estonian state must continue to function. Allied relations, as well as the way in which we are represented in international organisations, are very important to the Estonian state in terms of our security. For example, there are a lot of negotiations on vaccines that are lacking everywhere. To get better at these vaccines, to increase these doses, there are negotiations in Europe, and we need to be represented behind these tables. Similarly, questions relating to our security. The highest representatives of the Estonian state must still be represented at these tables and our voice must be there to ensure our security and our interests must be represented outside. So I do not believe that the President is travelling for nothing now, but according to his duties it will happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U509	I will conclude on this issue. But we have some procedural questions here. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U510	Thank you, President-in-Office. I would, however, point out to the Prime Minister that the organisation of a torch torch tour in accordance with all the rules we have laid down has not caused any known cases of corona. At the same time, we know that marathons that have exceeded the rules have led to cases of infection. I ask the Prime Minister to be correct and not to give the impression that we are the cause of the increase and rise of the pandemic of 1,500 or 1 500 people and have called on people not to care about the rules. That's not true. This is yet another lie and characterises our Prime Minister's total communication lies and accusations of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U511	Rene Chef, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U512	I am a little confused about who is leading the Republic of Estonia today. If it is said here that the previous government did, I do not understand whether the current government, if it sees a threat in one cause or another, has no levers to stop them. If the previous government had planned a big event for each month for this year, I don't know if a few concerts, does the current Prime Minister want to say that he can't do anything because the previous government decided? I'm a little confused. Who is currently running the country, either the government currently in office or some other ministers from the previous government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U513	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U514	Thank you. It is also important for me to note for the verbatim that it is not possible to tolerate the demagogue that the Prime Minister is expressing in this response. I am not expressing the opinion here as to whether the organisation of the Tartu Marathon was correct or whether it was not right to reconsider the decision that the previous government made in the changed circumstances, but this opportunity and competence existed in the government. And if the current Head of Government says that he could not do this because the previous government did, either the new government has not yet taken office or the new government is not based on a changing situation. This is a very demagogic situation. In all other respects, the new government will be able to make some vague decisions. This endless blaming of the previous government that we can do nothing about the decision made by the previous government is not an adequate answer to the questions that come from this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U515	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U516	Let's go to the next registered question. It will be presented by Eduard Odines and will be answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U517	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I had a desire today to take your thoughts away from the health crisis a little bit and talk about other things, and I hope that you will answer me in substance and will not answer those procedural questions that are not addressed to the Prime Minister. A few weeks ago, the chairman of the board of one of the largest employers in Ida-Virumaa Viru Chemistry Group shocked the people of Ida-Virumaa and quite a few of his employees with the announcement that the oil plant would probably have to be shut down even earlier than the government had planned, i.e. to stop producing oil from oil shale. It refers here to quotas and prices for carbon dioxide. While free quotas are currently falling by 2.2% each year, in future, the European Union will plan this reduction step to 6% per year, which, together with the price of the quota, will significantly increase the carbon tax. All of this can lead to new investments in oil shale mining and oil production being no longer profitable and about 1600 people losing their jobs. And it all happens about ten years or more before the government has thought about its reform. The chairman of the board accuses the government of having no position whatsoever and no opinion on what this carbon tax policy should be. Do you have this position and what kind of policy should that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U518	Thank you very much for the substantive question. The private sector does so that it takes into account all trends in the world and looks at whether or not its product has a market and the direction in which the whole world is moving. In this respect, this decision of the private sector company shows that, in fact, a green turn must be dealt with and that oil shale, as a fossil energy source, will inevitably become increasingly expensive to use and invest in it in this form, does not make sense. What we need to look at is that we avoid creating a socio-economic problem in Ida-Virumaa, and then we also invest in it. We have a fair transition fund in the European Union from which 340 million are earmarked for these transitions to Ida-Viru County. And, of course, we are also standing up for climate policy in Europe in such a way that we are fighting for these quotas and mitigation measures to help this region and these sectors. But the truth is, the world is moving towards making and using cleaner fuels.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U519	Eduard Odines, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U520	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! I asked for these things when you took office, and I guess I'll stay asking these questions from time to time throughout your reign, because the people of Ida-Viru County and myself are very interested in this subject. Unfortunately, you did not answer my question about the government's position on the steps taken to reduce these quotas. I have understood that this is still the subject of negotiations between the Member States. With what message will the Estonian state go to these negotiations? What are these steps: how will these quotas be reduced so that we can keep the 1600 jobs that the chairman of the management board of the VKG is talking about for as long as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U521	Thank you. Of course we stand up for our businesses and our sectors. As far as CO2 is concerned, there is a search everywhere for these cost-effective measures to capture CO2. And as far as quotas are concerned, we need to look at the form in which the quotas we have today can continue to be used. This thing basically has two ends. One side is that it is not like this sector is falling apart, so that, on the one hand, in Europe, we are trying to reduce CO2, on the other hand, we have quotas for certain companies. And the other side is the measures that force these emissions to be reduced. Of course we will discuss and stand for it. If I come back specifically to your question, I can answer you in writing what our views have been. I don't have it right now. But there's one thing I'd like to do because I can see that time is running out. This is Mart Helme saying that there were no known cases of infection on the torch train. What do we know now? What we know is that 33% of the infections happen in a way that people don't know where they got the infection from, that's the problem of how to target the restrictions. They often say, well, it doesn't spread here. Rene Chef asked about it as if we couldn't limit things. Yeah, like the government's approval of the Haanja Marathon, we canceled. It would have happened now, but we have indeed banned such a permit and this event. So, of course, these decisions we can make and we will. But it's just this government has been in office for six weeks. We keep making those decisions. Let me just remind you that the last government, even four years in power, always said that the Reform Party was in power for 17 years, that, the second and the third. So I do not think there is any reason to say that some of the decisions of the previous government are still in force, which we have not rejected. But, yeah, we'll take care of all this slowly. Indeed, there is much to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U522	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is no more time to ask questions and answer questions. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions and thank all the members of the government for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U523	Ladies and gentlemen, Hello and have a nice Wednesday! We will start the 7th working week session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. As always, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries at the beginning of the sitting. Please, Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U524	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which we will propose to the Government of the Republic to compensate for sick days from the first day. That the infection is spreading beyond our control, that the health care system is under a lot of pressure and that the emergency hospital situation is critical, we hear and see. So far, the necessary decisions have been delayed. For example, in order to motivate employers to keep workers at home, to stay sick and in close contact with them, it is now imperative that the state do its utmost to motivate people to test and actually separate themselves from others in the event of a positive test. We've got job spots, that's what happened in the fall, and that's what it is now, but unlike last spring, people are no longer afraid of infection. People are under pressure to work, not stay at home in close contact and lose their income. And the cost pressure of employers is actually very high. On the one hand, to allow some of the workers to work for signs of illness or in close contact at home, a replacement must be found, i.e. people who do the job and, on the other hand, people who stay at home must also be paid sickness allowance. So it's kind of a double burden on employers. Thus, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to pay the sickness benefit from day one 100% of the remuneration of people with a positive test result and close contacts until the day of recovery or termination of quarantine and for those who are not entitled to sickness benefit or whose sickness benefit is very low, less than EUR 500, a one-off allowance of EUR 500.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U525	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U526	This would allow people to stay at home. And if there are additional costs of ordering food and medicines home or the need for separation from family members, these costs can also be covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U527	Riina, your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U528	The bill has been digitally delivered. I hope we can deal with this quickly. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U529	Thank you, Riina! Let me remind you, there's two minutes to hand over the bill. The draft has already reached the Riigikogu proceedings. There is no further wish to pass on drafts and enquiries, so we have adopted one draft and will decide on this further procedure, as is always the case under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please check your presence!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U530	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 17. We can start the trial nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U531	Our first item today is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid, which we have not discussed yesterday. The initiators will make a presentation by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof. Please! Heljo, a microphone, please! I can't hear you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U532	[[He does, but I can't hear him.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U533	I'm afraid I still can't hear you. We still can't hear you. We can see you, but we can't hear you. Still can't hear. Just in case, I'm asking if anyone else in charge is prepared to come to the remote. Then we'll take a two-minute break from the manager and try to get in touch with Heljo Pikhof so we can solve this technical problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U534	Well, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that we have reached Heljo Pikhof. So much for a little bit more feedback that everyone who has a reason to present their draft today has a recommendation to restore devices when, for example, the computer is still in "sleep mode" from yesterday. Then hopefully the microphones will be compatible with our information system again. But now let's try it again. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U535	Hello, everyone! Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U536	Yes, very nicely. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U537	First of all, one clarification: the draft is the draft of the Social Democratic Party Group and Raimond Kaljulaid. But once again, hello to everyone, both the manager and colleagues! Today, I have the honour to present the draft initiated by our political group and by Mr Kaljulaid. This is a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act 281. The purpose of the draft is to provide a nursing home for any person in need, regardless of the financial means available to him or his family. Our solution foresees that the nursing home becomes available to the elderly who need it for their pension. The price difference is according to the draft to be borne by the state and the municipality, and the development of an exact financing model remains the responsibility of the government. The financing model would apply to both municipal and private nursing homes. Ladies and gentlemen, Social Democrats have consistently stood for the provision of care that would allow the elderly to cope with their home as long as possible and then, if necessary, to live in a nursing home for a pension. After all, one of the most burning problems in our society is that a person who has worked his whole life and paid taxes is not enough pension to pay for living in a nursing home. It has also put an unjustly heavy burden on the loved ones in need of help, and access to the nursing home is increasingly dependent on the size of the elderly themselves, their children's and grandchildren' wallets. This is unhumane and contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. It is the duty of the state to come to the aid of the people here and change the system so that the family does not have sole responsibility. In 2016, the Government of the Republic approved a welfare development plan for the years 2006 to 2023. We read: "Studies show that access to social services is difficult for those in need of help who have family members with maintenance obligations, since in most municipalities the provision of the service is not financed from the resources of the municipality. The person in need may be left without the necessary assistance if the financial situation of the family members does not allow the purchase of the service or if they do not wish to pay for the service. However, it should be taken into account that maintenance obligations often fall on adult children, who may at the same time have a need to support their own underage children." As a result of population ageing, participation in the labour market in the future may be difficult for more people than today because of the care of an elderly family member. The same document stresses the need to find cross-sectoral sustainable solutions to the problem of care burden and says: "More attention needs to be paid to keeping people who are potentially out of the labour market or away from work due to the burden of care or to bringing them back into employment." Our draft offers sustainable solutions here. As has been said, the burden on family members is unjustly high, both in caring for care and in paying for care. The public sector in Estonia spends too little on long-term care compared to other EU Member States, approximately 0.2 to 0.4% of GDP. At the same time, the World Bank has pointed out in its analysis that in order to improve the situation, costs in this area should rise to 21⁄2%. The European Commission's report has also highlighted the underfunding of our nursing homes, the scarcity of places and the unfairly high price level compared to the average pension. As we all know, poverty is high among older people, while the population is ageing. The proportion of people aged 65 and over is projected to increase to nearly 26% of the population by 2040. However, studies show that annual growth in the share of the recipient's own and his family in basic costs and liabilities is increasing. There are currently tens of thousands of people living in Estonia who have to arrange long-term care for their loved ones. Ten thousand are so busy that they have given up their paid work. As Estonian society ages, the number of people in need of care will also increase. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, in 2018 people paid 53 million euros for the care home service, consisting of the pensions of the elderly themselves and the sums paid by children and grandchildren, which were set to offset the pension and the home fee. At the same time, the state and local authorities spent 14 million euros on nursing home services. In this respect, it is quite appropriate to refer to the following data. In 2008, when the cost of care services was 11 million for the state and municipalities, people paid a total of 17.5 million. In ten years, the cost of local governments had increased by just three million euros, while the amount of money to be borne by people had increased by 35.5 million euros. If we look back in time, we will see that in 2019 the average old-age pension was 480 euros and 746 euros had to be paid on average per month for the nursing home. In some places, the cost of nursing homes was 1300 euros per month, and more than that, it depends on what it was made up of. Children and grandchildren are the ones who currently have to pay the price difference. The share of the recipient and his family in paying for the place of care has increased steadily. While it was 65% in 2010, it has risen to 76% in 2016 and to 80% in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's society is ageing, and in these conditions it is necessary to pay more attention to the dignity of a person's evening of life at the level of the state and local governments, as well as in the private sector. For the most part of the time, we can manage our lives nicely, we are active at a high age, and this helps to maintain social relations, as well as physical and mental health, but at one point outside help is inevitable. We will then face a number of care-related bottlenecks and concerns that need to be resolved. The organisation and cost of care are of great concern to the elderly, and no one wants to remain a burden on their children and grandchildren. The concerns of older people about their future cause them depression, even suicidal thoughts at worst, because for some, the situation is inescapable. Under the leadership of the Social Democrats, we have repeatedly discussed the topic of informal care in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu and have made proposals to improve the situation. We can say that, in any case, it is urgent to develop a modern and comprehensive care system that will allow the elderly to stay in and to cope with their home as long as possible and, if necessary, to live in a nursing home for their pension. According to different calculations, our bill would cost EUR 40 million a year if it came into force as a law. The calculations by the Ministry of Social Affairs show that this would be even less. If we look at other countries, then in developed countries, which we consider ourselves to be, care insurance usually takes place or the amount of a person's own pension is taken into account, with sufficient allowance being left to the person living in a nursing home. If we look at more data from the Ministry of Social Affairs, about 13,000 people use nursing home services each year. As has been said, our financing model would apply to both local authorities, which account for around 60% of service providers, and private nursing homes, which account for 40% of service providers. According to the draft, the maximum amount of own contribution of the person receiving the service is 90% of the pension allocated to him. This means that at least 10% of the pension must remain in the hands of a person living in a nursing home. Finally. In a situation where older people's poverty is one of the largest in Europe and, together with the ageing population, the number of people in need of care is increasing, and services are becoming more expensive, action must be taken now and immediately that the current arrangement, where the child or grandson has no advantage in living his or her life, in order to enable him or her to spend the evening of her life with dignity, is not appropriate for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U538	Thank you, Mrs. Pikhof! You have questions too. Peter Ernits asks the first question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U539	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm well aware of the World Bank's analysis. Well, he's embarrassed. But I'm gonna ask you two questions. Firstly, the Social Democrats have been in power for a long time, and the problem is not new. Why hasn't this thing shifted since you were in power to find 30 or 40 million? And secondly, how many people or households do not really need such help? Do you have any information on how many pensions or incomes or material opportunities exclude it or, meaning, no point in spending public money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U540	Perhaps first, in answer to your first question, I would say that, if the Social Democrats were to bear the responsibility of government on the post of the Minister for Social Protection, it was only one year in 2004, if I am not wrong, and during that time one of our basic election promises was fulfilled, that was a triple increase in child support. And there were a number of other child-related proposals that we had made, and one of them is raising the support for children with disabilities, etc., etc. Unfortunately, you can't do everything in one year. But, of course, at that time too, the issues of social welfare were discussed both in the government and in the ministry, and they took a major step forward. All the more so as we are surprised that the bill has still not been reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U541	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U542	Thank you very much. Good Heljo! I will start by saying that this is a very important problem and this is a very good turnaround in itself. Of course, we all understand this concern very well. I do not want to talk at all about this situation, which can be defined as an inescapable situation, but at the same time I would like to point out that, as always, the whole left side is always accompanied by such a one-stick principle. In this case, the same. This bill provides for a situation in which a nursing home is intended for everyone, regardless of the financial means of the person who wishes it or his family. Isn't that the kind of thing that's a little overstretched on this side? Do you not feel that such a situation fosters a reckless attitude toward the older generation? And I also note that in the end, it may also be contrary to the principles of our constitution, or the principle of equal treatment, if everything so indiscriminately hits with one stick. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U543	Thank you. On the contrary, there's no way to hit one stick. It can be said that less than half of those in need now receive services due to insufficient funding and availability of services, I mean long-term care services, and some 69000 people receive assistance, while the real need is about 119000 people. The greatest need is, of course, for home services, which are also provided by local authorities today, but at a very different level, depending on who is in power, and, of course, on the financial opportunities available to local authorities. There are now 6617 people available for home services, but in fact, research suggests that they need 20,000 people. And if the general care service, i.e. the nursing home, uses about 13,000 people, then the need would be 16400 people. Perhaps I would stress once again that some people who are currently in nursing homes could be in their own home if there were more home services. However, our bill still foresees that if a person cannot cope in any way at home, he would be able to be assessed if necessary, if it can be seen that this need is high, that it is possible to be in a nursing home, for his pension. In any case, it is a question of dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U544	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U545	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, There is a crisis going on, which has actually been going on for a year, and so many people have become unemployed, so many people have just dried up their wages. Does this crisis now affect this proposal in one direction or another? Maybe you can dissect this side.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U546	Thank you for your question. In fact, there are women who are caring for older people, often or not often, but mostly women who are caring for older people, not always. A lot of women are now out of work. And we've read in the press columns, for example, that they had no choice but to take my loved one out of the nursing home. This also means that their return to the labour market is a matter of great concern. We need to think that if a person needs help all the time, i.e. 24/7 someone must be close to him and help him, his loved one cannot go to work. Of course, there are people who have made this commitment and have wanted to be at home with a loved one. That's different. However, those people who have still been forced to stay away from the labour market, in a way or in another, either have either been unemployed or have lost their pay, have not taken this money anywhere, and the home fee has risen even 100 euros in some places since April this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U547	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U548	Good manager and waitress! Again, the subject is very important and painful, and I have felt it for a long time. Indeed, you had one year for the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Finance Ivari Padar may have been in office for a few years, but Eiki Nestor has been in the Riigikogu from the beginning of time to the latest. Why has the problem not been solved? Because really this World Bank report shows that we are still in a very sad state with our tiny percentage. Why is that, or who's it been standing behind? If we come back to the question of Paul Puustusmaa again, then we are an e-state and we could have an overview of who really needs it or who doesn't have to hit it with one shovel in an integrated way. But the problem is extremely serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U549	Actually, our bill doesn't say one shovel is hit, our bill says how much you can ask a person about a pension. Maybe I'll give you an example from my hometown. In Tartu, you have to keep 220 euros in your hands. If the family goes, say, to ask the city for help in paying for the place of nursing home, then at least 220 euros per family member will be left. Let's say there's a family of three, 660 euros. But imagine that you might have to live ten years with that kind of money. Close ones get into poverty and, of course, the elderly pensioner feels very poor in this situation too. Now, speaking of the time when Eiki Nestor was in power, not in power, but in government and the Minister of Social Affairs, too, a lot of things were done. The sickness fund system, the unemployment fund system, which we have very grateful, and a number of other issues. I remember that there was also the issue of pensions on the agenda, and there was no telling where to take this pension money, because the previous government had spent everything. But what else would I like to say? As you ladies and gentlemen remember, both in April and October, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the long-term care burden" submitted by the Social Democratic Party was discussed in this large Chamber. Helmen Kütt, who introduced the draft, commented and answered the questions, also brought a chronology of long-term care about how long-term care has been addressed. I will also say a few numbers here. Since 2002 the development of the Social Welfare Development Plan started for the years 2005 to 2015 to ensure that health care and social work work go hand in hand; 2015 to 2017 the Administrative Burden Task Force worked; August 2017: the government approves the proposals for financing of primary care provision for the years 2018 to 2021; December 2017: the government endorses the recommendations of long-term care policy and again the work of the Task Force; in 2018 the Ministry of Social Affairs will put together the concept of long-term care on the basis of the work of the Task Force; December 2018: the government confirms this concept, i.e. this concept has already been endorsed; 2019: the Ministry of Social Affairs will undertake a detailed intervention plan on how to build up the long-term care system; and January 2020: the government confirms the plan for the development of long-term care. And by the end of 2020, the Ministry of Social Affairs will present a draft law on long-term care. I haven't seen that intention yet, but we realize it's been a difficult time. Now we can read the following goal from the government's 100-day plan: "We will organise a long-term care system with the aim of preventing and reducing the need for long-term care, alleviating the burden of care for loved ones and supporting the provision of home services. " Again, the analysis begins: "We are analysing alternative financing models (including care insurance) to reduce people's ownership and increase access to services. " Activities include: "Analysis and proposals on sustainable organisation and financing models for long-term care and the development of a support package for carers. " The deadline is 18 March 2021. In fact, in one part, we have a proper draft drawn up by the Social Democrats, which needs to be enforced immediately and now as a law. I don't think we have time to wait here, every decision we've made, and every year, there's more problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U550	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U551	[[He does, but I can't hear him.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U552	Aivar, we can't hear you. Aivar, please wait! We can't hear you. Can you check your audio settings? Aivar! Unfortunately, we can't hear Aivar Kokka right now. Then we must ask Aivar Kokal and Heljo Pikhofi to clarify the question they had. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U553	Thank you, good manager. Good Heljo! I ask about this: in fact, the fact that children and grandchildren have to bear this financial burden for a nursing home is partly due to our laws that impose maintenance obligations on children and grandchildren. How do you feel about that being fair? Does this principle, which is in the law, actually put too much weight on the loved ones who are in a difficult situation if their parent or grandparent cannot cope on their own? And would it make sense to have this type of change in the legal space, as Finland and the Netherlands have done, where the maintenance obligation is not to carry a family of this size, but the municipality comes to the aid of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U554	Thank you for your question. Of course it would. As I have also pointed out in figures, let's say, the amounts that children or grandchildren have to retire in addition, so that an elderly person can stay in a nursing home or receive services at home, if he can and can still cope with it himself, have increased. Let's just say that in most developed countries, it is not the case that all responsibility is placed on the family, i.e. children and grandchildren. We'll take the Finnish model or whatever. We are honest, there are also families where, let's say, pensioners, 65-year-olds pay for the nursing home of their elderly parent. Let's say if there's still a single child, he should pay for being in his mother's and father's nursing home when they can't cope at home. Actually, yeah, if it's just a family to carry, it's too heavy a burden. And let's just say that if this money is paid by a child and this child still has children who go to school, in hobby groups, and maybe there are more, then in fact, yes, this pressure on the family is too great. When I've been seeing older people, they've said they're going to go to sleep at night when they think about what can happen one day, when they can't do it on their own, when children don't have enough income and they still have living expenses, they have to pay for the apartment, etc. Nobody wants to be a burden to anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U555	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U556	Thank you. Good Heljo! This is certainly a very important issue. And it is a pleasure that the Social Affairs Committee has also decided that it is so worthy of a bill that it should continue to be dealt with in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. My question is also slightly due to the current situation, the situation, the crisis that we have in the area of health. This health crisis has also caused some people to become unemployed and to lose all or part of their jobs. My question is this: have you, Heljo, analyzed this draft, or have you also looked at whether the current situation could result in families being forced to take their elderly parents out of the nursing home because they simply cannot pay for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U557	Indeed, as I said before, we have read in the press that I have also been approached by a number of people when I have attended meetings, or I have been called, not lately, but a month or two ago, has raised the subject of not having, say, the financial capacity to pay for more retirement so that the elderly can be in a nursing home. Once again, I can give you just one example. The place of nursing home in Tartu costs more than 1100 euros per month. Old man gets a pension, say, 500 euros or, in good case, 600, but half the money still needs to be added, and so every month. Just one mother with babies approached me and told me that her mother and father had left the world, so she should pay for her nursing home. Now he's forced to bring Grandma home. He can't imagine how he could go to work when his parental leave ends.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U558	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U559	Now I'm gonna test it just in case. Am I being heard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U560	Very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U561	Good Heljo! You said that a few times, there are not many countries where all maintenance obligations are left on children. In fact, in the truth, countries have chosen two different paths in a large line. In one case, parents have a maintenance obligation towards their children, for example in Estonia until the age of 21, if the child is still in education, and the other way, children also become obliged to their parents when they are old and unable to work, or to other close relatives. Estonia has chosen this model. This bill you're presenting will only solve one small part of this question. Doesn't it make any sense for you to take more of this path, where indeed this obligation of parents towards your children would be reduced equally, and then the responsibility of children towards their parents, if they were to reach heights, would be reduced? I don't know if you understand my question. We have chosen the German model, but there are other models.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U562	Thank you. As you well know, from our parents, we never wanted to take away the responsibility. Let us recall, even if it were a livelihood fund, which helps to ensure that aid is also guaranteed for those who do not want to take care of their children or pay them a living allowance. No, that's not the way we're gonna go. Caring for the children remains on the parents'shoulders. [[The connection's breaking up.]] But in certain situations, let's say, when a person has worked his whole life and paid taxes, but then, if he really has a need, paying for a nursing home is left to the children. Although a child or grandson is happy to help and care for his or her loved ones. However, this is not the subject now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U563	All right. Let's try it again. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U564	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U565	Now it's nice to hear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U566	Any word?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U567	Yeah, that's nice to hear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U568	I have a question. When we talk today about nursing homes and the cost and payment of a nursing home, a lot of countries are going down this road of trying to keep a person at home as long as possible, help him and support his home. Is it also intended to support or finance families where the elderly are kept in their homes and are helped with dignity in their old age?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U569	Of course we've thought about it. As I said at the beginning, we are twice as many! A draft decision has been submitted to the Riigikogu for discussion in order to propose to the Government of the Republic legislative changes to solve the problem of long-term care burden. And one of the issues was that local authorities would also receive more money from the state to make these services available and affordable in each municipality. Then it would be possible for a person to stay as long as he can, in his own home, in his own home. That is what all elderly people want, and no one wants to be in a nursing home without need.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U570	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U571	Thank you very much. Good Heljo! Is there any way you can describe how this funding should work? Because, as we know, the age distribution of people varies greatly from region to region, and some municipalities would then face a huge burden and this could still cause problems in the local government budget. How is this financial allocation supposed to be, and how should the money move so that the local authority can handle its commitments in this new light?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U572	This is where we have entrusted the Government of the Republic with the task of the Government of the Republic to establish by regulation a financing model for general care services and specified requirements regarding the components of the person's own contribution costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U573	Aivar Chef, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U574	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, I want to thank you. This topic is really important and it concerns almost all Estonian families. I ask you if you are not afraid that if we make a decision to support only nursing home payment, care elsewhere is not supported by this bill, then simply the prices of nursing homes will rise drastically, but at the same time very many families still want to keep and support their parents in their homes, but they are not supported by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U575	Thank you. Even now, local authorities are also obliged to provide home services to people in their area. But, of course, if we are now talking about the fact that perhaps prices are going too high or whatever, then the municipality has the opportunity to announce contracts for the purchase of places, also to check the quality-price ratio agreed in the contract, and to do so regularly. We still do not have such a high level of control, for example, as to how many workers there are in the nursing home, whether there are enough and what qualifications they are, even though qualification requirements have now been introduced in some way. We don't have that. We don't even have a chance to control the price-quality ratio. Perhaps in some places people pay very much for their nursing home.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U576	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U577	Thank you. Indeed, it is very surprising to me that the care home service or such a general care service is something that is so much afraid of excessive consumption and price risk. For me, it's a parallel with more intensive care. Just like that, a person who can't help himself in any way gets intensive care as needed. Even now, when intensive care needs are very high, this does not mean an increase in the price of intensive care, because this price is cost-oriented. And on the other hand, there's no one standing outside the ICU door saying he'd really like to get that service. "Let me in, I agree with all kinds of procedures. " It is still a professional or professional decision. And exactly the same with a nursing home: a needs-based service and a cost-based price. In that case, Heljo, do you see that it could actually be freely available to everyone for a pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U578	Absolutely agree. If the need is appreciated, there's no way at home, then yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U579	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U580	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Good fellows! First of all, I would like to clarify the false claim that we have chosen the German model. We have indeed chosen the German model in much of the legislation, but not in welfare. In Germany, there is care insurance, and there are people who are close to a certain income who do not pay for it, but who, in their lifetime, collect that money. We're in a different situation. But I have a question for the waitress. Do you think now that a lot of people are moving on health services paid by the Health Insurance Fund and not likely to be so much of a need, but simply because people do not have to pay for the place of care, and therefore are directed to long-term care or nursing care for a certain time, we, as a state, are in fact, in fact, often spending improperly on the funds of the Health Insurance Fund? If there was clarity in the house, would there be little savings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U581	Thank you for your question. Absolutely agree. Indeed, often when a person does not yet have a nursing home, but obviously it is needed, a long - term care service is used instead of a nursing home. Yeah, I'm afraid that's true. But I'm really glad you got that German example right here, I missed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U582	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Priit Sibul is next expected to represent the Commission's view. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U583	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the important issue raised by the Social Democratic Party Group and Raimond Kaljulaid, Bill 281, in its three sessions. It should be pointed out that at the first sitting of the Commission, the draft was discussed in substance, while at the second and third sitting only formal decisions were taken. At the first sitting, where there was a substantive debate, which was on 14 December, this bill was presented to us by my dear colleague, Heljo Pikhof, just as he did here. The position of the Government of the Republic was represented by Ketri Kupper, who acknowledged the initiators of the draft for raising this important issue, but said that the government does not support this draft in this way. Some of the problems raised by the government through a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. First of all, it seemed as if only nursing homes run by local authorities were being considered, not special care homes. It must be said in advance that this was certainly not the intention of the initiators of the draft, and Heljo Pikhof later said that the aim is to support all nursing homes and carers in a uniform manner, regardless of their ownership. At the moment, there is a linguistic error in the draft, and if the large hall continues to process the draft, it will certainly be removed from the draft and corrected as such. A representative of the Ministry noted the problem, namely the Ministry did not understand where the 40 million came from. In this respect, the initiators of the draft said that they were actually in contact with the Ministry of Finance and that this was not the sum of the initiators themselves, but that this cost was calculated on the basis of the data received from the Ministry of Finance. Then the representative of the Ministry said that according to the draft, the Government of the Republic should introduce a financing model for general care services and specified requirements for the components of the person's own contribution. The representative of the Ministry explained that both the financing model and the financing principles should certainly be laid down at the level of the law, as it imposes an obligation on the various parties to participate in the financing of the service. The price components of the service can be regulated at the level of the Regulation. Kupper noted that the Ministry of Social Affairs has prepared a memorandum this year proposing harmonisation of the principles of caring allowance payment and the development of a support package for carers. The Memorandum proposes that the government implement component financing for the general care service as of 2022. Upon the entry into force of this model, the financing of the service would be distributed in such a way that the local government would, of course, pay 67% for the maintenance service, and the local authorities would have to support local governments from the state budget, as local authorities themselves have no such money and 33% would have to pay for accommodation, personal medicines and so on. Its impact on the state budget in 2022 would be EUR 30 million, EUR 32 million in 2025, and local authorities would have to contribute approximately EUR 10 million. Then a good colleague, Signe Riisalo, who is already curating in this area today, asked the Ministry of Social Affairs for written information on the impact of the component-based financing model of the general care service provided outside the home on the state budget. This was also sent to the members of the Commission. Tõnis Mölder had a question for the initiators of the draft. Tõnis Mölder was then known to be chairman of the committee, currently curating the environment. He had a question that if the cost of this draft was EUR 40 million, would the initiators expect it to come from the local government budget? The initiators of the draft act replied that no, there is a clear need for state budget support for local authorities to provide this service. Then the debate went on the party programs. Mr Mölder stated that the Centre Party had discussed this issue at length and in depth and that they supported the application of the compulsory care insurance tax and asked whether the Social Democratic Party had a position on this issue. The representatives of the Social Democratic Party said that they, as a political party, do not have a final position on this, i.e. a mandatory, care insurance tax. Then my good colleague, Helmen Hunt, had a question as to why the older policy of the Commission, which is the minister's advisory committee, and the contents of the memorandum that had been drawn up for the Social Committee had not been presented in the past. In this respect, Ketri Kupper stated that since this work and members of the Senior Policy Committee were being reviewed, the memorandum had not been presented. Helmen Kütt rightly said that this does not mean that the various parties should not be involved in the substantive work when the Ministry is reviewing the work of one committee or another. And we still have to communicate with our partners. Subsequently, decisions were taken by the Commission. The proposal was such that the draft would be in the large hall on 13 January. It is remembered that this debate did not take place in this large Chamber on 13 January. I do not know whether this was about the foresight of the Social Democratic Party Group or about pure chance, but it has to be said afterwards that they probably had the right decision that it was not then dealt with. On 14 December the Commission had such a proposal that it should be rejected at first reading. The draft was to be presented by Urmas Espenberg. In the meantime, many circumstances have changed, and the day after Valentine's Day, 15 February, when the Commission discussed this issue again, it was decided that this draft should be discussed in plenary on 9 March. It has now become 10 March, because yesterday we had another important issue on this agenda. It was decided that the Commission would report to me. And on Women's Day, it was decided that the first reading of this bill should be completed. This was the Commission's consensual proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U584	Thank you. There are no questions. So we can go to the negotiations. Mr Vassilyev would like to speak first on behalf of the central group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U585	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to talk about a specific bill, but about welfare in general: what will happen to me and you in this Chamber and on the other side of the screen if we are no longer able to manage our lives on our own. Who's gonna help us, and who's gonna pay for this whole thing? Our population is ageing, which is why we need to seriously consider possible welfare solutions. The sector needs more attention and funding due to the growth in demand. We need to improve access to care services, increase service volumes, etc. I am not going to repeat all the numbers, the money numbers and the percentages that were already said when the bill was presented, but it is quite clear that the funding is inadequate. The percentage of GDP is also much, many times lower than in those countries that we would like to keep up with. The disproportionate amount of funding for the service falls to the recipient and his family members. We need, yes, a sustainable and combined financing model and an understanding that social spending is investment to improve the well-being of all of us. One option is to continue with the current just-to-need-based solution, where a person pays as much as possible for the service, but to increase the contribution of the state and local authorities to ensuring the availability and quality of care services. As a change, a minimum standard of living limit is set for the person receiving the service, which must remain in the person's hands after receiving the service. But personally, I would support another model, a solidarity-based care insurance system similar to that of unemployment and sickness insurance. In order to implement this model, it would be best to allocate these functions to an existing institution, such as a sickness fund or an unemployment fund. At the same time, financial resources for financing long-term nursing care and care services could be mobilised in the appropriate cash register, and services for people with high maintenance needs such as nursing care, general care, day-round special care services, etc. In this context, we could also consider setting levels of care requirements with corresponding benefits and allowing everyone to provide care services in particular according to their needs. When paying for long-term care services, we should be based precisely on a need-based approach and on the fact that those in need of lower incomes will receive significantly greater support from the public sector. That is why I think it is right in the coming years to change the financing of general care services by introducing a model for paying for a component-based service. For this model, the financing of the service is divided into three. First of all, the care service is paid by the local government, assuming that the state contributes 50% of it and the local government pays another 50%. Secondly, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund pays for the care component for the general care service. Thirdly, the recipient himself bears the cost of accommodation, catering and medicine. The financing of long-term care needs to be substantially increased in the coming years to ensure the creation of new services and to increase the volume of services. It is hoped that the European Union will also provide support for the development of services. Separately, the state must lend a helping hand to informal care, ensure competitive pay for the sharing of the most important social resources and for the people involved. There is also a need to further develop services and training that are extremely necessary to support inherent carers. The care system developed over decades is neither fair nor sustainable. We should change it radically. Only in the case of fundamental changes will we be able to guarantee the well-being of people throughout the life cycle. And this should be one of the main goals of each country, of course Estonia's. With only half a minute left at the beep, I would quote from the classics and not from the classics of Marxism and Leninism, but from the "Springs" of Oskar Luts. What did Teacher Laur say? If you can't do the whole thing, make it to the side. Everybody knows, right? But actually, the sentence was a little longer. "If the whole thing doesn't work, make it to the side of the road, but do it well," said teacher Laur. Be well! It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U586	Next on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Helmen Kütt, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U587	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleagues here and there on the screen! I'm gonna start a little further away, and I'm gonna get to today's bill. Last year, the Social Democrats twice submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu for discussion of the large hall "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the problem of long-term maintenance burden." These draft decisions provided for the possibility that the government would put in place a comprehensive plan that would have looked at the whole system, in particular with regard to integrated health care and care. The services offered by local governments and the calculation of the volume required for them, together with the timetable for the date of entry into force, would have given the government a free hand to present the plan and also to the people of Estonia how the long-term care burden problem is planned to be solved. There were drafts on 21 April and 27 October, but unfortunately they did not receive the 51 necessary votes and fell out of the procedure. This was despite the fact that the Prime Minister's Party, or Central Party, had promised solutions to the long-term care problem in the run-up to the elections. Today, there is a bill before you that has already been thoroughly presented by a good party partner, Heljo Pikhof. This would tie children and grandchildren and other loved ones away from the destiny of a slave in a nursing home and, more importantly, would treat elderly people with children and without children equally. This bill is not a comprehensive solution, but a first step. But by supporting it, you are signaling, and the government is actually going to be systematically looking for solutions. Because the need for additional financial resources for long-term care is unknown to anyone. The point of the bill before you is to provide human-centred and dignified care for all those in need. At the right time, in the right place and in the right service, still to make life more beautiful and dignified. Believe me, this bill doesn't force people into nursing homes, on the contrary. Your home is usually the best place for a person. In order to cope as long as possible at home, to cope there and to spend your old age, there is a need to increase public funding to improve the availability of open care services for local authorities and to create additional services, thereby also reducing the burden of care and people's own contribution to paying for care. All measures need to support the freedom of decision-making and self-sufficiency of the individual. This model is better for people and cheaper for municipalities and the state. The essential elements of this model are home care, personal helper, support person service, adaptation of homes from ensuring physical accessibility to providing technical and smart innovative solutions, social transport, service houses and day-care centres for both elderly and dementias. And all the more so that a person can live in his own home as long as possible. At present, receiving or not receiving a service often depends on the place of residence. In the event of a change in health status and an increase in the need for help, the services provided may no longer allow the person in need to cope at home. If a person wants a place of general care, the difference between the pension and the place tax should be paid by the local government, according to the model that would ensure that the local government can decide for itself when the state allocates funds. The municipality can decide whether to create open care services for this money, which are cheaper and better for the person, or, if it has such an obligation, to pay the pension gap to pay the place tax for the nursing home. He makes this decision because of the case order and the need for human help. This certainly does not mean that local authorities are forced to build more nursing homes, but if they so wish, it is certainly an opportunity. In Finland, local authorities can purchase nursing homes from private companies and then check whether the service they provide is of high quality and also corresponds to what is promised before and after the procurement. The year 2021, which is now in hand, does not really change the cost of a nursing home, at least in the light of what the state has proposed, for the relatives and loved ones who pay for their loved ones. The municipalities are undoubtedly good at trying to do their best. On the contrary, given that the price increase in the elderly's homes is ahead or already in January, in a situation where the earners' income has decreased or disappeared, where wage support or, in the worst case, the unemployment fund has been paid, the state has not offered any mitigating measures. We have heard from local governments that families are being exempted from the place tax for kindergarten, which is a very good and correct decision, but for some reason it has not been heard that any such measures and support have been offered in the last part of the life cycle. At the same time, the family law applies to both the descending and the ascendant. Perhaps this one question, which was asked here: why are we acting differently towards children? For children, we have very many benefits, starting with child support, and we are also one of Europe's richest compensation providers regarding parental benefit. That's very right. But to our elderly, we owe. Good fellows! As the Committee on Social Affairs changed its earlier draft, which was rejected at first reading on Monday, and changed it so as to conclude the first reading of the draft, there is still hope that the new government will take longer steps and will not just be able to talk about the need to find solutions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U588	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 281. We have finished our first reading and I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 24 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U589	Our second item today is the third reading of Bill 315 of the Act amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. First of all, it is possible for the political groups to speak during the negotiations. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission has proposed a final vote on this draft. Let's get ready for this. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on the draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 315. I would like to draw your attention once more to the fact that this is a bill that requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U590	88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of adopting the bill as a law, no one was against, one was impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U591	Our third item on the agenda today is draft law 295 on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is also possible for the political groups to speak here. First of all, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, Natalia Malleus. Please, Natalia Malleus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U592	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act at third reading in the Riigikogu solves a number of problems related to the field. Firstly, the possibility of contractual relationships with family parents in family homes is extended in replacement care. Because of the need to provide family-like services, family parents' time is not currently within the framework of the Employment Contracts Act and therefore work must be done on the basis of a contract of command. This, however, does not guarantee the necessary social guarantees for the family parent. For example, sickness insurance is paid out or suspended, but family parents have not been covered by health insurance and the right to a mother to be transferred or released from work when pregnant is not guaranteed or to receive compensation accordingly. And there are other differences. Secondly, the amendment extends the scope for more flexible use of support funds by the secondary care service target group and local authorities. The amendment will ensure greater legal clarity in the direction of aftercare for young people who continue to acquire their education during the post-care period, which is now going to take place somewhat longer. The possibility for local authorities to finance after-care services from the Fund will also be broadened if the young person has interrupted his/her studies after leaving replacement care but decides to continue them after a while. The draft creates the possibility of receiving family benefits, such as child benefit, child allowance for guardianship, single parent child allowance, child-rich family allowance as well as disability student allowance and disability parent allowance, if a child up to 19 years of age is included in the in-service training course of the state institution managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The amendment concerns children aged 13 years and over who are not in possession of student status and are therefore deprived of this support. In addition, we are amending the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities. There, we wish to grant the disabled parent's allowance and the student's student's student's student's education allowance, as well as the child and his or her parent who are included in the list of continuing education courses with inpatient education at the Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre. Parents of disabled children whose child is up to 19 years of age or students with disabilities who study in the adaptation and work training courses of the Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre will also be entitled to benefit. The granting of the right to benefit ensures that people are treated in a dignified and equal manner. The grants will be managed purposefully to families with children who, due to the provisions of the current law, have been sadly deprived of support so far in comparison with the child and his family who continue their studies in the educational institution. As you could see, these are the necessary changes, which are primarily aimed at those people who need more attention. I therefore ask you to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U593	Mr Tarmo Tamm, this is already the third reading of this draft, which is why only the representatives of the political groups could speak. The political groups have no further requests to speak. Let's start preparing the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a vote before you on the draft Act 295 amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U594	88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the bill as a law, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U595	Let us move to the fourth item on the agenda: the Prime Minister's review of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. Before giving the floor to the Prime Minister, I would remind you that the Prime Minister's presentation lasts up to 25 minutes, then every member of the Riigikogu will have one opportunity for an oral question and, after the round of questions has been exhausted, only the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak during the negotiations. Prime Minister, the Chair is yours. So it's virtual this time. Now, please, let's check the sound settings. We can't hear you again, Echo. We have to take a three-minute break. We learned from IT that it would be good to have a reset for a moment, so we could get the microphone settings back on the system. Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U596	Can you hear me now? Oh, okay. Very good!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U597	Ladies and gentlemen, we have made good contact with the Prime Minister again. Prime Minister, please! You have your word.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U598	Okay. Thank you. Everything works. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I guess this operation and failure of technology are also a part of the R &amp; D that obviously still needs to be developed. The year 2020 was memorable in relation to the pandemic. For researchers, this led to changes in work processes, both in new, urgent research mothers and in the work of less practiced scientific advice. If you look for a positive path, it will certainly be a significant increase in the role of science and the scientific community in solving the concerns of the state and society. The situation of the pandemic has illustrated that countries with a strong and diverse scientific base are better prepared for such surprises. Estonian scientists have also excelled in their ability to react quickly and are among other things valued partners in trans-European networks. I also thank and congratulate the scientific council that advises the government, who has contributed to the COVID crisis. They have been advising the government on a regular basis for almost a year, under the leadership of Professor Irja Lutsar, preparing advice that has had a significant impact on Estonia's life during this period and helped the country to cope with the corona. In addition to the Scientific Advisory Board, several other good people have contributed. The monitoring data collected regularly by Professor Ruth Kalda's team provide a reliable estimate of the virus's spread. Also, thanks to Professor Tanel Tenson and his team, every week we have new data on the presence of the virus in the waste water. This information refers both to the approaching outbreaks of viruses and to their extinction in the region. All in all, based on these studies, we can make knowledge-based decisions in a rapidly changing and difficult-predicted situation. It is difficult to overestimate researchers' research into COVID-19 and its effects in a wide range of areas of life, including security of supply, mental health, education, anti-viral material and socio-economic effects of the crisis. This knowledge is important to us in dealing with the long-term effects of the crisis. Last year's research barometer, which assesses the trust of Estonian people in science, confirms that 89% of the population in Estonia sees scientists as experts. In Germany, for example, this percentage is 64%. We must realise that investment in science is long-term. Today, we are tasting the fruits of our investments yesterday and the day before yesterday, and our decisions and investments today create better conditions for future generations. I would like close cooperation with scientists to continue after the pandemic has been brought to an end, and this is already the case for the next challenges. I am thinking of major challenges, such as climate issues and the associated green turns, which require substantial leadership and must be based on the latest scientific information. In 2020, Estonia's strategy for R &amp; D &amp; I in 2014-2020 ended. In order to ensure a high level of research in Estonia and to increase diversity, the volume of basic research funding as well as research grants, funded centres of excellence in research and supported university development have been increased. In terms of publication, money has been invested, and the efforts of scientists have borne fruit. The number of high-level articles per million inhabitants in 2019 was 2072 which exceeded the target of 1600 articles for 2020. Of all high-level scientific publications, 8.4% are among the world's 10% most quoted scientific publications, which are slightly below the target, as this target was 11%. The objective of protecting the doctorate has also not been met. The goal was 300, but 221 PhDs were protected. We can also talk about how to change this trend. Several innovations have been carried out to increase the social impact of Estonian science. Research advisors have been employed in ministries and branches of companies to carry out research and development activities in these institutions and to organise close cooperation with universities. Scientific advisors are also taking science into policy in all other areas, and the impact of this action is undoubtedly important. In addition, thematic R &amp; D programmes have been developed based on business needs in the areas of ICT and resource enhancement. This resource enhancement programme creates prerequisites for the creation of new, high-value-added products that replace oil-based materials and contribute to health through biochemical enhancement of wood and novel food technologies. In 2019, according to Statistics Estonia, private R &amp; D investments increased by 85.8 million. The private R &amp; D expenditure amounted to €246.8 million. This represents 0.88% of gross domestic product, which, however, is well below the 2% target for 2020. Much of these investments have been made in the information technology sector; no magic wand has yet been found to reach traditional sectors. Productivity has increased rapidly in recent years, reaching 78.8% of the EU average in 2019, but remains below the target. Experts estimate that without the private sector's systematic R &amp; D, it will also be very difficult to get there from here. But that will mean a real test for us, and I'll tell you about it from now on. We also aim to increase the participation and visibility of Estonia in international cooperation in research and development and innovation. Estonia has been active in the European Union's research and development framework programme Horizon 2020 and the volume of contracts won per capita was 241% of the European Union average in 2019. The competence of Estonian scientists has excelled. The choice of Maarja Kruusmaa, professor of computer systems at the Tallinn University of Technology Institute, as one of the seven chief scientific advisors of the European Commission, is certainly a tribute to Estonia as a whole. These seven people give the European Commission expert advice on policy development and decision-making, in other words, they affect the lives of some 446 million people living in the European Union. I also wish Professor Maarja Kruusmaa much wisdom in shaping these decisions or recommendations of great weight. Honourable Riigikogu! Now, let's turn our eyes forward. The great French mathematician Henri Poincaré has written that science is built on facts, just as a house is built up of stones, but an unorganized set of facts is as much a science as a pile of stone is a house. The country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" sets us strategic values. In order to achieve these goals, we must make an effort in every area of life. They are also the basis for the new R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship development plan R &amp; D. For the first time, R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship objectives and lines of action have been integrated into a single R &amp; D &amp; I development plan. This development plan aims at improving the well-being of the entire Estonian society and the productivity of the economy, which is achieved in synergy between science and entrepreneurship. Further development must be based on knowledge-based innovative solutions supported by high-level, effective and diverse Estonian science and a favourable business environment. Science must walk in the same foot as society and its needs, taking the lead. "Today's research must address tomorrow's needs," as Professor Jarek Kurnitski of Tallinn University of Technology has emphasised. Much emphasis is placed on the knowledge transfer of the development plan, which is cooperation between companies and universities. This brings science closer to the economy and society. Under the limited resources of a small country, it makes sense to prioritise your activities. Thus, special attention is paid to Estonia's development needs in five focus areas. These are: firstly, digital solutions in every area of life; secondly, health technologies and services; thirdly, the enhancement of local resources; fourthly, smart and sustainable energy solutions; fifthly, a viable Estonian society, language and cultural space. Together with the state, businesses and research institutions in these areas, we must all work together to provide the basis for rapid economic growth and, on the other hand, to provide solutions to the more important development needs outlined in the "Estonia 2035" strategy, so that secure digital solutions reach all areas, health services improve and offer personal solutions and we use our natural resources more sustainably by introducing new sustainable energy solutions, and the development of the Estonian language and cultural space would not be forgotten at all. Because if we don't, then no one else will. The numeric metrics make these beautiful goals more specific. In addition to the usual funding targets, the new development plan sets the target for productivity growth at 110% of the EU average. At first glance, a very ambitious target. And that is an extremely ambitious goal, but it is feasible when we think through the whole path of how we achieve it. We will maintain and continue to raise the level of our science and improve the working conditions of researchers, including young scientists, so that we can grow on scientists. We fully support the uptake of research results in the private sector. At the beginning of this year, the Entrepreneurship Development Foundation launched a programme to support applied research with a total amount of EUR 23 million. I would certainly like to make sure that the momentum of the programme does not slow down, precisely because these good scientific findings or studies will also bring real benefits to the economy. Money alone is not enough, but we need people who can use all these opportunities. To this end, we are implementing a doctoral reform to get more young people into doctoral studies and to have whom to implement these great plans. That is what we will achieve, I hope, by improving the incomes and social security of doctoral students and reducing uncertainty. We also encourage the mobility of researchers between the academy and the private and public sectors, without which there will be no transfer of knowledge. Rector Tiit Land of Tallinn University of Technology recently stressed that it is time to come down from the ivory tower. The work in the ivory tower must not be neglected either, because where this science otherwise arises, but we hope that an increasing proportion of those receiving a doctorate will find employment in the private sector, so that we can also achieve a higher share of R &amp; D in the private sector. As I said at the beginning, there will be innovation and there will also be competitive advantages. We will achieve more than three times the number of scientists and engineers in the business sector, which is one of the goals of this development plan. These actions alone are not enough to achieve the objectives. We also urgently need to implement a green and digital shift, to which R &amp; D will certainly contribute in selected areas of focus. Doors to international supply chains will not open for our companies if the processes of companies are not digitised. Similarly, cutting edge companies in developed countries require their partners to work well to achieve climate neutrality and resource recovery. This does not mean replacing any individual raw material or packaging, i.e. reviewing the entire business logic and processes on a value-based basis. Many Estonian companies still have this journey ahead of them. This is a unique opportunity for our scientists: to offer technological solutions to Estonian companies to implement the green turn, to test and develop them in order to provide improved solutions outside Estonia later. New technology alone does not change people's ways of thinking, behaviour and preferences. The green turn will cover all disciplines and researchers, from social and behavioural scientists to engineers. The government is ready to take the initiative on these issues and take the lead in change. We are working to ensure that the European Green Agreement, as a model of thought, reaches the people and entrepreneurs of Estonia, and that Estonian scientists and companies are able to benefit from the new growth opportunities associated with the green turn. Estonian investors have already understood the changes. This is confirmed by a strong interest in the so-called green pension funds, which showed excellent results last year. The founder and leader of Skeleton Technologies, Taavi Madiberk, identifies investment and business opportunities related to the European Green Agreement as the biggest after the Internet revolution. I stand for our support for making use of these opportunities not to remain political rhetoric, but for next year, we can talk about the real steps that have been taken. However, apart from economic interests, we must not forget why we are actually doing all this. My wish is that our next generations should not have to fight daily climate crises, whether they be droughts, storms, floods or forest fires. They too need clean water, air, and biodiversity. To do this, you have to change your behavior to every person, every company. It must give priority to things that have confidence, how and according to what values they have been produced. We buy less, fix and divide more. Companies adapt their business models to meet these expectations, reduce resource intensity and use clean energy. Behavior scientists confirm that rapid changes are not very human. Together with scientists, we need to think through the whole journey and the solutions to make these changes happen step by step, to maintain a standard of living and to leave no one behind. Wisely, the situation caused by the pandemic can also be turned into an opportunity to accelerate these processes. We can involve the resources released in many sectors in our future-forming activities. I am pleased that universities have been well aware of their role as a guide. In its new development plan, the University of Tartu stresses the responsibility of the university for solving the challenges facing society. Tallinn University has announced that they will strive for the first climate-neutral university by 2035. A good example is the company of Estonian students who have initiated the construction of a solar-powered vehicle, which will be tested already in October in the world's top universities' competition for reputable solar cars World Solar Challenge. Okay. Woola, a newcomer from Estonia in 2020, is also an example of how recycling and green thinking combined with good business ideas create good prerequisites for rapid growth. In particular, if you ask what this Woola does: they found use for wool which is thrown away every year in Estonia by 153 tons. In cooperation with researchers at the Estonian Academy of Arts, they developed an environmentally friendly alternative to the bubble used as packaging material. It has already received considerable international recognition: the company won the title of the start-up of the year and the main prize at the largest competition for sustainable technology start-ups in Europe, PowerUp. For example, it is used by Tallinn Kaubamaja in its e-shop. I was also curious, I didn't know until I ordered from there, you could have the goods packed in wool wrap. Good listeners! Although we are operating under the conditions of the health and economic crisis, we have good preconditions for achieving these major objectives. The decision to increase public R &amp; D funding to 1% of gross domestic product is crucial. We will continue to maintain this level as promised in the coalition agreement. State funding for R &amp; D will increase more precisely by EUR 56 million in 2021, reaching a total of EUR 286.4 million. Our priority is to reform doctoral studies and increase the capacity of companies to develop and innovate. Humanities funding is also increasing. We must realise that the increase in R &amp; D funding will lead to more work and more responsibility for all parties involved. I hope that we will not spend so much time talking in the future to talk about funding science, but we will be able to talk about strategic choices, that is, what we are using this money for. We expect researchers to take the initiative, and we are open to the recommendations of scientists on how to find solutions to the health and economic crisis, both labour and labour shortages, and how to patch up the various divisions, how to keep health, nature, our language and our people. I would like to thank the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for contributing to the presentation. Many thanks also to universities and all scientists for their efforts during this [last year]! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U599	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The members of the Riigikogu also have questions for you. They're started by Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U600	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, dear waitress. I have a question. We have to have everything science-based, but if the scientific council makes these decisions, we'll just have to know in history that they were made without protocols. Is this knowledge based on so-called anti-knowledge? In the future, we would still like to know the facts on the basis of which the relevant decisions were made. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U601	Thank you for that question. When the question concerned the documents on which the Scientific Advisory Board gives us recommendations, this must be asked first and foremost by the Scientific Advisory Board. Every Tuesday, the scientific council will give us an overview of various studies. Of course it's a summary, we can't read all the studies ourselves. We are presented with a concentrate and a conclusion as to what the scientific council thinks of one thing or another. I understand that there are also a lot of opinions in the Scientific Advisory Board and that researchers have different opinions, that it is equally difficult for them to find a coherent and clear agreement, because they also have different views on different topics. So far, the scientific council has agreed on the recommendations and they will present them to us. But if you're wondering if there's a protocol on this, I haven't read that protocol. I get the reports we get from the office on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U602	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U603	Thank you. Looking at you, I understand that you're... [Community chops] ... everything is fine, even though you have to be in isolation. So power-kick you! But here's my question. A year ago, when we were in opposition together, we caused a government back then, why it still didn't find 1% in the funding of science. The previous government took stock of the RES and budget and found this 1%. Let's hope you keep holding that percentage. But to give certainty to the scientific community, it would make sense to write that percentage into the law. The Social Democrats have also given such a draft to the Riigikogu proceedings. Would you, Echo, support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U604	Thank you. First of all, yes, I'm in self-insulation, but I just got the test result, I'm negative, and I'm getting out of isolation tomorrow. But thank you for your congratulations. Secondly, as regards the [funding] percentage of R &amp; D, indeed, this level has been raised to 1%. We have promised in the coalition agreement that we will continue to do so. But your question was, would it make sense to write into the law? I don't think so. And why? Because we already have a lot of costs in written laws, and if we, as politicians, lock everything down absolutely, it is also very difficult to make different political choices. The years are different. It is certainly my desire to keep this 1% level of investment, precisely because it is R &amp; D that will bring us a more knowledge-based economy in the future. But I don't support writing into the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U605	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U606	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! In the 2021 budget, science was given additional funding, which is divided as follows: 40% MKM, 40% HTM and 20% of research money are distributed between different ministries. My question is above all about this 20%. While there is a mechanism for allocating this money in 2021, there is no mechanism for allocating this money in 2022 and 2023. But science isn't one year old. Here's the question. Do you think it would be possible and possible to agree on a mechanism for allocating research funds for the period 2022 and 2023? So scientists can plan their activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U607	Thank you. That's a good question. The 20% sharing mechanism is still under development, work is under way. This issue will be looked at together with the distribution of euro money for these years. If we are to have a debate on the country's budgetary strategy, we can also look into this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U608	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U609	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for this presentation and thank you for your concern about the growth of young scientists. In addition to the reform of doctoral studies, the Coalition Agreement also mentions the creation of a doctoral degree in entrepreneurship. In a few minutes, can you give us a closer look at its principles and tell us when such a pair of words will be more permanent in our lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U610	Thank you. Indeed, the reform of doctoral studies is precisely because more people would choose the profession of researcher. What is the background of a doctorate in entrepreneurship? Just so we have more engineers who actually go into business, doctors can go into business. Why is this important? This is particularly important because, if you look at the practice in other countries, it is clear that the best way to increase the company's investment in R &amp; D and the introduction of new solutions is to have researchers working there. Perhaps scientists, young scientists or older scientists who are being employed in companies are actually helping to bring these companies to a new level. If we look at the situation in Estonia, we will see that our business has not invested very much in research and development. This would certainly help to increase it. The idea is also to have a practical doctoral thesis. When a person chooses a science path, he explores something with the aim of real innovation. Here is also another thing that we have foreseen: greater support for applied research. Why is that necessary? This is precisely because we have a very good level of basic science, then we have companies and in the meantime there is a chasm. We should help basic science so as to create real innovation in companies. The idea is also that when working in companies, young people or young scientists, who may not even be young, can continue their career as researchers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U611	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U612	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In your background report to the Committee on Culture, you said that funding for research grants and basic funding will also increase by a total of 8 million. At the same time, we know that ETAg, a research agency, will reduce the grant volume of this year by three times, by 10 million. Please specify your estimate. In your words, you have stressed several times that you are particularly supportive of young scientists, but what happens this year is particularly painful for young scientists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U613	Thank you. Indeed, an additional EUR 56 million is planned for R &amp; D by 2021. Including 22.4 million through the Ministry of Education and Research, 22.4 million through the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and 11.2 million to other ministries, according to the 40th:40:20 principle. These ministries have different priorities. The priority of the Ministry of Education and Research is the reform of doctoral studies, which I talked about, EUR 10 million, which should ensure the growth of young researchers, i.e. that young people choose a research profession and can work as a researcher at the university. These are also prerequisites for continuing higher education in Estonian. The increase in research grants and basic financing amounts to 8 million. There is also a new focus area, Estonia, whose content is set at 1 million. In addition, there are more than 3 million permanent funding needs. When you look at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the priority is to increase the development and innovation capacity of companies. These are the basics that should help. Now to your question. If we look at years, this money will still increase, but some money, I understand, is stuck under grants and therefore specific volumes will decrease in the short term. The grants distributed each year depend on the total budget of the final grants and research grants. Research grants are worth as much money in circulation as they are allocated from the state budget each year. This amount will increase when the money is added. Perhaps next year, new projects can only start to the extent to which projects will end this year and how much this budget will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U614	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U615	Thank you. I listened carefully and must say that I remembered the myth of Icarus: flying high, flying toward the sun. But I have a suspicious feeling that the sun has melted the wax and we have to fall to the ground. If we look at today, we will find out very illustratively that we cannot do the most basic thing at the level of government administration, that we have communication working, that we do not lose him, that we do not need to take breaks to restore communication, etc. So what is the government going to do now, what are the investments in our IT systems? I'm going to say that the previous government has separated, I don't remember exactly, 2.5 million or 3 million to build Hiiumaa until the end of the last mile. According to my information, the new government has wiped out that $3 million. But we are seeing in practice that this is necessary. How do you intend to finance the last mile and effective communication in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U616	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for your work in the government. No, we haven't pulled it down. On the contrary, we have asked for significant sums of European money to develop the digital state, precisely to build the last mile. I agree with you that a digital state or teleworking or distance learning cannot function if there is no Internet connection. That is why I think it is also very important, in regional policy, that we build this last mile everywhere in Estonia, then we have the digital capability guaranteed. This is not really the subject of the present R &amp; D report, but we will indeed invest quite significant amounts in the development of networks in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U617	Tarmo Kruusimäe, is this a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U618	Thank you! I just have a question about our IT solutions. We see that the prime minister answers or someone asks, but all three screens are full and you don't see when your question is queued. Wouldn't it be possible for the yellow tablet to be on one screen and the two to have performers? Otherwise, the informative event tends to become an entertaining event and it is much better and safer to work in the office, not here in the middle of the Riigikogu Hall. Is that technically possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U619	Thank you. I don't know if that's technically possible right now. We will certainly not be able to rephrase it during today's sitting, but this request is now going to be written in a verbatim and will also be passed on to technical staff. We're trying to reconfigure it, it's a very sensible proposal. If technical possibilities allow it, we will do it quickly, but if we do not, we will develop these technical developments in the near future so that it is possible. But let's get on with the questions. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U620	Thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Science is good and necessary, its development is necessary. However, I must point out that this 1% funding is far from sufficient. Rather, it could be rigidly linked, as in the case of the military: if the army has 2%, science could also be funded with 2%. At the same time, however, science is not only about funding, but also about the necessary preparations, including the corresponding education. It's indisputable. In education, however, Estonia's biggest problem is now, or it is the biggest problem, but it is a very big problem in the scientific language... [The Community is breaking up. This, in turn, means, among other things, the deterioration of our national science, the quiet but certain loss of our national scientific community. Does the Prime Minister see that the new government supports the possible continued development of the scientific language or its promotion and is holding back the proliferation of foreign-language research programmes in our higher education institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U621	Thank you, good Paul! In the meantime, you had a connection, but I got the question. Firstly, I very much agree with you that this 1% really is not enough. But I guess every country has its own options, and we do what we can. Indeed, look at those countries that are very high on the global innovation index. They are united by the fact that they all invest quite a significant part of [GDP] in research and development, be it Finland, Sweden, Singapore, Israel. All of them over 3%, some of them even 7% are investing in R &amp; D, as far as I know. So I absolutely agree with you. As far as Estonian national sciences are concerned, I agree with you in this respect that, for example, the reform of doctoral studies is designed precisely to make Estonian-language higher education work. We have a number of points in national sciences that we do. For example, there is a centre of excellence in Estonian research, which is an excellent research centre of international quality across fields and institutions from the point of view of national sciences. We also support national professionalism through a higher education activity grant aimed at the University of Tartu. In total, 11 professorships are supported in the fields of Estonian language, culture and history. It is very important in today's world that technology speak to you in Estonian. This is why there is also a separate programme "Estonian Language Technology 2018.2027" which aims to create language technology applications. If phone voice recognition is not in Estonian, it is actually a problem. In addition, we have the research programme "Estonian Language and Culture in the Digital Era," which aims to support the preservation of Estonian language and culture and to develop and strengthen the capacity of Estonian language and culture. We have two doctoral schools: a doctoral school for cultural sciences and arts and a doctoral school for linguistics, philosophy and semiotics. These are the things I would bring out separately. National sciences, the development of Estonian language and culture are very important to all of us, because if we do not do it ourselves, no one in the world will do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U622	Tarmo Kruusimäe, every member of the Riigikogu can ask a question when processing this item. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U623	Thank you. Thank you for this very interesting overview. I want to draw attention to the problem that Estonian science is essentially project-based. The funding of our universities is disproportionately dependent on grants. But the distribution system and the amount of money are such that even the top of the disciplines are sometimes not enough grants, not to mention that this system creates a very high average level for everyone. The peaks need the environment. If we want good Estonian science, it is not enough that we send one talented person to Oxford or put him on the international team. This means that all disciplines must have a very high average level. This cannot happen, however, when a scientist, a university lecturer's main source of pay is a project, grant, and when it runs out, there is a lottery, and then people must be fired. It's turned our entire academy into basically a big precarat where a person doesn't know if he's got a job tomorrow, money, pension. Of course, young people do not want to work in this system. Is it planned that we will review our research funding distribution system and principles so that the researchers' main wage bill does not come from grants, our research is stable and the grants would still be to cover the additional needs of a specific research area?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U624	I have to say, when I went to Aalto University last summer, it was quite surprising for me to have a professorship there. The professor said that, in fact, his main job is to find funding that they are so-called self-sustaining. As soon as funding falls away and doesn't have any money for certain projects, it has to let people go or find some good thing to look into, which can be refinanced. I understand, absolutely, it doesn't fit all areas, it was an engineering field. But I just wanted to say that there are systems like this in other universities, too, this work has been organised in this way. In the last five years, basic funding for universities has risen from 13.88 million to 46.3 million. So it has been a conscious choice for the state, to give more resources to the agencies themselves to decide according to strategic priorities. It's up to the universities to decide. We know that universities are autonomous, it is up to them to decide how they use the basic funding. We hope, of course, that it will also be paid. The very idea of the same doctoral reform that I was talking about, which is 10 million, is that junior scientists should have contractual positions and salaries so that they should not do any other work besides research, but concentrate on science. But indeed, the government cannot intervene directly in the distribution of basic funding, as the autonomy of universities is sacred.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U625	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U626	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister! You have criticised companies for investing too little in research and development. I would say that this certainly does not hold true in the defence industry. The defence industry has developed quite well over the last ten years. We essentially produce a single fighter from equipment to field hospitals, unmanned earth vehicles and unmanned aerial vehicles. For example, in the area of unmanned land vehicles, Milrem Robotics, one of the world's leading developers and manufacturers could safely say. Could national defence research and development, defence industry be a part of this 1%?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U627	Thank you. I certainly didn't reproach you. What I wanted to say is that, when you look at numbers, once again, compared to other countries, our businesses invest little. But indeed, as you have pointed out, the Estonian defence industry is highly innovative, and all these examples in this area, all of which have been done, are very positive in the world. I, too, have been familiar with these results. Of course, you can only be proud of it. But the sectoral R &amp; D money provided for will also be available for projects under the Ministry of Defence. In any case, if companies operating under the Ministry of Defence or in the field of defence carry out projects that can be used in other areas, this is particularly positive. We know that these things have developed different solutions. I think that the defence industry is just a very good example of how investing in R &amp; D brings [money] back and how investing in R &amp; D can be pulled away and at the forefront of the world. This is also an example for other sectors where this situation is not so good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U628	Thank you, Prime Minister. It seems that the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Thank you for your presentation and your answer to the questions. We can go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Eduard Odines, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U629	Thank you, Mr President. Looking at the line of university faculty, professors waiting in line, it's starting to get a little creepy around here. But once again, thank you to the Prime Minister for this thorough and knowledgeful overview. However, I would like to mention some aspects that seem important to both me and the social democrats and perhaps to talk about them at length. First of all, it is, of course, very pleased that the funding of our research from the public sector has reached 1% of GDP. A lot is said not in terms of percentages, but in terms of absolute numbers. However, I believe that if the percentage is set, there is no point in talking about absolute numbers. But the money and that percentage, I'll come back at the end of the speech. Doctoral students, young scientists, are also concerned. The Prime Minister noted that the number of graduates was 221 last year, but in fact, we should look at the previous years. In 2019 there were 235, and in 2018 there were 244. We're seeing a constant decline. I don't want to believe that this is going on in the same proportion, because then in a few years, we won't have any science at all. But here is what to think about, and there is a need for decisive action. It seems the government is thinking in that direction, as we heard today. The position of the Social Democrats has been that doctoral student support should be at least the size of the average wage in Estonia, so that we would have these young people and would not be left unprotected. At this point, of course, I must look in the mirror myself, and I myself have been left in the middle of it. Similarly, these most quoted high-level articles. Yeah, there's a lot of them, but if you look at these numbers, we'll see that this number is decreasing too. The Prime Minister has also mentioned a network of scientific advisors from ministries, which has been set up with the support of the European Union. I'll join the praises. Although the position expressed yesterday in the Committee on Culture that the whole network could be transferred to the State Chancellery under uniform management is a little worrying. I'm not sure that's a good idea. It was good to hear that the applied research programme, which has been spoken about in this Chamber for years, has finally begun to work. We've been waiting a long time for this. The Prime Minister mentioned in his presentation, albeit in a very short, three-word sentence, that funding for humanities is increasing without specifying exactly what this means. I would just like to remind you that, under the leadership of the then Minister for Culture, the previous government already introduced a proposal into the government to finance humanities under a separate programme, from which history, archaeology, ethnology, folkloristics, literature, art and music can be supported in addition to language. I'm sorry, I don't know where this program has come from. This is probably a question for the Minister of Culture. At least in the first years there, European Union funds were the main source. Again, unfortunately, the government communicated public information... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U630	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U631	... As regards the composition of the new period of EU funds, there is no answer to the question of whether or not there is a separate line of humanities. At least 3 million million were planned per year to leave the state budget. But we'll soon find out if there is any and if it's going to go to the state budget. The country's budget strategy is on the government table this spring. In addition to supporting research in these areas that I have just mentioned, it is important to allocate resources to popularising the same research results and areas, as is the case in many other areas. Yes, I know that basic funding will give national science money, research grants will give money to education sciences and arts. But let us be honest, if we mean the ultimate goal for which our Estonian state exists at all, these resources are not sufficient and we must pay more attention to it. Now, back to the same percentage that my colleague, a member of our group, has already touched on in the round of questions. The Social Democrats continue to take a firm and firm view that the percentage of research funding must be included in the law, at least 1%. There have been other numbers. Of course, we can discuss this, but we believe that it must be enshrined in the law, so that it does not depend on negotiations on the country's budget strategy, so that it does not depend on winds that sometimes blow in a unfavourable direction to science. I would like to conclude by quoting: "The government, led by the Prime Minister, should show what it says with its mouth and allocate more money to science. " So Kaja Kallas, a member of the Riigikogu, spoke a year ago in this very hall. I hope that Echo will remember those words, and he will do exactly as he does with his mouth in this Chamber today. Thank you and good science, everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U632	Ade Black on behalf of the central fraction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U633	Thank you. I'll have eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U634	Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U635	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have a number of sympathetic achievements in the area of research and development. What the Prime Minister said could be signed happily and add something positive. I am very proud that we have exceeded a very important 1% limit in the funding of science, which has just been praised by our colleagues, Kalvi Tõik and Eduard Odines. Yes, we cannot fail to say that we also have a number of risk factors for R &amp; D, and failure to respond in time could bring a fire to the house in a few years' time. Alongside the success stories, we also see the parade of mediocrity in the world of science, the stump, sitting on the laurels of the day before yesterday, but this is not something we can talk about right now. This is obviously also the task of the Committee on Culture, which we are really going to follow closely and also announce in good time. Ladies and gentlemen, I will in some ways continue what the previous speaker has already said. 25 years ago, an international accreditation took place at my dear home university, which resulted in a somewhat unexpected outcome for all of us. It was declared that our students know a great deal and know rarely enough. I remembered this today when we are discussing the state of research and development in Estonia. I remember from my own hands that for 40 years we have known that we want research-intensive production and high-tech companies. We know that they bring us high-paid jobs. We know they're gonna stop the brain drain and, oh, wonder, maybe they'll bring the talent back home. We know that we have good researchers whose best research results are unfortunately not being applied in Estonia and, at the best of all, are entering practice, i.e. through multinational corporations. We know the ability of our high-tech companies to reduce our external dependence and strengthen our health protection capacity. We know that the level of our universities will rise when there are such companies, when knowledge is born here and gets strong roots. Political parties also know, one by one or all together, that they want the same success story described above. Look at the documents of the parties and parties, it's been going everywhere for a very long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to present to you the fruitage of the knowledge of good and evil. It turns out that the devil is sometimes in detail, and next to the big picture, you have to see a particular world. The fruit of this knowledge of good and evil is currently the Tartu pharmaceutical plant project. To create it, there is an outstanding intellectual base, world-class knowledge. This factory would allow the creation of high-paid jobs, as I have just said. This factory would stop the brain drain and maybe bring more talented people. This would certainly reduce Estonia's external dependence and reduce the role of our petitioner in even a number of medical procurements. All of this together would increase our defenses, etc. Moreover, for universities too, this is necessary, important, important. I dare say that my dear mother university, where she was now, somewhere in the 400th position in the world, would perhaps reach a more respectable position, such as 124, after the launch of such projects. But the danger is that stories remain stories. There are a number of buts, there is talk of opposition, it is said that some wise guys would give God, that they wouldn't come with this story in a year's time, saying that they didn't need a factory like this, because the coronation is over, the epidemic is defeated, the epidemics are no longer coming, the land is flat and what we need these factories for. Some have heard that there is nothing that can be done in the city of Tartu that the city is opposed, environmentalists are opposed, politicians are opposed. International corporations are lobbying anyway and saying they already have something better. Ladies and gentlemen, The Tartians don't mind. It was a pulp mill that was discussed and discussed with concern about its environmental impact. The good people of the Riigikogu also do not object. We have an interesting message (I can get it to the protocol department and I would like to add a speech to the text) signed by Aadu Must and Marika Tuus-Laul of the Centre Party, Professor Hele Everaus, Ants Laaneots, Professor Mikhail Lotman, a good colleague of Jaak's White EKRE, so this is a cross-party where we talk about how necessary this factory is. Good manager, I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U636	Yeah, you got three more minutes. You can continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U637	Thank you, thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, As head of the delegation of the Baltic Assembly and chairman of the Estonian-Latvian Friendship Group, I keep watching what our good friends Latvians and Lithuanians say. On Friday, Latvian President Egils Levits spoke very convincingly about the fact that there are world-class scientists in Latvia, that they need to be accompanied by an additional one, perhaps looking towards Estonia, talked about COVID-19 and that medicine is a research-intensive field. He agreed to bring scientific innovation in this area together with business. Maybe make the Tartu pharmaceutical plant right there with the southern neighbours? Nobody thinks that, does it? Anyway, Igor Gräzin, a former member of the Riigikogu, did think that we might be restoring the old historical Livonia, so maybe there is something better. That was a mean joke for me. I'm sorry! I want to say this: research and development is not just a matter for the Prime Minister; it is not just a matter for the government; it is also a matter for Parliament; it is, to a very large extent, a matter for each of us. It's our responsibility. I admit that, to a large extent, this is the responsibility of the Committee on Culture. We are working to ensure that we are moving forward with R &amp; D to life and success, not just to death. In a year's time, in this very hall, we will examine together the fruit of our knowledge of good and evil. Will it be possible, in this case, from the Tartu pharmaceutical plant, in which all the positive points described above are strongly and almost perfectly represented, whether it will be alive or whether we are talking about the fact that nothing could have been done? I am an optimist because we have moved in the right direction in the field of research and development. We have done a number of things together, where both the coalition and the opposition have been involved, because we have worked in this field for the benefit of Estonia. There are a number of other points that I would like to talk about more about, but obviously it is the Committee on Culture that needs to talk about the same things. I applaud the fact that for the second year in a row, the importance of social sciences and humanities was also discussed. Europe understood this when Brexit came to the fore and it was discovered that something was missing in education and preparation. I also hope that we will overcome another Soviet era. That's what I was talking about before. During the Soviet era, there were a lot of beautiful ideas and they talked about how it was in the Soviet country. But when positive examples were sought, it turned out that according to the theory they were in the country as they were, but they did not exist in any particular place in the country. We see specific things, specific applications along with the big plan. I call on everyone to support such a flagship for research and development, a top project that it is currently for, especially under the conditions of the COVID and under the look of the good Latvians, the envyes of the Latvian neighbours. Jealousy, I apologize again! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U638	Thank you. Now I would like to ask Margit Sutrop on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U639	Good President-in-Office, I would like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U640	Five plus three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U641	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Dear members of the Riigikogu, listeners here and there on the screen! The Estonian people have reason to be proud of their science and researchers. We have a very competitive science internationally, we have many successful research groups, good scientists quoted, our researchers are involved in policy-making and consulting, cooperation with our business is progressing, and with the support of the European Union's Structural Funds, such educational buildings and laboratories have been established in Estonia, which give eyes not only to our neighbours but also to many very well-developed countries. We have centres of excellence, doctoral schools, schools of study and research brought in a wealth of good researchers with the help of the Structural Funds, new study programmes have been created. However, there are many things that cause concern. The Prime Minister's presentation showed that the government understands the importance of science. I'm sure it's important. But many problems have been ravaged over the years and it is clear that they will not be solved in either one or two years. I will bring out three problems in my report. Estonia's research budget is highly dependent on the structural resources of the European Union and, unfortunately, Estonia does not always support its own development needs and balanced scientific development. We do not have an exit plan from the Structural Funds. In the new period, Estonian universities and research institutions will receive 100 million euros less from the Structural Funds for research investments than in the previous period. But the biggest problem is that Structural Fund money has a label. The label is called innovation and smart specialisation. This area is very important. But this means that in the new Structural Funds period, all of our basic research will be left unsupported by the European Union. The Prime Minister mentioned that we have strong basic research. But they're only strong as long as they're strongly supported. Indeed, there are 56 million additional R &amp; D planned in the state budget of 2021, but two thirds of this will be channelled through the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and other ministries to applied research and to improve the development and innovation capacity of companies. This is clearly necessary. But is there enough for basic research? The good news is that the Minister of Education and Research and the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology are already planning to discuss in the near future how research institutions and higher education institutions can also apply for funds to enhance the development and innovation capacity of enterprises. The Prime Minister also confirmed the need for university support to carry out the digital and green turns. But the problem with basic science remains. It is said in Brussels that the Member States of the European Union themselves must find money to support basic sciences. However, we know that the country currently has very little money due to the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. And it is easy to ask whether we need these basic sciences at all, whether we focus only on applied sciences and support only the transformation of knowledge into a commodity. I don't mind innovation. Innovation is very important, it is the use of new ideas and knowledge to implement innovative solutions, but somewhere these ideas and knowledge must come from which they will be implemented. Each application is based on fundamental knowledge of the nature and mechanisms of the phenomenon being investigated. For example, all information and communication technology solutions require basic research, whether in data science or artificial intelligence. Vaccines are also a good example. Vaccines were created on the basis of decades of fundamental scientists' work, which was now operational. In order to reach the COVID-19 vaccines, scientists had to understand how genes work, how information flows from DNA to RNA and from DNA to protein, how RNA viruses and DNA viruses' life cycles work, how they use cells to reproduce themselves, how human immune responses are generated to external invaders, and how the virus enters cells using the protein ACE2 on the surface of the cell. Toivo Maimets, Professor of Cell Biology at the University of Tartu, told me yesterday that if someone had said another year and a half ago that they were studying the surface protein ACE2 and how the virus protein SB1 recognized it, it would certainly have been asked why such esoteric science was used with taxpayers' money and whether Estonian science had no major problems. The moral of this story is that readiness is everything. We never know where the next serious problem facing the world will come from, but a number of scientists who deal with such a first-hand, weird and impractical issue must necessarily exist. Therefore, it is important to water the entire fine art, both basic and applied sciences. Problem two. Indeed, we have had a gap between words and actions for a long time. Although much is said about the importance of science, the making of science in Estonia has not actually been appreciated enough. The salaries of researchers and faculty are not competitive; in applying for competitive research grants from ETAg, obtaining a grant has changed substantially in the lottery. The percentage of success last year was 22%, but in many areas [smaller], for example, in humanitariania 15% and in the technical and technological fields that are important to us 17%. Many successful research groups and entire research trends remain free of funding in the rounds of ETAg research grants year-on-year, even if they receive the highest grades from international reviewers. Last spring, ETAg organised an idea collection to solve the problems associated with the COVID virus, and ideas were collected for certain studies. Scientists came up with 152 research projects. Finally, 13 were financed because the budget was 2.1 million. One can only imagine how much better Estonian society would be today if the research money had been more. This year there are 6.2 million new grants, which is 10 million less than last year. In the previous year, 272 applications for basic research and 141 applications for industrial research were submitted. Three-quarters of them were broke. They're applying again, frustrated. The same low success rate makes Estonian scientists and students feel that doing science is not prospective. As the doctorate does not give the salary supplement outside the academy and even in high state offices the doctorate is not valued, the interest of Estonian young people in going to doctoral studies is reduced. And the third problem. Research and development is closely linked to higher education, and its funding is in a deep crisis. We therefore need to talk not only about funding science but also about funding higher education. That is why tomorrow, in the Committee on Culture, we will launch a key national issue for the sustainability of higher education and research and development. I am hopeful that we can achieve a cross-party agreement on the quality and financing of higher education. Science provides a foundation for education, being crucial to the preparation of specialists with higher education in all areas of life. Science is also a part of culture, it creates the quality of life of people and helps us understand ourselves and the world around us. To sum it up. Research, development and higher education will help us not only to become financially prosperous but also to grow from spirit and to remain a nation and an independent state. The wise people invest in science and education with the hope of seeing better times. I wish us all that wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U642	Thank you. Jaak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of White Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U643	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I'm audible. I'm gonna need three more minutes to test it, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U644	Five plus three minutes. And you're visible too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U645	I'll start a little further. The characteristic of the nation state is a cohesive society, a society in which society has a common identity. Only such a common identity will allow good democracy to function, otherwise all members of society would only promote their own interests. The national state is also characterised by the integration of different areas of society. For example, research should focus on areas where there is breakthrough capacity and which promote the economy, social life and culture of the country. On the contrary, it is not the case in disintegrated societies or in those countries that are normally lagging behind, colonies or former colonies. The hallmark of disintegration is the divergence in the development of different areas. The success of one does not lead to the success of other sectors and society as a whole. Such a society is made up of interest groups competing for the national purse. Let's just say that, perfectly implemented, it's a model of a corporate, but not a democratic state. Professor Emeritus Andres Taklaja of Tallinn University of Technology has compared the negotiations of scientists and politicians, on which the success of Estonian science has been clearly reduced only to the extent of funding, for example, if Estonian construction companies were to receive 1% of GDP from the Estonian state, the only demand from the state that they build it for whatever they want, but that their activities would be judged by external experts. This is not the case, of course, and Professor Taklaja does not think that Estonian research has so little to do with Estonian society. On the other hand, it is very clear that there is a problem, a big problem. Of course, as a person of academic background, I too would like to see more funding for science, and especially higher salaries for researchers and teachers. Our faculty and scientists are really worth it. But the Estonian Conservative People's Party has also always declared that the Estonian system of funding and evaluation of science must be made Estonian-centred, so that Estonian science is linked to our society, to the society that pays for research. Certainly Estonian scientists are also predominantly Estonian patriots, and their additional motive is work for Estonian society. That the Estonian research and innovation system needs clearer thematic priorities and these priorities should be based on the challenges facing Estonian society has also been emphasised in their report by external experts, led by Professor Marja Makarowi and Professor Erik Arnold of the University of Manchester. Experts believe that there could be a Vice-Rector at any university whose main task is to transfer knowledge to society. The authors of the report note that the Estonian system is successful in publishing scientific articles, but the areas on which research focuses are not always important for companies and the state. It is extremely welcome that external experts came to such conclusions, the execution of which leads to the consolidation of the Estonian nation state. On the other hand, it is extremely strange that it was even seen by external experts who are not Estonian identity. This means, however, that we ourselves have clearly carried out a research policy in which we have dealt with ourselves as a resident working for developed countries. But it is not quite clear from the Prime Minister's presentation today whether today's government is trying to continue the same cautiously initiated course of the previous government, as suggested by external experts and what is in the EKRE programme. If so, I dare to doubt carefully whether a government with a negative attitude to the nation state will be able to carry it out. The other steps of the government do not prove that either. The prerequisite for the success of science is the lack of political correctness and, of course, freedom of speech and thought, precisely those that are at risk during the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U646	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party. Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U647	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank the Prime Minister for having found time to devote his speech to science at such a stressful time. Unfortunately, the content of the speech did not make me very happy. Yes, Estonia has very good science, and in some ways we have jumped over our heads. However, if we look at these tendencies and trends, which Mr Odines has already mentioned in part, there are also more, we are going downhill now. To a large extent, this has to do with the fact that there are few young scientists, that science is not as attractive for young people as it was for previous and previous generations, that there are much better challenges, material challenges in the private sector and abroad, etc. The Prime Minister was proud to mention that 1% of GDP has been achieved in science, and this is quite remarkable money. But that was the result of the previous government. Right now, he promised to keep that percentage. But we must remember that the percentage above all reflects the priorities of society and government. And 1% of GDP is not at all the dream limit. Professor Maimets, who has already been mentioned today and whom I spoke to a few days ago, said that the contribution of the Estonian public and private sector to science is three times lower than the average of the European Union, that is not what we would like. We realised that Estonia should contribute some 5% of GDP to science, with about half of the private sector and the public sector being involved. So there's a lot of work here. What I'm saying is, if there's a rumor that we're too poor to raise that percentage, that percentage is not a lot of money. And if the rich or the poor raise any percentage, it shows how they view this area, not how much money actually goes there. Besides, there's one important thing to know. These countries, which contribute more to science, are richer countries. I would like to quote Academician Tarmo Soire, who in turn quoted Peter Drucker. Finland said that these are golden words: knowledge is a source of wealth. In fact, knowledge is not the knowledge the old man explains somewhere on the end of a stump, it's science-based knowledge. Science is the foundation of wealth, and not the other way around, that if we're rich enough, then we can scramble something into science. I'll come back to the young scientists. That's a big problem. And if this year ETAg spends three times less on these projects than it did last year, 10 million less, then this will be a hit, above all, for young scientists. Unfortunately, I did not get a good answer from the Prime Minister to this question, but I understand the logic that we take the sum of the sum of the various years, then sum up and divide and on average is that. But if we hit a hole like that in this year, it's like a demographic hole, you can't come out the next year. It's a years-long, maybe decade-long process. The Prime Minister said two controversial things to me. One that science must support the economy and answer current questions. At the same time, quoting I don't remember who, he said science has to solve tomorrow's problems. Tomorrow's problems are not the problems that politicians or the Riigikogu are giving them. Science makes sense. Here I want to quote once again the Prime Minister and positively. When he answered my question on 25 January, he said that let scientists deal with science, politicians deal with politics. So, politicians, don't get involved in science. We are saying that in society, the economy certainly needs these and these things, and science comes to the aid. But science evolves from the top down. If there is no fundamental research, then applied research will also suffer. We cannot ask each time what benefits agriculture will benefit from some sort of cosmology. Finally, I would like to encourage the Prime Minister. He's the captain of this state ship. I'm asking him to put his hands on the helm and lead it. If he sees that the cards are from the previous government, the old ones, or that this course is wrong, then right now he's the only one who's responsible for making sure the ship doesn't go to the reef. Science is a very important area where it is very easy to ruin and it is very difficult to correct afterwards. The previous government found 56 million for science, most of these millions went to bureaucracy and different ministries. If this money doesn't get enough, 10 to 12 million to cover the hole that arises in the distribution of grants, then a new source must be found. And I very much encourage the Prime Minister to look for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U648	Thank you. The negotiations are over. Would the Prime Minister like a final word? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U649	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for this very good debate. Indeed, it seems to me that we all agree that science is important, and a lot of important ideas came along here. I agree with a lot of what has been said here. First of all, knowledge is the source of wealth. Absolutely! And also, don't tell me what your priorities are, but show me where you put the money, maybe that's actually your priority. So in this respect, investment in R &amp; D is certainly important. Much was said about this 1% of gross domestic product. I think we all agree on that. The reason why I do not want to write it into law is that when GDP falls, it is as if the funding for science should fall. That's not what we want. Of course, I also congratulate the previous government, which agreed on 1% funding for this science. Many of you touched on the problem of young scientists. I absolutely agree. This is why the reform of young scientists or doctoral studies is necessary to ensure that the doctoral student has a clearer position in the research career, or, if so, that junior researchers also have a contractual position. It is to enable them to choose science for their activities and not to do other work alongside a research career in order to feed their families. We don't really have different opinions here, we just have to get it going. We've already agreed that 10 million will go there. In response to Eduard Odines, this 3 million is within the 47 million which is earmarked for sectoral funding. It was suggested that scientific advisors should not come under the State Chancellery. This is what the scientific advisors themselves have actually wanted, to be brought under the State Chancellery, in order to direct the subject across [the field]. Now for solid basic research. Both Professor Sutrop and Professor Lotman touched on this. Again, I very much agree that if we do not have strong basic research, then surely nothing can be built there either. I did not say that science must, in any case, support the economy. I was simply pointing out that if we can get more researchers to cooperate or the same researchers to work in the economy, in companies, then we can actually raise the level of R &amp; D in these companies. It is precisely because they have studied something that maybe has nothing to do with the economy at first, but they see these ideas out of the frame and it brings new ideas and new solutions. There is actually no contradiction here. Nor will the state intervene in science. As I said, autonomy is also very important. But that's why basic science is important. A few more things. Jaak Valge spoke about the different development of different areas, the importance of cooperation. Absolutely agrees that cooperation in the fields will actually produce results, but at the same time we cannot get over or around the fact that we are a small country. This means that we still have to specialise in something, we simply cannot develop cutting-edge science in all areas. They are therefore priority areas. Of course, scientists must be related to Estonian society, but at the same time we do not want scientists to be the doers only in Estonia, but we also want us to have world-class competition and world-class scientists. In other words, we want our scientists to do very well at the cutting edge. I don't know exactly what's in the EKRE program you were referring to. But in any case, national sciences are important, as I have repeatedly emphasised. If we do not deal with national sciences ourselves, we do not develop Estonian language and culture, then no one else in the world will do it except us. Thank you again for this debate! I would like us to continue to work well together on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U650	Thank you. Once again, thank you to the Prime Minister. Many thanks to all members of the Riigikogu who took an active part in the debate today! This item is over and we will move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U651	Today's fifth item is the second reading of the draft Law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like Aivar Koka, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as rapporteur. Aivar, we can't hear you. We'll see, but we can't hear you. I can't hear you! The hall requires you to speak louder. We can't hear, we can't hear. I still can't hear it right now. I will take the chairman's break five minutes and try to clarify the technical options. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U652	Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to continue. Break taken by the manager is over. Is Aivar Chef connected through the screen? I can see it's not right now. We have a connection problem at all now. I ask: Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, are you able to quickly replace Aivar Kokka and report this point or not? If not, we simply have to go ahead with the agenda and this item is currently falling out of the procedure. Okay, I think Aivar Coke's connected. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U653	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U654	Yeah, I can hear you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U655	Okay, one second.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U656	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now continue with the fifth item, the second reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Vice-Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U657	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act for the second reading was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 16 and 22 February. No proposals were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Commission made two technical amendments by consensus. The first amendment corrects the reference error in the VAT Act. The second amendment aligns the wording used in the AML/CFT Act with the draft provision. As a result of the amendment, the title of the draft was added. The Committee on Finance made three decisions by consensus: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 March, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 11 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U658	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? Looks like there's no questions. How? Yes, Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U659	Thank you. Aivar, since I am the next waitress and in order to spend as little time as possible with colleagues, I have a simple question: can I be heard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U660	I can hear you very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U661	That was the question to Aivar. I won't ask again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U662	Aivar, can you answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U663	I can hear you very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U664	Got it. It seems that the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment is the position put forward by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment is also the position put forward by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 293. The second reading is closed and today's fifth item is under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U665	Let's go! Today's sixth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 299. The rapporteur is Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Economic Commission. Please! Kalvi, we've managed the rehearsal, but I can't hear you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U666	[[He does, but I can't hear him.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U667	Kalvi, we've managed the rehearsal, but I can't hear you now. I can't hear you! Extend your hands... The picture's very good. I apologise to my colleagues, the chairman's break for five minutes, and we will try to solve the problem again. Still, the connection is. Rock, try it again! Yeah, I can hear you now. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U668	But it's interesting that I haven't done anything here in the meantime. Now when the report starts, when the time comes for the call, it's like the waitress loses the connection. I didn't do anything in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U669	I can't comment. Technology is a wonderful thing, but we can continue. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U670	So I'm going to introduce you to the bill. We are talking about a draft law amending the Traffic Act and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 14 December last year. The first reading took place in the Riigikogu on 20 January. No proposals were received from colleagues or other committees within the deadline for amendments. However, the Commission worked very hard with the Ministry, and I will later talk about the amendments that are included in the table. The Commission discussed this draft at two meetings, 22 February and 8 March. Let us also mention the procedural decisions so that they do not go unnoticed afterwards. It was proposed to take it fully together today, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, once the second reading is completed, to make it a third reading on 17 March. Now for the amendments. The draft law was tabled and 14 amendments were finalised by the Commission. Let me introduce them briefly. The amendments can be divided into four categories or areas. Amendments 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 14 concern the original point of the draft, for which this draft came, i.e. the additional control of special equipment, or gas equipment. These amendments are of a fine-tuning and text-correcting nature, nothing will change very significantly compared to the original text. However, as is customary in the case of traffic law, amendments were tabled, which are far from the original meaning of this draft and somewhat from the other area of traffic law. In particular, the Ministry of the Interior made a series of proposals to the Commission which they considered urgent and which certainly need to be adopted in the course of the procedure for this draft. These amendments are Nos 3, 11, 12 and 13 and regulate all kinds of requirements for both technology and drivers, as well as compliance with traffic rules in a rescue car, which travels to the challenge. All of this can be read from the list of amendments. Amendment 2 deals slightly with a separate subject, specifying the definition of a truck. Why is that necessary? It's the road charge. In fact, the court challenged that a road user charge was levied on the crane and a special truck. Now there is a court settlement, and indeed cranes and special purpose cars have to pay the road user fee. However, the Chancellor of Justice also drew the Commission's attention to the fact that, for the sake of clarity of the law, it would make sense to clarify this issue in the law, and Amendment 2 makes it clearer in the law. Amendment 1 is the most extensive of the amendments and, as a result of this proposal, there is also a proposal to amend the title of the law and the draft. At first, the draft law amending the Traffic Act came into operation; now it has become a draft law amending the Traffic Act and related to the amendment of other laws. On the basis of the draft, the Road Transport Act, the Rail Law, the Public Transport Act and the Maritime Safety Act will be amended so that there is a very large package of laws that the Economic Commission for Amendment 1 to amend. And the content of this proposal is that, as a result of the current viral situation, the European Commission has adopted a regulation allowing Member States to postpone the deadlines for all kinds of permits and licences. The content of this long amendment 1 is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is given such a mandate. If they think that we do not need to postpone these extensions of licences in Estonia, they may also not postpone them. But last spring, when we had the first corona wave, we actually adopted exactly the same amendment. Anyone who wishes to ask for more information can read about this amendment either from the bill to be taken from behind the hall or electronically on their desks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U671	Thanks for the presentation. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. 14 amendments to the draft have been tabled. We'll go through them together. The first amendment is the position put forward by the Economic Commission, the lead committee: take full account. Second amendment, as well as from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position: take full account. Third amendment, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position: take full account. Fourth amendment, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position to be taken fully into account. Fifth amendment, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position: take full account. Sixth proposal, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position to be taken fully into account. Seventh amendment, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position: take full account. Eighth proposal, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position to be taken fully into account. The ninth proposal, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, is a position to take full account of. Tenth amendment, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position: take full account. Proposal 11, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position to be taken fully into account. The 12th proposal, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, is a position to take full account of. Amendment 13, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, position to be taken fully into account. Amendment 14, as well as the position put forward by the Committee on Economic Affairs: take full account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 299. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U672	Today's seventh item is the second reading of the Bill 115 of Amendment to § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please waitress the Social Affairs Committee member, Hele Everaus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U673	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a bill 115. This is a draft law amending § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act, which has gone a long way. A little bit of history. On 3 December 2019 the Social Democratic Party Group initiated a draft law supplementing § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act The Board of the Riigikogu appointed the Committee on Social Affairs as the commission of the draft. The draft aims to change the procedure for providing psychiatric assistance to a person with reduced capacity. The draft was and is motivated by the Chancellor of Justice's finding that the current regime does not allow the provision of psychiatric assistance to a sufficiently mature young person under 18 without the consent of his legal representative or without the permission of the court. The first reading of Bill 115 was completed on 21 January 2020. The deadline for submitting amendments was 4 February 2020 and two amendments were received from a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Küt. The lead committee proposed one amendment to the draft. The Social Affairs Committee also asked for opinions from various interest groups and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Estonian Association of Youth Associations sent supporting opinions on the draft. The Ministry of Social Affairs also sent its opinion. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 9 January and supported the purpose of the draft, according to which sufficiently mature persons with reduced capacity for consideration have the right to seek mental health care without the consent of a legal representative or guardian. The Government of the Republic considered it necessary to supplement the draft in such a way that the right to psychiatric assistance granted to persons with reduced capacity for minors is extended to adults with reduced capacity on the basis of their own free and informed consent. The Ministry of Social Affairs also submitted a specific draft proposal to the full extent. The Ministry of Social Affairs sent a further proposal to amend the draft on 10 February, which was completed in 2021. The Ministry of Social Affairs supports the addition of § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act in such a way that the specific regulation provided for in § 766 (4) of the Law of Obligations Act already applies as regards patients' rights of persons with reduced capacity, which always takes into account the ability and ability of a person with reduced capacity to make treatment decisions concerning himself. However, the health care provider shall, where appropriate, involve a legal representative or other close person, taking into account the interests and needs of the incapacitated person, who can support the disabled person. The Social Affairs Committee supported the proposals sent by the Ministry of Social Affairs, including the last proposal sent on 10 February this year, and consequently decided to formulate the draft as the one and only but meaningful amendment proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Now, what has happened in the meantime? It is that the Commission has discussed this draft as you understand, the history is long, full 13 sessions. A large number of specialists from all kinds of disciplines have participated in the discussions at Commission meetings. I still read them out, they are all worth it because they have participated in very serious proposals: Head of the Children and Youth Rights Department of the Chancellor of Justice, Andres Aru, Chairman of the Management Board for Family and Tradition Protection, Varro Vooglaid, Head of the Children's Mental Health Centre, Anne Kleinberg, Head of the Medical Family Counselling Centre, Head of the OÜ Medical Family Counselling Department, Psycho-sexologist Imre Rammul, Head of the Child Protection Board of the Estonian Children's Elders Association, Head of the Child Protection Department of the Police and Border Guard Board Liia Kilp, Head of the Estonian Youth Mental Health Movement Birgit Malken, Managing Director of the Estonian Young People's Association Heili Griffith, Director of the Children's Rights Programme at Tallinn Pääsküla School Liika Saar, Head of the Child Protection Department of the Police and Border Guard Board of the South Prefecture of the Police Department, Head of the Estonian Youth Health Movement Birgit Malken, Head of the Health Department of the Estonian School of the Estonian School of Mashor. On 15 February, it was decided, as I have already said, to support the proposals and to appoint Mr Everau, before you, as rapporteur for the draft by the Committee on Social Affairs. The amendments were subject to an in-depth discussion on 21 February. There were three of them. The first, as formulated and amended by the Social Affairs Committee, is paragraph 1. It lays down the basic principle of psychiatric assistance: psychiatric assistance is provided on a voluntary basis. Paragraph 2 regulates the right of a disabled person to seek psychiatric assistance in the same way as other health services. There have been a number of debates on this, but in fact it is a very important step forward in order to really get all the help we need. Paragraph 3 provides that the health care provider shall involve a legal representative of a person with reduced capacity or any other adult capacity entrusted by a person with reduced capacity, where this is in the interests of a person with reduced capacity. Paragraph 4 states that psychiatric assistance may be provided without the consent of the person himself if the criteria for psychiatric assistance that are beyond the control of the person are met, in accordance with § 11 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act and § 17 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act, and, in the case of compulsory psychiatric treatment prescribed by the court, in accordance with § 17 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act. This first amendment was subject to consensus: with the exception of one abstention, all members of the Commission voted in favour of it. Amendments 2 and 3 tabled by Mrs Helmen Küti, a member of the Riigikogu, were decided to support the substance. Once again, one member of the Commission was impartial; the others were in favour. And, in essence, all these proposals have been taken into account in this only final amendment. The Committee on Social Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 10 March, that the draft should be closed, and if it does so, that the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a third reading by 17 March 2021. All procedural decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U674	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U675	Thank you, good vice president and waitress. There were a lot of such pulpit terms. My question is motivated by the fact that I think about people who watch us online. There is a crisis situation where we know that more suicidal thoughts have arisen among minors. Do they have the possibility to contact a psychiatrist independently after the adoption of this law, and is it also valid at the age of 16? Did the Commission discuss where a child from a country is a minor? And was it considered that there could be such a separate age group as "young people" that would begin at the age of 15?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U676	Thank you, very good question! This has exactly been the purpose of this long process in order to give people under 18 of any age the opportunity to approach any specialist with any kind of health concern. So far, you can't go to a psychiatrist for mental health problems without involving your parent. If this law enters into force, it will be an opportunity. It's just really needed. Situations can be very different. We had very serious discussions about how we're gonna let a minor do something like this without his or her parents knowing. There was also criticism that, on the one hand, parents have to take responsibility for their so-called grown-ups and how they do not know their concerns. But life is just like this, situations are different. I think it's okay if a person can ask for help if they have a problem. It is often the case that young people do not approach anyone. And if they want to turn, but they can't do it in time, it might be too late soon, so there won't be any more. So I think this law is very important. Remember, according to the Penal Code, 14 years old is responsible for his actions. But until the age of 18, a young person cannot go to a psychiatrist without her mother and father's hand. So I'm very pleased when we finally give it a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U677	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U678	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I just have this not so much substantive question about this draft, but a little bit wider. According to this law, children can now turn to a psychiatrist on their own. As has been said, children now reportedly have major mental problems with COVID, there are suicide attempts. But how do we deal with the fact that so far very many children have not been able to access this service because we simply do not have enough psychiatrists? I am a member of the Tallinn City Council and have been to the children's psychiatric centre that works for the children's hospital. It turned out very clearly that as Tallinn is the richest municipality, it is able to guarantee this service to the children of its region, but basically they serve the whole of Estonia. But that's where the kids get mostly when they've already committed suicide. How are we supposed to proceed now? If this law is passed, how can we ensure that the children who have the right really have access to this service? What can be done to make the psychiatrists they can go to more?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U679	Thank you for a very important question. By the way, this is what I asked the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs when we discussed the aspects of this law and possible future developments. It is certainly important that things really do go as we want them to. But it requires the preparation of more psychiatrists and clinical psychologists. And that's a direct government mission. That's the only way I'm gonna see it. Indeed, I have seen the consequences, I have met families and their representatives. The reality is that this problem is very serious. So I agree with you that the government must act very seriously here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U680	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U681	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Am I to understand that seven-year-olds can also go to a doctor on their own? Or, according to the Penal Code, 14 years of age is the limit that children can ask for this help independently? And does it extend to those young people who have already actually been hit, whose psyche is disturbed, and who have already been diagnosed with partial indecisiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U682	There is no age limit, there are no limits at all. If the child is so mature that he realizes that he has a problem where there is no other help, then he needs to know where to go with this concern. And he must be free to ask for help.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U683	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U684	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! Here's the question. This bill provides that minors, or children, may ask for help if they are under 18. However, we know that even very many adults do not know the difference between a psychologist and a psychiatrist. I do have a question of how a seven-year-old or a ten-year-old on his own, as you pointed out earlier, would want to go to a psychiatrist in the first place. He doesn't think of a psychologist, the idea that he wants to go to a psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U685	Thank you. That's the right question. But if he doesn't know, he doesn't want to go, that's clear. This desire demonstrates the maturity of consciousness. People who have problems act according to how much their awareness is. This is the case with people of all ages, not just children, under 18 years of age. Some are less mature, some are more mature, but every person can decide freely. And it's clear that most of them still have a home to turn to to to see what's going on at home. However, there are unfortunately situations where this is not the case. I just heard the information from the Chancellor of Justice's office. They visited all the specialists involved in the admission of children's psychiatrists, and it turned out that there would be a situation in the next few or three months where a person under 18 needs consultation, but according to the current law, the psychiatrist should not advise him. And what does this young man have to do? Where does he have to go? I don't think it's a mass problem, but if it doesn't grow, it needs to change the law. And the truth is, people don't want to go to a doctor at all, not to mention mental health problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U686	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U687	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You just said that a psychiatrist is a doctor. And when a person needs a psychiatrist's help, things are really, really bad. At the same time, psychologists say that we have a bad situation with young people. Young people cannot cope with their lives on a massive scale; they are stressed, followed by all kinds of other problems and abuses. Please tell me, is this psychiatric problem the biggest? Perhaps it would be cheaper and easier for us to get young people to talk to psychologists first in society? If the problem is still coming up, it's easier to get help. If there's smokes and stuff like that in the rough, it might be too late.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U688	Thank you. Very correct aspects that you note. And that's what one doesn't rule out the other. And sometimes you need a lot of help at the same time. It is not the case that the doctor is the last person to be approached when the most serious trouble is already in the process. However, there are certain aspects that a psychiatrist can appreciate, but a psychologist does not. After all, there are also various psychiatric illnesses of congenital orientation that no one at home can recognize and help this person. I certainly agree with you very much that we live in a different situation than I remember from my youth. That's how you think about what these stresses are all about. It is certainly a matter of prevention; it is a question of a major health policy • not just a question of health policy, but of health policy. In fact, as people, even here, we communicate with each other, how parents communicate at home, how their coworkers communicate with them, how all of this is transferred to homes, all of this is transferred to young people. It'll be transferred to the middle of school. You're absolutely right, all these things should be. Not that we are taking one measure, and this one measure will certainly solve the problem. If this law, now in its modified form, goes into operation, it still does not solve all the problems. We need to approach complexly, but we will try to eliminate this one problem that has been unresolved for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U689	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U690	Thank you again, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am very pleased that we can discuss these issues here with you as a practitioner. My question comes from life itself again. Let me give you an example. Now, if under the new law, a seven-year-old child goes to a psychiatrist on his own, then perhaps the psychiatrist will prescribe medication for him. And we know that these drugs are actually very powerful, without exception. That's why psychologists don't write them out. They don't have that right. So what do you think the next step should be? I just know from life myself that if a child goes to a phychiatrist with the parent's consent and with the parent's consent, then the parent is the one who goes to the pharmacy, shows his child's ID card and also his own ID card, and as an adult, he can then buy out these powerful medications and also check at home how they are taken. Life itself is also known to be tried by experimental error. They are determined by the psychiatrists, and if any are inappropriate, they should be reported and a new treatment given. But what about the drugs that didn't fit? Where are they going, who are they? There are real situations in life, instead of in shock...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U691	There is a minute to formulate a question. Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U692	I don't think it's right to leave this whole thing on the child's shoulders. This may lead to situations that we may not be able to foresee and which may be very dangerous. Why don't you give it your opinion as much as you can?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U693	Thank you very much. I understand your concern. I guess everyone's concern is that the right things can be done with the right people and in the right place, then the best result. Why does this child have to be seven years old? I trust very much the education of doctors in our various specialties, which is mainly obtained at the University of Tartu and from highly qualified specialists. This is especially true of psychiatrists. This school has been a model abroad for centuries. I'm sure no psychiatrist is just gonna write some kind of medicine for a seven-year-old kid. First, he appreciates what the situation is. I don't think a seven-year-old's even going there, but, well, let him be. The psychiatrist appreciates the situation the child has come to him for. These are long conversations, and not only. And I'm sure the doctor will try to contact the family, except the seven-year-old, but rather a much older child or an unadulterated, let's just say, he doesn't deny it if he doesn't want his family to be contacted under any circumstances. It's the only obstacle. But in any case, my colleague will not do anything until he has tried to find out what the reasons are. And it's gonna take a lot of time. You have no idea how much psychiatrist work they do. It's not a meeting once, it's a meeting many times. And they certainly don't prescribe drugs for the baby. They are looking for other solutions that will enable us to move forward in this situation. I do have another specialty, but I've seen side by side that psychiatrists have very complicated patients whose mental health needs very much support. Indeed, suicide needs must be avoided because of, for example, a serious illness. And not only adults, but also children with cancer. I've seen how psychiatrists really operate. Too bad there's so few of them. They're really hard, they're very heavy. I trust doctors. Everyone does their job in the best way possible. And this job can only be done by a specialist, that's for sure. Even if parents at home think they know what to do, they certainly cannot solve the problem, they can help and support side by side. The psychiatrist is still a person who has learned his whole life and who constantly learns how to help people with such problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U694	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U695	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You yourself admitted several times that a seven-year-old could hardly turn to a psychiatrist himself. But yet this bill provides for all minor children, that is to say, everyone under 18 years of age. And it also contains such a sentence that the patient is self-considering treatment decisions. But if you are very convinced that a seven-year-old and ten-year-old do not go to a psychiatrist on their own initiative, why was there no age limit? Why didn't you consider it, or maybe you were considering it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U696	No, we didn't consider the age limits because there's no way to set an age limit here. Here common sense tells us what age these problems are more serious and what these problems are. I'm not going to count everything we've been discussing, but there were concerns from domestic abuse, mental and physical, to a lot of other situations. Of course, children of a certain age, unfortunately, or luckily, may not be able to perceive all these things. A few years on, they're gonna sense it, and they're gonna want to ask for help, but they don't have that chance. So we're talking about situations like this. I don't think it's necessary to set artificial boundaries here. And in the discussions we had in the Commission, it did not find any support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U697	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U698	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I have been positive about this bill all along, but the more I listen to the answers I have received, the more I think about those you gave to Urmas Reitelmann, Kert Kingo and Moonika Helme, the more I can confirm that this may not be a necessary amendment to the law at all. I would rather believe what I have experienced in my own practice: when talking to people about this amendment to the law, it is quite clear that, indeed, very many do not understand whether it is a need for a psychologist or a psychiatrist. So here's the first question: Don't you think before a kid starts to tip-kill a shrink, he could stop by a shrink? That's the first question. And the other: if he still goes to a psychiatrist, who's gonna buy out the meds?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U699	Thank you. Colleagues, first of all, I will make a small remark. We don't have shrinks, we have doctors. And we have mental health as important as physical health. Please refrain from such terms. I think that in any situation where specific, special assistance is expected, the doctor is important. Psychologists have their options, knowledge, expertise, psychiatrists have theirs. And very often they work together. And these are definitely not insane doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U700	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U701	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A vital example: a slippery street that somebody needs to take care of, but it's not being cared for. A person walks there, falls, breaks his leg, and doctors put him up. I have this question within the framework of this same bill. Do you also have any specific proposals, if you take the case of sanding as a basis, so that children are dealt with more, that the authorities find out what might be the reason for the child to visit a psychiatrist or want to go there? At the moment, we are only dealing with the consequences of this draft, but it would also be reasonable to deal with prevention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U702	Thank you. That's a very good point. This prevention is dealt with by child welfare. We have a number of organisations that are always working on it and making recommendations. Maybe there's a lack of coordination, but this is happening all the time. However, it does not solve all the issues, not specifically those mentioned in this draft, which we have brought before you here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U703	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U704	Thank you very much. I apologize to the waitress when she felt touched by the use of a little crowded fishing mour. But I didn't get an answer to my question. When a child goes to a tip-kill psychiatrist and gets prescribed medication to buy them out? Does he do it on his own in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U705	Thank you for your question. A child can't do it on his own, you know that. These things are arranged by a psychiatrist, if that's what it takes. I'm sure he's not gonna solve it the way you were worried about him right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U706	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U707	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have just said, in answer to my question, that there are some shortcomings in this work. Please list these shortcomings and please state what the government of your party is planning to do and when it will do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U708	Thank you. Unfortunately, I'm not a member of the government or luckily, I don't know. But I guess all the bottlenecks that are won't go away. Life is dynamic. In one day, no problems have arisen; they have arisen in decades. And in fact, these problems are the result of the development of society as a whole; they are not created or eliminated by one government or another. Social scientists are constantly working on these issues, also giving advice on the activities of different organisations. The government certainly has a specific role to play in this, and we have already talked about it before, so that both psychiatric and psychological assistance and the preparation of these specialists would be better. The activities of municipalities and various non-profit organisations must also be coordinated. It's a constant development. It's not like I'm saying today that these are shortcomings, and they won't be here by tomorrow. It's a social development. This is the development of the entire social environment, which is constantly creating new variables. And we, too, must understand this in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U709	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U710	Thank you very much to all the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U711	I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U712	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! I'm gonna tell you right now that I'm not the one who's gonna say anything about this because I'm not a medic. At the same time, I am perhaps the one who says in this matter, in the light of my experience in life. My life has been quite strange, especially at a young age. And as far as I've seen attempted suicide among my family or friends, probably none of you have. In these difficult years, when young people want more attention, understanding, or something else, the only way to attract attention is to cut themselves off. Self - cutting has now come to the point that an emo subculture has already developed. Whoever cuts himself more gets more attention. There were many broken and broken young people. And all of us who had already come through this filth may have had something to say to them, but we didn't have that preparation. We stuck together, we were cornered, we weren't needed by anyone, and, say, we didn't need this society either. We weren't expected, just a police cell waiting for us. It was the only one. But what are you complaining to the police about what your life is like? Today we fear that we will give the children this opportunity. Because we don't know how to spot them. Today maybe the situation is that parents suddenly become ultravegans and they compost the brains of a child every day. And then we say there's gonna be a child welfare specialist to help. I am not a sayr in this matter, but I have been a member of the juvenile committee for 11.5 years. And in this committee, perhaps only in the last few moments, it began to emerge that things are not very well in this family. We're not some big country where we have millions of people to throw in and out. Every human life in Estonia has irreparable value. We have calculated that the cost of human life could be a million. We should let them know their originality, not force them into tight frames to stay here and stay still. If today we give the chance that a child can go to a psychiatrist, yes, we say it's a maybe insane doctor, but maybe he'll find a way to put a child in a safe house or direct someone to help him. Right now, we're afraid the doctor will give him a hard pill. But what if the Syringe-Vellos on the street offer: a light shot against the poppy, a shot straight into the eye? And then he's already in the world of mind poisons, and we say something went wrong. We're too scared. I was six years old when I went to kindergarten and Grandma taught me how to put a fire match on a gas stove to make rooster soup. "Cock soup!" Anyone would say. "Alaeline, under the age of seven, and with the matches, the gas stove will turn on the light!? " But there are a lot of others here who made a mocking to put a fire under the stove. There was that trust. Today, however, we think that a psychologist or, say, a psychiatrist's only desire is to give a child a strong medicine that actually turns him into a boiled vegetable. It's not like that! We went to a mental institution, too. I, who didn't want to go to the Soviet army, understood one thing there: I don't have the point of fooling around in a madhouse, because there is a person opposite me who sees warm citizens every day, many of whom may have been devastated, but many aren't either. Yes, we came to one language, and the doctor realized that sending me to the Soviet army was not the most appropriate thing for me. If we had had knowledge of how to help our companions in those difficult times! But we could only tell others how to injure ourselves in such a way that it would not end fatally so that they would be noticed with their small and big problems. Let's help these children together, those devastated souls! Let's trust them! I think they have a right to a happy life, too. I can tell you that all the people we helped in our time have become pretty interesting people. They have a very broad horizon and made a considerable contribution to Estonian culture and art. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U713	Thank you. Next, Kert Kingo will have the floor on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U714	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I say to Tarmo that if you've seen attempted suicide, I've been working so hard that I've been to a number of places where suicide has been completed, where a young person has done so. And one of them was certainly because the family doctor stopped writing to the antidepressants because he found that the young person had recovered. But that's it. It is worrying that the mental health problems of young people have increased. I fully support addressing this problem and possible solutions to find ways for young people to get the help and support they need. However, this particular amendment of the law could cause damage rather than aid. The introduction of the draft in question states that, according to the draft, considered minors will be entitled to psychiatric treatment of their own accord. So far, this was not possible without parental consent. It also states: "Parent and timely medical intervention contributes to effective and effective treatment, which in turn helps to reduce young people's mental problems. " Notice? The focus is primarily on medical intervention, or treatment, without the knowledge of the parent. It is known that most of young people's mental health problems start with school or relationships with their peers. There is no news for anyone on the part of teachers and fellow students. Misunderstandings with friends, unhappy love, or overly high demands are also common reasons why a young person's mental health is fluctuating. The most common is, of course, Netikius, which remains hidden, but may be the most devastating for a child or a young person's psyche. Yes, the result, i.e. depression or anxiety, can be treated medically with antidepressants and potent sedatives prescribed by a psychiatrist. The baby will be diagnosed, the drugs will make it more dull and less susceptible. However, it does not lose the cause of anxiety disorder or depression. The drugs don't change it, they don't undo it. All such problems require support and cooperation from the whole family, support from your family. It is therefore important that parents are involved in the process rather than being driven away and acted behind their backs without their knowledge. You know, most families are normal, not troubled. Most parents love their children and want only good for them, participate in their lives, and help in their worries. They are not enemies of their children. It is very sad to note that last year 14 children took their own lives, but that same year a total of 2711 school-age children had left home, family home and elsewhere. They're still alive. This number of children have taken a self-destructive course. They have worried their parents, and they have also brought them into a desperate situation. In fact, however, this reaction of these children is the output and consequence of something. Maybe it's the school-puss that has led them to a mental breakdown. Many of these children have been given antidepressants and sedatives on their own initiative by caring officials. Do you think it's helped these kids? No! Quite the opposite. The pills have given them the opportunity to abuse them or engage them in business, and this pushes the children further down the stairs. Why am I saying this? Because all such problems must be solved not by going to a psychiatrist to receive treatment, or medication, but by identifying the root cause. As several specialists have pointed out, young people need to talk to some specialists first. And for that, we have a wide network of therapists, psychologists, counselors, supporters. When the leg hurts, it does not immediately cut off the leg, but it begins to examine the cause of the pain. Yes, everyone has a right to health protection. But is administering pills really a health protection? How much responsibility, how prudently will a mentally unstable child be able to decide on matters relating to his or her health, as this bill requires? Even adults can't do it in this state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U715	Would the waitress like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U716	However, it remains unclear to what purpose such a legislative amendment is actually intended to be made. It is obvious that this will not solve the problems, although the initiators hope it will. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U717	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U718	The constant use of media to enforce this law also raises legitimate questions. I agree that there are troubled families where the involvement of a parent in the necessary psychiatrist's appointment is excluded, but then specific provisions that regulate specific situations and offer real solutions would suffice. Why is it that young people, without their parents' knowledge, are forced directly into a psychiatrist's appointment rather than directed to a psychologist, a therapist, or a counselor first? I still haven't gotten any arguments for that. Instead, I see that pushing through my political ideology is more important than the mental health of young people. Children are wanted to be transferred from their families and removed from their families' support. Caring will only be performed. This is very frustrating and hypocritical. Therefore, the Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support this draft and proposes to stop reading bill 115. The proposal for interruption has been submitted to the Riigikogu Management Board electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U719	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Kütt takes the floor. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U720	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's second-reading draft law 115, the draft law amending § 3 of the psychiatric assistance act, is a draft with a very long history. I'll name a few dates. On 3 July 2019, the Chancellor of Justice will address the Social Affairs Minister Tanel Kiige with a proposal to change the situation in which a sufficiently mature young person under 18 years of age, who can be considered, is unable to contact a psychiatrist without the consent of a legal representative or without the permission of the court in order to obtain psychiatric assistance. Five months goes by, nothing. On 3 December 2019, the Social Democrats will launch a draft to put an end to this unconstitutional situation. The Board of the Riigikogu appoints the Social Affairs Committee as the lead committee. 9 January 2020 The Government of the Republic is discussing and supporting the draft Social Democrats, but it also considers it necessary to add an extension so that this possibility is also available to adults with reduced capacity. Of course, the initiators agree with this addition. 21 January By 4 February, by the deadline for amendments, no political group or member of the Riigikogu, with the exception of the speaker before you, will submit any proposals. I will now read out a series of dates from 2020: April 20, April 27, April 29, April 30, June 1, September 14, September 28, and October 12. On all these eight days, my proposal as a member of the Commission to put a draft on the agenda of the 115 meetings of the Social Committee was voted down in the Committee on Social Affairs. I have always been of the opinion that the debate is better than the silence, but with 5 votes against, 4 in favour of this proposal was not supported eight times. On page 3 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft under discussion today, there is a list of dates. I don't read them. But for the sake of the verbatim report, there were eight dates in 2020 and five in 2021. These are the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs when this draft was discussed. And if the date of initiation is also taken into account, it can be said that this draft has been discussed 14 times. More dates. On 15 June 2020, 36 organisations for the mental health of young people sent a joint letter asking the Social Committee to support this draft and to send it quickly to the hall for second and third reading. On 14 December 2020, the Estonian Central Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Group of Isamaa initiated the draft Act amending § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act. On 19 January 2021 the Centre Party and on 21 January the Isamaa Group made a statement in which they wished to withdraw from the three drafts submitted jointly on 14 December as initiators. What's changed since then? Perhaps the most decisive draft, hopefully, to become a law is that in the meantime the government has changed and today's Prime Minister considers the mental health of children and children's rights to be important. That is why the draft procedure initiated by the Social Democrats is taking place in the Commission, it is also moving to a large Chamber and perhaps it will find a solution. I am very grateful to all the dozens of organisations, the best experts in the field, who sent their supporting opinions and rushed to send the Commission a draft to the Chamber for second and third reading. My special thanks and deep bow to the Head of the Children's Mental Health Centre, Anne Kleinberg, a child psychiatrist who practically became a member of our committee, who attended almost all the meetings of the Commission where draft 115 was discussed, answered questions tirelessly and did a public-initiative enlightenment. Thank you so much! Finally, I would like to quote the Estonian Express of 13 January this year, where the partner of law firm Ellex Raidla, Ants Nõmper, writes in an article entitled "Children is also a person": "According to the Constitution, everyone has the right to health protection. An act that essentially deprives a teenage child of the possibility of being treated is unconstitutional and consequently void. The viral pandemic has further aggravated psychiatric problems. However, the Riigikogu does not rush to defend children's human rights, and the political compromises proposed are aimed not at solving the problem but at concealing it." I sincerely hope that the dates of 10 March and 17 March will be great dates and this long history, the length of the text short, but a very important draft will gain the power of the law and eliminate unequal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U721	Thank you. Siret Kotka will have the floor on behalf of the Centre Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U722	Head of a good sitting and good members of the Riigikogu! The law on psychiatric assistance has been in the proceedings of the Riigikogu for a long time. This is entangled in the question of whether psychiatric assistance could be given to a minor child without the parent's knowledge and parental consent. In practice, most cases are where parents are aware that their child is attending a psychiatrist's appointment, with the support and coordination of the parent. Unfortunately, there are situations where young people do not have a supportive family environment. The amendment introduced by this Act allows a person with reduced capacity to receive treatment at his/her own request. To this end, the treating physician assesses the child's ability to consider, explains the treatment to the child and should obtain the consent of the child. If, in the opinion of the doctor, the minor is not sufficiently prudent to decide on his/her own treatment, a parent or other person who is trusted by the minor must be involved with the consent of the child. The goal is to get the best treatment for the child. If a young person who is legally incapacitated moves to another city to study and resides with grandparents or other relatives and needs psychiatric assistance, this allowance can be granted by a grandparent or a relative. At the same time, I think it is right that we strive for healthier families, where relations between parents and children are reliable and the parent is aware of the kind of treatment his or her child receives. A parent's right and duty is to be informed of the mental and physical health of his or her child. I would point out that the amendment still allows parents to see from the information system what kind of doctor the child has been seeing and what kind of medication he has been prescribed. The previous speaker stated that these legislative changes are too slow, but it must be said that politics is sometimes very much the art of compromises, and sometimes it takes more time to reach a good solution. Today we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U723	Thank you. There's a hand up on Tarmo Kruus Hill. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U724	Thank you, good Chairman! I have a question. We are in the middle of a second reading, but you are saying that we are speaking on behalf of the political groups. I have to say, unfortunately, that we in the Isamaa Group have dissenting opinions like candy in a written dog. Everyone has a stand in their own right. I was still here to present my own personal view of my own life experience. Let me get this straight. Everyone still has the right to a free opinion in their speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U725	Thank you, very correct clarification. Indeed, members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. I was obviously wrong when I called the speakers on behalf of the Group a speaker. At the same time, it is also right that they represent the general position of the group. Let us go to the amendments. Three amendments have been tabled. The first is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U726	I ask for a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U727	Thank you. Let's take a vote. Dear Riigikogu, we are going to vote on the first 115 amendments to the bill. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U728	There are 64 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, against 18. The amendment has been accepted. Amendment 2, tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, and the proposal of the commission is to take this into account in substance. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U729	I would also like to ask the group to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U730	Let's put it to a vote. Do we need a hall call or can we go to the vote now? Thank you. Let's get to the vote right now. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by Mr Kütt, Member of the Riigikogu. Proposal by the lead committee: consider the substance. Riho Breivel has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U731	That's why I couldn't vote here. I already had a problem with the first vote. On the voting strip, I had one thing to say, the volume regulator, and I can't get it out of there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U732	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur has another question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U733	Yeah. Do you hear me? I think it is. I wanted to ask you, what are we essentially voting on? If the Commission has taken this proposal into account in substance, I understand that they have formulated it somewhere with the correct wording. If we now approve of Mr Hunt's proposal, will any other amendment change? Normally, if the Commission has taken some substance into account, this means that some of the following amendments have put this wording into place. I would like to understand exactly what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U734	Yes, thank you! With this amendment by Mr Hunt, the Commission has taken account of Amendment 1, and if we approve it, the first amendment will remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U735	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U736	Thank you. It is my understanding that, once the Commission has accepted the proposal in substance, this point will not be put to the vote in the large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U737	All such amendments may be put to the vote on a proposal from political groups. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U738	I have a slightly similar question to Aivar Kokal. If we have accepted the first amendment, then the second amendment has therefore also been accepted. If I now correctly understood the explanation given by the President of the Riigikogu that the amendment proposed by Helmen Küt is taken into account in point 1. Let me get this straight: if we had now voted against the amendment tabled by Mr Hunter, it would automatically cancel the first amendment? That is why I am asking again: if we support Mr Hunt's amendment, then the first amendment will remain in force if we do not support Mr Hunt's amendment, as if the first amendment, which has just been accepted by the Grand Hall, had to lapse? That is why I actually want to be clear about what we are voting on and whether it can be voted at all, as it is, in essence, already included in the first amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U739	Thank you. If this amendment is accepted, there will be no change to it. If it is rejected, Amendment 1 will change the proposal by Mr Hunter. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U740	I apologise in advance, but, ladies and gentlemen, I consider what I hear here practically impossible. It's just incredible. Is it not possible, after all, to adopt our law on home and working procedures and once to learn everything about voting? Questions are asked that are simply impossible to imagine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U741	Thank you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U742	Thank you. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U743	Yeah, I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U744	Excellent! Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I need an explanation now. We prepared 115 procedures quite thoroughly in advance in the Centre Party Group. And we had the opposite in the Committee on Social Affairs: that once we have accepted the first amendment, the amendments taken into account in essence by Helmen Hunt will fall away. If the amendments tabled by Helmen Hunt were accepted, the first amendment would become substantially amended, i.e. it would fall away and there would be legal nonsense. You have now interpreted that if the amendments made by Helmen Hunt are not supported, then it is as if the first amendment falls away, which is exactly the opposite of the view of the Social Committee. Would you please explain to me what the procedure is? Was substantive consideration dependent on the first amendment, not the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U745	Thank you. Yes, you are right in that regard that there is a certain contradiction. However, the sittings department considers that this proposal can still be put to the vote. And with this proposal, I've got the paperwork in front of me. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U746	Thank you. I just want to explain to everyone that it is possible to put it to a vote. It really is. But the essence of this means that if the amendments proposed by Helmen Hunt are supported, it will actually substantially change the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U747	Thank you. The Commission considers that Helmen Hunt's proposal must be taken into account in substance. And the part that was accepted by the Commission has been incorporated into the wording of the first amendment. So if Helmen Hunt's proposal is accepted and the lead committee has essentially approved it, there will be no change. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U748	Thank you. Well, I understand the substance of this dispute, but I remind my good colleagues that if amendments have been sent to the Chamber, the Rules of Procedure will give us certain cases where amendments cannot be voted on. In this case, there is no such situation. If this happens to us, and this happens from time to time in this Chamber, that the amendments are voted in cross-cross and contradicted, then it is always possible to interrupt the second reading and send the draft back to the Commission. We have proposed this anyway. Let's go to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U749	Thank you. Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U750	I'd like to find another compromise. Why don't you take the chairman's break so that the Social Affairs Committee can gather quickly and think through what they want to do exactly and give us an adequate response to what it means to vote for or against this amendment? The current positions are exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U751	Thank you. This is a complex problem and a controversial moment indeed. But there's a lot of questions. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U752	I think we would have got over this very simply if the President of the Riigikogu had said that if helmen Küt's amendment were to be supported, both the first and the second amendment would remain in force and this would create a legal nonsense that must not arise. The Riigikogu cannot let this pass. Consequently, as the large hall of the Riigikogu supported the first amendment, the only formal large hall cannot support Helmen Kütt's Amendment 2. The Social Affairs Committee did its job right. He said that, in essence, the amendment tabled by Helmen Hunter was taken into account. In order for the large hall to act legally right now, it must, in order not to create legal confusion, formally oppose the amendment tabled by Helmen Hunt, since we have actually already accepted the first amendment. Everything!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U753	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U754	Thank you. Watching this game, I think we should take some time off right now. If this bill has come from the Social Affairs Committee, let them eat their soup properly, as they say in the language of the country, and say what is right. This is really messed up right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U755	Thank you. Andrei Korobenik. Somehow his name has shifted downwards all the time, so let's take him now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U756	Thank you. For the sake of clarity, however, I would like to clarify your response to what will happen if we vote against the current amendment. The first amendment, which has been adopted, does not happen at all. It is very important to repeat this, because you have answered this question three times differently. It is a very important aspect that if we vote against now, the first amendment will remain in force and nothing will happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U757	Yeah, I totally agree with that. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U758	Thank you. My proposal is to support Mr Helme's proposal to go to the vote. Those who support this draft as a whole, please vote against Helmen Hunter's proposal 2. Let's take our questions back and get to the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U759	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U760	Thank you, Mr President. I would remind my good colleagues that our work is on lawmaking and legislation is already beginning in committees. The question is that we need to rule out any cull in our work so that there will be no later vague litigation, which may also lead to financial burdens. At the moment, I see the problem of two opposing proposals from the Commission. At the same time, our Rules of Procedure provide that both must be voted on. However, I think that the Committee on Social Affairs should still shape a common position for the Chamber. That's what I think is most important right now. And since we have now discovered a legal cull, I personally see absolutely no alternative but to interrupt the reading of this bill. This is actually our fault, the Commission's fault.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U761	Thank you. Such a proposal has already been received. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U762	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, such situations have occurred repeatedly here in the Riigikogu over the years. And it's going to look like this right now. The amendment tabled by Mr Hunt is partly included in the first amendment. It is now right to put this proposal to the vote, and not just the group to which Helmen Kütt belongs, but any political group. If we vote against the second amendment now, we will simply move forward. If there was such a failure to vote in favour of this amendment, the chairman of the committee asked the President to take a technical break, and the Commission decided on the spot to suspend the reading of the draft decision in order to correct all the amendments. That's how it's been over the years, there's nothing to talk about. I'm guessing we could move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U763	Yes, indeed, that has been the case. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U764	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I also have the same proposal as Martin Helmel and Toomas Kivimäe: we are going to the vote! And I would very much like to ask my fellow Members to vote against my proposal, because it is essentially resolved with the first amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U765	Thank you. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U766	Thank you. I have now heard different interpretations from several people on procedural issues here, two completely contradictory interpretations. Consequently, it is not possible to vote on such a incomplete draft here. I also believe that we need to interrupt reading now and send the draft back to the Commission. Perhaps the Commission will be able to formalise it correctly so that we do not have to discuss this interpretation in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U767	Thank you. However, since the Commission has not proposed to stop reading, we must vote through all the amendments in the Chamber and then go to the specific proposal that we have. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U768	In fact, the situation is that the draft is prepared by a commission responsible for ensuring regularity throughout the draft law. The current situation is that the Commission has not actually done the correct work. We don't have to make up for anyone's mistakes in this hall. Let's vote the same way, let's vote the bill down! There is only one conclusion: the work of this committee has been a failure. It is not up to us here to discuss whether we are doing the same or the other way around. What if it goes the other way? If the vote is taken in such a way that the results are contradictory, both proposals are valid? So what do we do? There is no solution at all here but to stop reading the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U769	Thank you. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U770	Thank you. I do not agree in any way with a good fellowman when he claims that the Committee on Social Affairs has not done the right work. Yes, we have done our job very correctly! We have the decision to propose that the second reading be stopped; we have discussed the amendments. The fact that dear colleagues in the EKRE do not know the Law on Home and Working Procedures is not an improvement for the members of the Social Affairs Committee. I have a proposition. Let's go to the votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U771	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U772	There's no way I can agree with Siret Eagle that we don't know how to get home and work. We are seeing very well how, for perfectly clear ideological reasons, this bill is being rammed through. And it is now quite clear that, if there are so many different interpretations, the Commission has not done its work correctly and is now simply trying to formalise its incorrect work by force. I can't agree with that in any way. When it is rammed through, we will certainly consider different ways of challenging this outcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U773	Thank you. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U774	Thank you. My main message is still that we vote. But I understand that there have been various questions before this vote, and on behalf of the group, I ask for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U775	Ten minutes break. Ladies and gentlemen, Since Riho Breivel, a member of the Riigikogu, has certain problems with the computer and our IT department is trying to find a solution for them, I will take an additional ten minutes for the manager's break. I hope that all the problems will be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U776	Dear Riigikogu, the break is over and it seems that the problems of our colleague have been solved. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by Mr Kütt, Member of the Riigikogu. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take this into account in substance. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U777	There are 16 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, against 59. The amendment was not supported. We will go to Amendment 3, tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, and the proposal of the commission is to take this into account in substance. Peter Ernits, did you have your hand up? No, it wasn't. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U778	Yeah, I asked for the floor. I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and I would also like a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U779	A ten-minute break at the proposal of the EKRE Group. Kalle Grünthal, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U780	Yes, it is. The question is that I have received information by telephone that it is impossible to vote on the ambassadors of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. I.T.'s been tried, but the phone's not answering. I don't think we can go any further until it's guaranteed that all the ambassadors will be able to attend the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U781	Yes, thank you! I am fully aware of this problem, and the IT department has also said that communication is really down and therefore the break needs to be extended. But I'll let those with their hands up ask questions. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U782	Hi! I just wanted to check the comms because I was missing a picture earlier, but right now it looks like everything's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U783	Yeah, it's okay now, we can see you and we can hear you well. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U784	Hello! I also want to make sure I'm real, because sometimes I see some hands up here, but I can't hear anything, I can't see anyone. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U785	Yeah, you're totally there, too, we can hear you and we can see you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U786	Thank you. The question is, I assume that if you take a break now, it should be such that there is a proper connection. I would point out that Riho Breivel was unable to vote on the first amendment, and since he was unable to provide information on it in time, it actually went the way it did not comply with the Riigikogu's rules of procedure and domestic law. I have a request to ensure a complete controlled connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U787	Thank you. Yes, but since we received information about his technical difficulties after the vote, the vote is still valid. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U788	Hi! I'm just doing a comm check to see if I can hear and see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U789	Yeah. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U790	We see that everything works in itself. If possible, please continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U791	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U792	I'm not original. Am I there or am I there? In the meantime, I couldn't vote either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U793	Yeah, right now I think I'm okay. Paul Woodland!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U794	Thank you very much. I mean, it's been a mess now, and frankly, I don't know what stage we're at, what point we're at, what point we're at. In the meantime, there wasn't a picture for a long time. So it's a mess.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U795	We are on the third amendment to the draft 115. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U796	Thank you. I still have a very fundamental question. Riho Breivel couldn't just vote. How can we organise our work in this way if, for example, there is an important vote, as we always do? In fact, any vote is important; it is an expression of our will, as members of the Riigikogu. And if, for technical reasons, I do not get in touch and I do not have a vote, how can it be said that since you announced it only afterwards, the result of the vote is valid? But I can't let you know at this point. It still can't be like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U797	If we find out about this problem during the vote, it is possible to take a break and a member of the Riigikogu can communicate his position. Our teleworking rules state how exactly this procedure works in this case. Marika Tuus-Laul, please! He's probably in trouble too. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U798	Thank you. I referred earlier to the problem of Riho Breivel. It's obvious he can't get in touch with the hall right now. When the whole EKRE group disappeared from the picture, I began to remember very much the action of the Ukrainian Council: if anyone has to speak, the chairs will be turned upside down and will not be allowed to speak on the stand. At this point, the coalition is in the lead bars. Now we have also seen the moment that Mrs Song could not speak, so I think we should take some 20 minutes break to make things clear for the IT men. We must not repeat the opportunities for opportunism in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U799	Thank you. I don't think there's a coalition to blame here. Those are the technical errors and hiccups that we're stuck with here, and the IT department is working on them right now. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U800	Thank you. I would like to say that I lost the signal during the vote on the second amendment. I couldn't get in touch with anyone from anywhere, and eventually I.T.S. said I just had to take it. And now there's a signal. I just wanted to inform you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U801	Then it's nice to have a signal, but you don't have to suffer, so help will come. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U802	Thank you. I come back to the fact that if I have technical problems and I need to vote, but I can't do that, and I can't let anyone know at this point, I can't do it until later, then I can no longer express my will. And in that case, I am not treated equally with those members of the Riigikogu who are in the Chamber under the law. We have long-distance sessions so that we can, if necessary, be away from our health situation. That's why we can't be forced into the hall. So, what's it gonna be like? If Riho Breivel or anyone who will continue to be unable to express their will, how can we consider the vote that one person later says I wanted to vote on, but I couldn't? Then they just run over it and say, well, they didn't, your problem. It's not his problem. We cannot give rise to technical problems because someone's statement of intent is being ignored.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U803	Yes, indeed, when it comes to bad Internet connection, our IT department is unable to fix it or provide assistance, but if it is an obstacle to some kind of program or computer fault, it must be reported and the IT department will help. In that case, we will also take a break so that these obstacles can be removed. Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U804	Thank you. I have been informed by two people from the group that they are not getting into the system right now. I have a request that we take a break and wait for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U805	Yes, the President of the sitting also had the same proposal that I said earlier to take a break. But since we have a whole bunch of hands up here, before that, I will hear from my fellow Members. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U806	Thank you. Not only is Riho Breive out there in the hole, I was in the middle, too, and I couldn't vote. But who do you want to tell if Helle-Moonika Helme? Only later is it possible to say that it was not possible to vote. Should we call someone or how the system works? We're an IT state, but it's kind of awkward right now. It's a long-term sitting, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U807	Yeah, our long-distance hearing...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U808	... And the night is still young. We only have point 6. We're gonna have a vote today, and we're gonna have a vote. I don't know what time we... Are we going out in the morning?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U809	Thank you. In the process of conducting our remote session, it is stated that the obstacle is immediately requested to report to the secretary of the hall by phone number 6316346 or by e-mail to virgats@riigikogu.ee. In addition, you can also call our IT department directly. I'll give you the phone numbers, just in case, 6316400 and 6316407. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U810	Thank you, good Chairman! I'll let you know that four or five of our group people had a gray moment, they didn't have a picture, then there was a picture, but there was no voice. So it seems that this problem is overwhelming at this point. Some say they've got the picture back, but at this point, no sound. We are demanding and suffering.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U811	Thank you. Tarmo Tammel isn't a procedural question, is he? But it probably is. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U812	Thank you. I recommend using this option, which is used by the Centre Party Group. We have an envoy in the hall whose phone number we all have, and if there's a glitch, so he can't vote, he'll immediately be notified and the information will be passed on. I also recommend that other groups use it, quite innovative.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U813	Thank you. That's a good suggestion. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U814	I can't tell you if you can hear me or how much you can hear me, because I have an incessant hack in the system: there are a few seconds and then there aren't a few seconds, there are a few seconds, there aren't a few seconds. So there's no mention of a normal working environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U815	Thank you. We heard well, but we didn't see the picture. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U816	Thank you. A procedural question. It is not possible to take a break of more than ten minutes, but it may happen that this will happen several times before there is a connection with all colleagues. Would it be possible to report this before those who, in the meantime, are watching their office leave here so they don't have to run here every ten minutes to hear that four or five people can't take part again? I would be very grateful to you if this message were to come at some eighth or ninth minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U817	Thank you. That is very reasonable, of course, but unfortunately, these problems do not occur at the same time. I've asked for an extra break. And since it seems that this problem is currently in several political groups and the IT department is dealing with it, I am inevitably forced to announce a new break. But first, Hanno Pevkur has his hand up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U818	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I've realized that everyone's been able to reconnect. Where's the information that there's someone else in the factions who can't get in touch? Yeah, the connection was down, but it looks like everyone's back up by now. Maybe we can move on to the agenda after all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U819	Thank you. Well, it doesn't seem like everyone does. Many members of the Riigikogu have reported problems and Tarmo Kruusimäe said that their members still have problems. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U820	Right now, they don't seem to have a problem. I'd like to keep going. But I understand these ambassadors, because the distance is pretty long, we're gonna be here with a delay. We are also agile and innovative and use chat to communicate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U821	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U822	I am simply informing you that the members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party do not have any problems at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U823	Thank you, I'm glad to hear that. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U824	I need to react a little bit to the speech by Mr Pevkur that he feels that communication has now come back. I have information that Alar and Uno still have a problem, and there's another person. I would say to a good colleague, Hanno Pevkur, that feelings must be left in bed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U825	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U826	I'm glad Kalle knows exactly what it's like with feelings and everything else, but let's keep it that way and personal remarks as well. This hall should be where we work. Good Chairman of the Riigikogu, there is a concrete proposal: we can carry out a verification of presence and proceed with the sitting. And if you refer here to Mrs Helme's remark, I would point out that even in the ordinary session, if we do not have a sitting with remote participation, it may be that some member of the Riigikogu will not make it to the Chamber of the Riigikogu, for example because the car tire is broken or because there is some other reason. But that's why the Riigikogu doesn't stand up. That is why there is control of the presence and if more than 51 members of the Riigikogu are present, it is possible to hold a hearing. Also in the ordinary session, we sometimes have people who leave the session. So once again, we're gonna get through this right now. We will check the number of members of the Riigikogu in connection with the remote participation system, and we will be able to continue the sitting nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U827	Thank you. I still prefer this option that the IT department solves all the problems and all members of the Riigikogu who are logged in can also participate. Mart Helme, please! But in between, I'm gonna tell everyone who should be hearing that if they don't get any other contact, at least they're gonna hear what's going on in this hall. Please let me know as soon as the problem is solved. Mart Helme, please! Looks like there's a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U828	Yeah. Have I now penetrated this virtually impenetrable wall of the Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U829	I can hear you, but I can't see you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U830	I cannot accept Hanno Pevkur's patronizing tone and attitude. Please, Hanno Pevkur, avoid this patronizing attitude! You're not our father. You're not our mother. That's one. Secondly, I would like to remind you that, for the first time in the Chamber, there was the introduction of remote sittings, the noise that reform parties and middle parties were making about the fact that the ambassador's will cannot be ignored or questioned in any way, and if someone is in close contact or self-insulation, he must have the opportunity to participate. What we are seeing now is that we are in a very bad technical situation. It's been in a very bad place all day. We've already seen it in Question Time when we've been in trouble all the time. We have a problem, and this problem can't be ignored in the fatherly way, so you can pull yourself together and check your presence, and we'll get on with it. We must have technical support at the level that we do not have such a problem. If this cannot be ensured, the sitting shall be suspended until such time as it is ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U831	Thank you. A moment ago, I received information that the problem has probably been solved and that there is a connection with our good colleagues. But we still have a number of questions here. Do you want to ask your procedural questions or are we going to the vote? Please, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U832	Thank you, Mr President. I must also make a criticism of a good colleague, Hanno Pevkur, who says that if a car gets flat, that is the problem. I believe that, in this case, this is not a problem of its own. This was just your party's proposal to hold a long-distance hearing this week, and when we voted against it, you just ran over us. At the moment, the situation is that, since you wanted this remote session, everyone must be guaranteed the opportunity to attend the remote session. Since these problems may still arise here, I support Mart Helme's proposal to interrupt the session, because this current repair is a 'gum patching' that may not have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U833	Thank you. At the moment, everyone seems to have a connection. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U834	Thank you. Indeed, at the moment, it seems that there is a connection. But I still want to tell Hanno Pevkur that this situation cannot be compared to someone not coming into the hall or breaking a tire on the way. I compare it to an analogous situation when I'm sitting in the hall like I'm sitting in front of a computer right now, and I don't, for example, have a remote control. Then it'll be accounted for. The matter will be suspended until technically my remote control is fixed and I can vote. It's an analogous situation right now, not that I'm gonna break a tire somewhere or I'm gonna be in a cafe somewhere. I would ask not to throw such patronizing comparisons on top of my nose. I'm ready to move on right now, but that's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U835	Thank you. Looks like we're all ready to move on and take the vote. But since it's been such a big difference, I'm gonna make a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on 115 third amendments tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take this into account in substance. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U836	Does Kalle Grünthal have a procedural question? Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U837	Thank you. I still have to say there's a technical problem. When I vote, it's like Riho Breivel, and I can't vote. Here comes the voice button or the voice panel how to say it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U838	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U839	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I took part in this last vote, but the information system shows that I was somewhere else. Something's really wrong. I strongly recommend that this hearing be suspended so that we can get our system in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U840	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U841	I couldn't vote. I didn't have that traffic light where I could have pressed on the color I thought was right. So I don't know what kind of information system was stored, but I certainly couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U842	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U843	Thank you. At this point, it doesn't seem like a trial, it's a circus. Actually, the system isn't working. I really strongly suggest that we interrupt the sitting and continue this when we have the capacity to do so. In this way, it will not be possible to continue this sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U844	Thank you. Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U845	We are now on point 6, but we still have a lot of votes ahead. If we move so lamely now, I guess these things won't improve by themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U846	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U847	Mr. Chairman! In the event that the Home and Working Procedures Act does not provide clear guidance on how to proceed, I believe that the President should convene the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and decide with them what to do next. If you do not have a consensus, this proposal, which will have a majority, will be put to the vote in this Chamber and, accordingly, we will work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U848	Thank you. Andrei Korobenik!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U849	Thank you. I'm just saying that in the fairly large Central Party Group, all the ambassadors are fine with the vote, so we're doing very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U850	I'm glad to hear that. Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U851	Thank you. I would point out, however, that we did not get a lot of delegates to vote, and that is a serious problem. Mikhail Stalnukhin suggested that the governing board of the Riigikogu should meet and discuss how to proceed. I'd like to know what they're discussing. Are they discussing that, well, I don't know whether, despite technical problems, we are going forward, no matter what the outcome is, whether people can vote or not, we are going to roll through all these things, which I do not think is right, or what they are discussing there and what we will then vote on, as Mr Stalnukhin proposed? I don't really understand. The fact is that there are big fish inside, people have not been able to carry out their declarations of intent, have not been able to vote, and that is a problem. That would be a very big problem if we were to sit in the Chamber, and actually we should take into account the principle of equal treatment for both those present at the hearing and those present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U852	Thank you. The procedure for conducting our remote sitting says that if the obstacles do not allow the hearing to be conducted and cannot be removed within a reasonable time, the President of the sitting shall close the sitting. Unfortunately, we have this threat, but I do hope, because we still have a lot of items on our agenda that we can solve this problem. If the rest of the procedural questions are all about the same subject, I don't think we're going to get very far to discuss it in this Chamber. I'll take the manager's break again. We will give the IT department the opportunity to solve these problems a little longer this time, and if the problems continue after the break, I will use this right and the obligation to close the session. Hopefully tomorrow will be all right. Unfortunately, it is not possible to work as it is today. I'll take the manager's break for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U853	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the President is over. During the break taken by the President, the Management Board of the Riigikogu also met, and the Board of the Riigikogu decided that before we proceed to the hearing, we will conduct a test vote to see if the system works. The IT service of the Riigikogu says that the system works from this side, i.e. from the Riigikogu. After the test vote, we ask for a signal if anyone else has any problems, and then I will tell you how we decided to proceed on the board. Now, can we now conjure up a test vote on the environment? Ladies and gentlemen, we are having a test vote, please press the button! For or against or impartial, it doesn't matter, as long as you signal that you have a system working. Are you in favour of a test vote? Anyone in favour of a test vote may press the button, and who... Now, the system shows that all the possible versions have been in use, i.e. we had 37 votes in favour, 15 votes against, 29 abstentions and 9 elds didn't take part in the test vote, which is that the voting system in itself works. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U854	Mr Grünthal thanks the President of the sitting. You read that nine people didn't take part in the hearing. What does that mean? They don't have a connection or they just don't get involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U855	This means that they did not take part in the test vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U856	The question to be specified: what if they have no connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U857	That's where we're gonna be right now, Mr. Grünthal, thank you! In short, we will continue with our agenda and the Bureau has also taken a decision. We agreed that we will continue to use the electronic system in the future, as in the past in the case of a remote sitting. If, during the next vote, if we vote on an amendment, a member of the Riigikogu cannot press 'for', 'against' or 'unbiased' in the system, the email address is virgats@riigikogu.ee, where you can send your vote within five minutes. This is due to point 13 of the order of our remote sitting. Kert Kingo, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U858	Thank you. Our group leader was informed by the voting system that you were logged out because you arrived at the Riigikogu Hall. Obviously, that's a lie. That's why he couldn't even try.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U859	Thank you. Then you have to check if the leader of the group has a card in it. Yeah, we've got a reason. The Chairman of the Riigikogu took the seat of the leader of the political group and turned his card on. I hope that the Chairman of the Group will forgive the President of the Riigikogu for sitting in the wrong chair. It is now possible for the Chairman of the Group to rejoin the electronic system, because the Chairman of the Riigikogu pulled off the voting card of the Chairman of the Group and turned the card on his/her seat. The Chairman of the Riigikogu apologizes to the Chairman of the Group. Mr. Grünthal, can we move on to the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U860	Mr Grünthal would like to put forward a procedural proposal that, since there was such a human confusion, I would like to ask for another test vote. This would also be in line with the test proposal you have made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U861	I believe that we will also be able to find out immediately in the vote on the amendment whether Martin Helme can vote and has joined the system. What we are seeing now is that Martin Helme has logged into the remotely participating session system. This system shows nicely, so it can also be assumed that it can vote. Therefore, we can proceed to the vote on Amendment 3... Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U862	A message just came through the app. Kert Kingo reported that he had this system hanged. That means he can't vote. This suggests that the system does not function as it should.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U863	Once again, we learned from the IT service of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu that the system works in the Riigikogu view. Perhaps there are some problems with Kert Kingo's Internet connection. However, we have not put the [amendment] to the vote at the moment. If we put the [amendment] to the vote, we will see whether Kert Kingo can participate or not. And this is the subject we have been dealing with for a long time in establishing the procedure for a remote sitting, so that poor Internet connection from the side of the client, or member of the Riigikogu, cannot be an obstacle to moving forward with the sitting. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U864	Thank you, Mr President. I would remind you that we are in the Riigikogu, where we will vote on the laws concerning Estonia's life. At the moment, I get the impression that we are not in the Riigikogu, but in some kind of gamble, if we're lucky, we'll vote. You can't work like this, Hanno Pevkur! You can't work like this!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U865	Mr Grünthal, thank you for your thought. But the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has confirmed that the IT system works. He did the same in a test vote, and we can move on with the votes. Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U866	Thank you. Well, actually, have I got something wrong now? I think we have already voted on this third amendment once. Okay, we protested, but I haven't noticed that it was canceled. Why are we now going back to voting on this third amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U867	Thank you. This vote really took place, but since the President of the Riigikogu, as the chair of the sitting, did not confirm this vote with a hammer strike, the vote was not held. If I remember correctly, Kalle Grünthal had a procedural question before confirming the result of the vote. And that is why we need to re-enact this vote. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U868	As far as possible, I ask you to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U869	Well, that makes sense. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U870	I also had a proposal to go to the vote, and I also have an answer to Mr Grünthal. If there are any problems, we have just agreed that it is possible to vote by e-mail by notifying the messenger. So if there is really any other obstacle to the Community, then we can solve it by voting by e-mail.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U871	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U872	I want to point out that I did not hear anything about Kalle Grünthal's last speech because I lost my picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U873	Thank you. Looks like you're okay with the picture and the sound right now, and it looks like you can hear me too. So we can go back to the vote on the third amendment. Let me remind you that we are voting on Amendment number three, which has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, and the commission has taken this into account in substance. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U874	The amendment was voted in favour by 17 votes to 58, with 4 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. With this, we have examined all the amendments. We have also had a proposal from the EKRE Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 115 and we must take a position on this. Is it okay if we go to the vote because we just voted? Dear Riigikogu, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the EKRE Group 115, the second reading of the draft law supplementing § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U875	There were 18 in favour of the proposal, 71 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U876	Today's eighth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 3 of the Conservative People's Party Act 303 and the presentation by the Member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, on behalf of the initiators. Please! [[Silence.]] Dear Kert Kingo, please check the microphone! [[Silence.]] We heard you just before, I hope we get your microphone sound in this hall. [[Silence.]] I'm sorry, I can't hear you. I can't hear you right now. I have a question for the EKRE Group whether you want someone else to replace Kert Kingo, or we'll take a moment... Okay, Kert Kingo, please! Can we hear you now? I can't hear you right now. I will then ask the EKRE Group whether you are ready to send someone to replace them. If it isn't, I'm gonna take a two-minute break so we can get in touch with Kert Kingo and find out what his microphone problem is. We just had contact with him. Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U877	Now, can we test Kert Kingo's microphone? Let's try.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U878	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U879	Very well, excellent! Yeah, Kert, it's really nice to hear from you, so we can move on to the hearing. Break's over. Please, be good!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U880	Draft 303 has been prepared by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa Party and it has been initiated on 14 December 2020. The purpose of this draft is to amend the law on psychiatric assistance by establishing the right of a incapacitated person to receive psychiatric assistance at his/her own request or with his/her informed consent. The right to psychiatric assistance is essential for the health of young people. In practice, both children and adults are quite naturally involved in the treatment process, given the patient's desire, circumstances and condition. There are no particular problems in this respect and there is no need for specific regulation. This draft amendment to the law on psychiatric assistance provides assistance to all those who are in a position worthy of treatment beyond their will. Also for those who agree to their treatment or treatment, they themselves and their parents. The above constitute the lion's share of the total patient population. However, the weakness of § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act appears in individual cases when a minor person wants help, needs help and can be treated, but his or her legal representative does not agree. A problem is cases where a parent does not consider a adolescent's return justified and the conditions for applying psychiatric assistance beyond his/her will are not met. However, solving this problem should not make the whole regulation more unclear than before. We are therefore planning to amend the draft by changing the wording of § 3 of the Act on psychiatric assistance. The amendment is made to § 3 (1) of the Act and the amendment provides psychiatric assistance at the person's own request or with his or her informed consent. The amendment is also made to § 3 (2) of the Act, according to which psychiatric assistance is provided to a person with reduced capacity with the consent of his own or his legal representative, in accordance with § 766 (4) of the Law of Obligations Act. A health care provider may provide psychiatric assistance to an incapacitated person without the consent of a legal representative where the legal representative has committed a criminal offence against a person who is incapacitated or for any other valid reason. In accordance with § 766 (4) of the Law of Obligations Act, the rights referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 of [§ 766] apply to the legal representative of the patient in so far as the patient is unable to consider the pros and cons in a responsible manner. If the decision of the legal representative is manifestly detrimental to the patient's interests, the healthcare provider may not comply with it. The patient must be informed of the facts and decisions referred to in paragraph 1 [§ 766] to a reasonable extent. A minor with discretion must be given the opportunity to decide independently on matters relating to his or her own health. In a situation where a legal representative has committed a criminal offence against a person with reduced capacity, it is essential to give the health care provider the right to provide psychiatric assistance to the person against whom the offence has been committed, regardless of the consent of the legal representative. It may be difficult to obtain consent in such a situation and the treatment will not be available to the person in need. Paragraph 3 (3) is also amended, according to which the health care provider is obliged to include a legal representative of a disabled person. If, for serious reasons, the incapacitated person does not agree to include his or her legal representative, the health care provider shall be subject to the consent of the person himself or herself when providing psychiatric assistance. An effective reason shall be deemed to be the absence of parental care of a person who has become aware of a criminal offence committed by a legal representative against a person with reduced legal capacity, or any other threat to the life or health of a person with reduced capacity, which the health care provider is obliged to immediately inform the relevant authorities. The solution proposed by [the bill] excludes a situation in which a person in need of assistance may be deprived of treatment on the grounds that the legal representative has presented a risk to the health or life of a person with reduced capacity and is not interested in obtaining assistance from a person with reduced capacity. An addition is also made to Article 3 (4) [to be included in the Act], according to which the treatment of a person with a mental disorder without his or her consent is permitted only in the cases provided for in paragraphs 11 and 17 of that Act. There are no proposed implementing acts to implement the draft and the law enters into force in general. On 19 January 2021, the Centre Party Group submitted a declaration of withdrawal from this draft and on 5 February 2021, the Fatherland Group also submitted a statement of withdrawal. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U881	Thank you very much. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U882	I'm done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U883	However, there has also been one question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U884	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Why don't you make a little bit of a conclusion like that? We were here a while ago discussing another identical bill that extended the circle of beneficiaries, I would say, even relatively arbitraryly. How do you assess our bill in the light of which one is really [useful]? We're not leaving anyone behind. Our bill does not deprive anyone of help, as the opponents claim, has always claimed in our case. Would our draft be quite sufficient to resolve the problems that are now being highlighted by the increase in the number of youth suicides and mental disorders associated with COVID? Would this bill help in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U885	Thank you for your question. First of all, I must stress that if there are any mental problems or instability, the first thing that makes sense is to go to a psychologist, a therapist or a counselor. There are many of these options. Contacting a psychiatrist is only necessary if it has been established that a young person needs specific treatment. The main activity of a psychiatrist is still healing. But the advantage of our draft is that if we have problems today precisely those young people who, for example, have been sexually abused by a parent or who have been left without parental care, this bill will guarantee these children the opportunity to address a psychiatrist without the consent of the parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U886	Kalle Grünthal, do you have a procedural question? You have a procedural finger upstairs. Or would you like to ask [the rapporteur] something? In that case, the Anti Division will ask first and then Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U887	Good vice chairman! Honourable waitress! Let me ask you some legal examples to illustrate the case. Today I read how an apartment in Tallinn's Old Town was left flat and hunted by both the city of Tallinn and quite random people and relatives. [It was about] one childless old gentleman, it was an inheritance, but apparently the gentleman wasn't okay with his psyche either. Is there an example of how treatment options may be abused?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U888	Thank you for your question. I'm thinking about the treatment options... We're talking about minors right now. Our draft concerns, above all, minors, or young people, who have mental health problems for whatever reason. I'm sure they need help, but we don't think parents should be left out of this procedure. The previous bill, Bill 115, allows all minors to see a psychiatrist. But this means that the consequences are being dealt with and the family is completely excluded from the child's problems, although in many of the problems the family has a very important role to play in supporting. We also had a debate in the Commission. For example, a representative of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice pointed out that if a mother and father are always fighting in the family, the child must be treated with a psychiatrist. That's what I'd say. If the baby goes to a psychiatrist now and gets these medications, it won't stop Mom and Dad from fighting. This kid's going back to the exact same environment, except that he's eating pills now. There is also a risk for children when parents do not know about, for example, teenage children, that the child has been to a psychiatrist on his or her own initiative and has been given medications, behind his or her parents' back, and parents do not have any idea whether the child is following the treatment scheme properly and does not use these medicines to harm themselves, for example. If there is a child with suicidal tendencies, we know that antidepressants may increase symptoms during the first two weeks, or the risk of suicide increases. If the parent does not know that the child is in possession of such medications, or practically tools to carry out his or her intention, then the parent must ultimately also take responsibility, but the child has already suffered harm. We therefore believe that it is reasonable to apply specific provisions in such problematic situations, for example, when it comes to the sexual violence of a parent or when a child is left without parental care. Then it is reasonable to apply specific provisions that allow these children to go to a psychiatrist without the consent of the parent, if necessary, without his or her knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U889	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U890	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I know you've been working in investigative bodies and exposed to children's psychiatric problems. I have this request: could you, according to your practice, describe the problems that you have had to solve, perhaps extremely tragic? This is the first part of my question. And the other part of the question is: can you or do you know what can be done not to solve this problem, but to solve the cause of the problem? Tell me a little bit more so that everyone understands.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U891	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I've really had to go to a lot of crime scenes working for the criminal police, where a minor has taken his own life. As far as is known, in such cases, in the case of a minor, an investigation must be carried out in order to establish the reasons. For example, in the case of a young girl, 17 years old, the reason for taking her own life was the fact that the family doctor felt that she no longer needed to take antidepressants, that she was healthy, that she had recovered, and that more antidepressants were not prescribed for her. It was finally the trigger why a girl took her own life. And for example, a 16-year-old young man took his own life for unhappy, unrequited love. This shows that, in fact, these situations and problems are such that they can be resolved well with their parents, using parental support, not just medication. These problems, such as unhappy love, are not solved by medication. And in this first case, it was the drugs that caused this situation. As a general rule, the problems of young people are perhaps superficial for an adult person, not very serious, but for the most part they are still caused, for example, by bullying at school, be they teachers or fellow students. These problems arise from relationships with peers, and often because too much demands are placed on themselves, such as dealing with lessons, and from bullying online. These are problems that a child cannot solve alone and certainly will not be solved by any medication. I stress once again that it is the psychiatrist who deals with the treatment. Other problems are dealt with by psychotherapists, clinical psychologists, experience counselors, advice phones. In solving these situations and identifying the root cause, it is very important that the whole family is part of it. For example, when it comes to bullying at school, it is very important that the family is aware of it, that the family support their child, talk to him, and that they go through family therapy together, whatever the reason. But drugs are definitely not the answer. On the contrary, there are many sad examples. Even now, drug addiction occurs very easily. Psychiatrics do not prescribe headache medications, but they prescribe antidepressants or strong sedatives, which are drugs that are really addictive and which [young people] can do business with. I'm not saying that all children do it, but we can't deny that there are young people who do it. It's inevitable. It has been pointed out here as a counter argument that if other doctors have access to young people, such as gynecologists, a young girl can go nicely without parental consent, why doesn't she get a psychiatrist? I highly doubt that a gynecologist prescribes powerful sedatives or that, for example, anti-baby pills have the same effect as strong sedatives. In my opinion, they are not comparable. I hope I gave you a long enough answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U892	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U893	Thank you. I will add to the previous answer that it is not normal for minors to go to a gynecologist without the knowledge of their parents, because it often results in abortion, but a young person is not really prepared for such a decision. Our main problem, both with regard to this and with regard to the previous draft, was a contradiction on a very fundamental issue; it is the constitutional right of parents to decide on the raising of their children. It was always said that if the child is difficult and the parents are bad, how do we deal with the situation? This is the situation we solved by this law. I think the argument that has been made here that we do not want to help children or that we do not care about them by sticking to some kind of theoretical principle, parents' rights, is vile and deceitful. It is precisely to solve this complex equation that we have developed today's draft, which also provides a solution for children whose parents do not care about them. But because of these few children, we cannot deprive most parents of their parental rights. I'm gonna ask you to explain this principle a little bit more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U894	Thank you. It's all right, I'll overdo it. Indeed, according to the law, the parent is responsible for the child. The role of a parent is to be of every support to his or her child and to direct him or her properly. The parent is precisely the adult whom the child should be able to trust and who really wants the best for his or her child. When a child starts to make decisions on his or her own, it has been stressed that the child is capable of taking decisions on his or her own procedures and treatments, I dare seriously doubt that. I also dare to doubt that, for example, an eight- or ten-year-old child is able to think about going to a psychiatrist at all. Well, someone's gonna have to start introducing him. A grown man doesn't know the difference between a psychologist and a psychiatrist or a therapist, much less a child. Therefore, such matters should, in particular, be organised in cooperation with the family. A parent has the right to know what is recommended and spoken about in a child's psychiatrist. Some kind of control a parent must have over a child. It is also important that children are children, that there are different children, that there are children who may start to abuse the possibility of turning to a psychiatrist on their own behind the parent's back and thus getting a diagnosis of depression, so that they can then avoid, for example, the obligation to attend school. The total number of such children last year was 2711 for whom these problems arose. It is very important to define this matter, all the more so as, really, no matter what happens, the parent ultimately has to take responsibility for his child. The child is happy, protected and kept only in a secure and strong family, where the parents participate in the child's life. I hope I've been able to clarify all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U895	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U896	Thank you. This last bill that the Liberals rammed is a criminal bill. This is a criminal bill based on a completely sick view of society, just as a society is made up of such family communities, partnerships where everyone is bad, where everyone hates each other, where everyone behind each other is sussing, where children secretly have to go to a doctor, where children secretly have to make no decisions without their parents knowing, because parents are evil, bad, and abuse their children. This is an absolutely perverse approach. This draft, which we are currently discussing, is the opposite. This bill deals with people and families and family associations as safe places, as places where everyone helps each other and where everyone puts each other on the back of each other's problems. And there's a fundamental difference. I'd like you to stress that difference again, Kert.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U897	Thank you for your question. I will try to emphasise once again the difference between the two drafts. I will start with the arguments that this previous bill was defended. For example, if the child has anorexia and the parent does not want to understand the problem, the child still needs help. Let's start with the drugs don't cure anorexia. In the case of anorexia, it is necessary to address the cause of the disease. And to heal it, of course, the whole family needs to work together, because the child lives at home. Family needs to know these problems, family can help, guide, and monitor. It is not possible for a child to go to a doctor alone and only communicate with a doctor because he or she goes back to his or her home environment every day. The family also has a huge role to play as a support function for a young person, because we are still talking about minors and the minor is not only 16 years old but also six years old in life. The family has a very important role to play in keeping the child on the right track and providing support in every way, since every night the child goes back to his home. The point of our draft is, however, that if, by chance, the problems are such that parents or foster parents, where the child is staying every night, behave in a manner that endangers or harms the health of the child or that the child has been neglected at all, there are special provisions for such cases. But generally, in my opinion, it is absolutely impossible for a child to go to a doctor on his own, a stranger who is about to prescribe a cure for him. Why do you need to treat now? After all, the mental health of young people is usually disturbed by problems or reasons that can be largely solved by therapy. A survey was recently carried out among young people on how happy Estonian children are compared to children from other countries, and this survey produced a good result. Our young people are happier than average, more satisfied than average. Consequently, the argument that all children now need to go to a psychiatrist without their parents knowing is not true. And surely the child does not have to go to a psychiatrist first, but he can start with therapists or, as I have previously read, with all these other authorities and specialists and do so with his parents. Because solving all school-related problems can only happen with parents. A child alone doesn't cure himself because he's with his parents every night and every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U898	Kalle Grünthal, is this a procedural question? Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U899	Thank you, Mr President. I have such a request that if we go to the next questioner now via the TV bridge, it would be possible to do so before the next questioner starts asking, the tabloids[from which you can see] will also show when the queue will reach [the other questioners] in order to be able to prepare itself accurately. It's just a request to know when the line gets to someone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U900	We are aware of [this problem], such a question has also been the case for other members of the Riigikogu... [[Kert Kingo will talk.]] Kert, wait, it was a procedural question... We know that question. We will see how this can be technically resolved, but basically, when the President of the sitting has the floor again, that order is visible. But then I'm going to read the queue so that those who only take part on the web can know it. Next, Helle-Moonika Helme, then Raimond Kaljulaid and then Tarmo Kruusimäe. Now, please, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U901	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Kert! I have already dealt with this issue in the course of the previous draft law, and this is actually an important issue. This was important for the previous draft, and it is still important for the time being. Whatever laws we make to get better, faster and more effective help from a specialist, we still have to take into account that there are enough specialists. Right now we're in a situation where we know there aren't enough psychiatrists, psychiatric appointments are full, the queues are very long. The waitress of the previous bill, Dr. Hele Everaus, whom I respect very much, tried, as it were, to say, but the psychiatrist is the one that the child must go to and talk to, but I still see that the psychiatrist is no longer such a conversational partner. The current procedure provides that the child first goes to a psychiatrist, the psychiatrist talks to him, he also does tests with him, they have their own specific tests, and the child goes to a [psychologist] with them. It's "direction," it goes through a family doctor, if there's a chance...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U902	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U903	In this sense, it is [the previous bill] somehow like marching through an open door and there is no more room in this open room. For a moment, as the rapporteur said in the previous draft, there was such an expression that there is an inborn gender identity, which is the cause of [the problem] and which parents cannot recognize, and that is now why a child should be able to go straight to a psychiatrist. I totally agree that these children exist and...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U904	Dear Helle-Moonika Helme, you've been gone a whole minute. Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U905	I'm sorry! I'm almost done. How do you feel about the fact that, for the sake of the few children who have such a problem, I admit that there are such ones, we need to start making such a radical change to the law? I think we could also solve this problem with the bill that we are proposing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U906	Thank you for your question. This is precisely because of the very small part of children who really may have problems with their sex or living in the wrong body, as it is very proud to say now, there is no need to open doors to all children. All the more so if we can't... [[The connection's breaking up.]] These would be part of the special cases. And then therapists or psychologists will determine whether this child really has a serious problem and that it is not a momentary emotion or a fashion trend that is also very common as a result of growing difficulties. Anyone can identify it, be they psychotherapists, clinical psychologists, or experience counselors. This [to be determined] during therapy, which should be the first stage. And as a second step, when such things are identified, the child can be referred to a psychiatrist for treatment • if it is necessary and well-founded. In fact, the first thing you need to talk about is to solve your problems and look for their root causes, but it is still normal and normal to approach psychologists, therapists or counselors. And if it turns out that the problem is deeper and medically intervention is needed, or treatment is prescribed, then direction could come. But I still think that in most cases it must be in harmony with parents. It is absolutely unthinkable for a child to go through all of this alone, to make decisions alone. A stranger, no matter how big a specialist this psychiatrist, psychologist or whoever he is, will never know the child as well as his parents do. He does not know his everyday habits, personality traits, or behavioral characteristics. I'm sure he can't decide how judgmental that child is. I really can't imagine a 10- or 9-year-old child or even a 12-year-old child being able to make their own decisions about their own procedures and treatments. I note that there was a debate in the Committee on Social Affairs on both drafts. I asked repeatedly what the procedures the psychiatrist was doing. I still have not received an answer to this question, which procedures have been taken into account. I really can't imagine what these procedures could be, which a child should be able to decide independently. Our draft still stands out very clearly from this previous draft. We are not doing this simply for everyone and indiscriminately, but our draft provides for reasons when it is really important that we turn to [psychiatry] and when it is really a very complicated case that a child can go without a parent. As I have mentioned, these are cases where, for example, the child has been sexually abused or the child has been left without any parental care or has a parent in another country and the child needs to go somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U907	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U908	Thank you. First, a small remark for the previous speaker, Mart Helme. Somehow awfully fast the words of the EKRE Group's representatives, such as 'criminal', somebody else's behaviour is 'criminal'. This word has serious meaning, and it is a serious accusation to say that colleagues who have initiated the bill have some criminal intentions. I call for no such rhetoric. I think it is not constructive and does not contribute to good cooperation between the members of the Riigikogu. But I have a question for the waitress. You have made a number of strong statements on nutrition disorders and treatment of depression, and these have been quite detailed. You have worked, I understand, at the Police Department, at the Tax and Customs Board, here in the Riigikogu in the field of information technology. What is the basis of your knowledge on which you are making these claims regarding treatment issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U909	Thanks for asking. I'll explain for a while what a detective has to deal with. If there is a case involving a minor child, he or she has attempted suicide or committed criminal activity, then he or she will be made a psychiatric expert. A very thorough overview is given and the investigator's task is to examine it very thoroughly. In addition, the investigator also communicates with these doctors, both psychiatrists and family doctors, in order to get an accurate picture of the origin and mental status of the child. Believe me, these reviews are more comprehensive than the usual digital epic crises. When an expert's done, it's super-detailed, super-conscious. And it's not like I've only seen them once. First of all, I've been through a lot and a lot of them. Secondly, I have been in contact with young people who have behavioral disorders that are largely due to, say, mental health. It has all given practical experience. One thing is, if you only have a diploma, you're a doctor. However, the other thing is practical experience and there is no need for a medical diploma. I would also mention what you said at the beginning of your speech on the use of the word 'criminal'. I agree with Mardi because the previous bill, this 115, will cause a lot of problems if I look at it precisely from the perspective of a former criminal police officer. What negative effects can this have? How can it be exploited? What could be the consequences? As adults, we should not allow this to happen. And the saddest thing is that these things are done right here in the Riigikogu. The purpose of the law is to make a law that does not allow any other law to be broken. But bill 115 creates a real and beneficial opportunity to violate other laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U910	Mr. Grünthal, is this a procedural question? Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U911	Thank you, Mr President. I must congratulate you on the good management of the sitting, because when I asked for the list of questioners to be displayed, you said that technically it was a bit problematic, but you were very kind and approachable and said that you would read these persons in line. Now I have a request that you mention every time you give the floor to a new questioner that the launch will take place, for example, Kristina Šmigun and prepare yourself for this particular skier. Let's try to keep the same thing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U912	Thank you for your attention. Let's try to follow that suggestion. On the previous list, Tarmo Kruusimäe was named and Mart Helme and Martin Helme are waiting for a follow-up. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U913	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Kert! Well, let's say that I actually have it in my sleeve like that, so paint the world all black and white and say that in the meantime there are 50 shades of grey. But let me give you an example. A minor child lives with two male citizens who both call themselves mothers. This young man is trying to find out that you have a real problem, you have Y chromosomes and they're redundant, and then, when you get 16, we're gonna give you a sex change operation because we've been waiting our whole life for a daughter. This brain drain has been going on for years, and we still think that the two bearded mothers he has are his spokespersons, so he cannot go and get psychiatric help.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U914	On the contrary, it is precisely that he has the opportunity to receive psychiatric assistance, because if you read this bill, it is nicely pointed out that if a child, a minor, presents a threat to his life or health, also mental health, it is a good reason. That is what these specific provisions are for. This is a real example of her not being able to tell her parents that this is how they act. And that's it. He's going to a shrink or a therapist who can identify the problem and, if necessary, direct him to a psychiatrist. It is obvious that the problem is caused by parents and cannot be included because their views differ from those of the child. In this extreme example, this child basically lives as if it were a mental terror. Our bill provides for helping such a child, and he does not receive parental care.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U915	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U916	I cannot remain silent when a person much younger than me comes to teach me how to live and comes to question my life experience. Dear Raimond, I have raised six children. Dear Raimond, I have nine grandchildren. Dear Raimond, I have a great experience in life and leadership. If I say it's a criminal bill, it's a criminal bill against children. And he's a criminal with children because he puts children in a vulnerable position. He puts young people who have not yet gained experience in life in a position where they have to make decisions for their own future that they may never be able to reverse. And it's criminal. If you don't understand it as a young person, maybe I've managed to explain it to you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U917	Let's take that as a line. Or is there something Kert Kingo wants to answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U918	Okay, I'll try to answer that then.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U919	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U920	I, yes, at times, in the same way, support Mardi's view that precisely when there is a child who is completely inexperienced and has mental problems, it is entirely natural that they will be discussed. And I stress once again that these problems are very often the result of school and relationships with peers. They need to be discussed with family members who can, if necessary, support the child, who can observe what is happening at school, who can go to school and then start solving the problem, [for example, find out] who the bully is, whether he is a child or, worse, a teacher. That can't be solved by a psychiatrist. These are the main things that cause children's mental health to suffer. In addition, I would certainly note that we have a very large network of specialists: we have child protection workers, we have social workers, we have teachers, we have shelters. It is up to all of them to make sure that the children are well - cared about; it is up to all of them to see if there is anything to worry about. Since we have such a large support network, I wonder why a child should immediately be able to contact a psychiatrist when it is likely to be a problem solved in many ways by therapy. So why do we have this big network? What are they doing? I hope I've broadened Mardi's mind a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U921	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U922	Thank you. I, too, will react to Raimond Kaljulaid ad hominem's attack. I always liked it in politics when we fight over ideas and worldview rather than get personal, questioning people's motives and personal experience. Similarly, one might ask: where does this experience come from people who submit drafts on the regularisation of homosexual marriages or propose amendments in the proceedings of the Riigikogu on sex with 12-year-olds? Where does this experience come from? Kert has talked about his experience, but as far as I know, specialists in the field have been involved in the procedure of both this previous draft and our current draft. Finally, members of the Riigikogu who are involved in lawmaking would be very bad if we were all to deal with lawmaking, which only concerns us personally and only within the limits of our own experience. Well, in that case, we're in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U923	I'd like to clarify Martin's story. I myself asked the Social Affairs Committee to involve a senior investigator in the child protection group, whose daily work is to investigate crimes against abused children. There must be a very broad psychological background to detect the behavior of these children. With him we have discussed this draft, both our current draft and draft 115. I dare to convey his words, which he also tried to say in the Committee on Social Affairs, even though he was not given the floor. He agrees that the indiscriminate admission of all children directly to a psychiatrist does not make any sense, and it may lead to more sad consequences than to resolve the current situation. He very much supported our vision of applying special provisions. He said that these were really the things that would help solve the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U924	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U925	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! After all, it is known that according to the General Part of the Civil Code, the child is a disabled person and his or her legal representative is a parent or guardian appointed to do so. But the question is that I am of the opinion that if we give the child the opportunity to go alone to seek psychiatric assistance without the knowledge of the legal representative or without his or her consent, there may be a situation that a legal representative who should be in constant contact with the child and try to protect and develop him or her will be excluded from the whole process, i.e. he or she is not involved at the grassroots level, where he or she could provide child assistance as the first person. Is my thinking correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U926	Yeah, thanks! The point is very correct, because let's not forget that a minor child goes home every night. He lives at home, he does his day-to-day chores at home. He's going home for a change, at school, or at practice, or with friends, but he's going home tonight. Home is this place, the environment in which it must grow, where it spends a great deal of time, and therefore parents must be very well informed about his problems in order to support him if necessary. They should be the ones who can help the child recover. When the child's mental health is unbalanced, there are fluctuations, it is the parents and the rest of the family who can observe and support him at any moment. Of course, I still have a question about this when we are here with this draft 115 and our draft we have discussed just how children will even know that there is an occupation like a psychiatrist and that you can go to his reception. I assume that those who are doing this bill and who are very supportive of it and who have been in favour of it with two hands will be the people who are going to tell a 6-year-old boy, for example, that you have to go to a psychiatrist now. Kids certainly don't think about it, not all adults think about it. And then some stranger's uncle or aunt is gonna tell the kid that you have to go see a psychiatrist now or come to me now and we're gonna treat you. This is not a normal situation. The question arises as to what treatment will then be given, what will be explained to this child, and what is what a parent must not know? We're not talking about sexual exploitation here, we're not talking about cases like this, we're talking about it in general. What are the things that a psychiatrist has to treat in secret or do some sort of procedure so that a parent can't know about it? That's the question. And that is why it is quite rightly stated that the indiscriminate referral of all children to a psychiatrist may have criminal consequences. That is what is criminal with regard to children, because they are being exploited, and that is why only the specific provisions used in these specific cases are sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U927	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U928	Thank you to the President of the sitting and to the good waitress. First of all, a message to Mart Helme. I have had the honour of working with quite a number of politicians who are many times older than me and giving them advice, and they have done well when they have taken my advice. So you too can take my advice with courage. And indeed, I continue to think that such rhetoric, that the drafts submitted by other parties or the actions of other ambassadors are criminal, is, in my opinion, an extreme rhetoric that is of no use. I would like to ask the rapporteur, who has, as it turns out, considerable experience in this area, the following. After all, such extreme rhetoric has been observed to fuel tensions in society and aggravate mental health problems. Sometimes it leads to real violence. As a criminal investigator, you may know that, for example, the murder of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin resulted in his opponents using very powerful and extreme rhetoric against him, which encouraged one person to commit a serious personal crime and to shoot Prime Minister Rabin. Do you acknowledge, Mrs Kingo, that, in this mental health crisis today, the very extreme speeches of politicians, among other things, have a role to play? I'm sorry I'm out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U929	Thank you. We're talking about young people after all. We cannot talk here about our politicians, who are probably very interested in who talks. Believe me, young people don't follow politics that way. They don't care what they say. If you follow a little bit about what happens in the Tiktok environment between young people and how they communicate with each other, you'll understand... [[The connection's breaking, the sound's disappearing.]] On the contrary, young people become upset because they do not have the most beautiful or the most modern jacket or are not the most popular in the class or are unrequited love, the other half is not so interested. But politics is certainly not what causes depression or anxiety in young people. After all, it has been proven that young people do not look so deeply at things, that they have far more earthly problems. And in the end, I would still say that when I talk about my work, in the case of those young people I have seen and who, for example, when bad events coincide, have come to a criminal path or on the verge of doing so, it has always been about choices. There are people, young people who never make choices that are not disturbed, do not interfere with these things, and there are those who are only affected and need no reason. So in this respect, I cannot confirm that this rhetoric now has any impact on the mental health of young people, what we are talking about here in the Riigikogu about politics. I dare to doubt that very, very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U930	I understand that Mart Helme's name was named, and he wants a word as a reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U931	Yeah, thanks! I'd tell Raimond Kaljulaid it's just embarrassing to hear such fatherhood. And secondly, I've done well in my life without the advice of Raimond Kaljulaid. I'm very pleased with the way I've lived without his advice. And if anyone is talking about extremists, the extremists are sitting right in the Riigikogu...... there's a window... (No one can hear.). [[We're breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U932	Good Mart! The connection to you seems to be broken at the moment. But I would like to draw the attention of all my good colleagues to the fact that if there is a request for a reply, the place of reply will be during the negotiations. Please use the reply option at the right time. If there is a procedural question, you can ask, but in that case we will also limit ourselves to a procedural question. Jaak White is now asking Kert Kingo... [[Kert Kingo calls for something.]] Yeah, good Kert, Jaak's asking now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U933	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, On 14 December 2020, the Estonian Centre Party, together with the EKRE and the Isamaa Group, has presented this draft, which is now presented by the honourable Kert Kingo. But on 19 January 2021, the Estonian Centre Party Group has withdrawn from its initiation. My question is this: has something happened in the field this month that could justify such a change of mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U934	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, nothing catastrophic has definitely happened in this month that should have been withdrawn from this bill. I propose that this is about this, and I do not know how catastrophic it is, depends on how someone is going to experience a significant event, that there was simply a change of government partners and, therefore, probably a change of mindset and views. That's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U935	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U936	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am very pleased that we are discussing the subject and content, both with regard to this draft and with regard to the previous draft. And I am very pleased that the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs also took place on the basis of content and claims, not personal insults. I have a question about the examples you have given, which have very sadly ended, and your investigator experience in this area will certainly give a reason to respond. I don't think you blame those parents. Apparently, the child did not approach the parent because he and the parent would have been able to contact a psychiatrist if needed. In fact, the situation was that the child did not turn to the parent, and the situation ended very sadly. Just in line, I'll add that Bill 115 doesn't abolish any of the support systems that already exist in school psychologists, counselors, everything else. They're not going to be eliminated, they're all there. [This draft] is for exceptions only.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U937	Yeah, thanks! I would point out that, of course, I cannot blame my parents, but the point was that in one case, antidepressants specifically led to suicide. This young person was so obsessed with these antidepressants that despite the fact that the doctor said that he was now cured and did not need them anymore, and therefore he did not write them any more, the young person found that his life was now over. Of course, that happened before my parents got home from work. That is the signal: what traditional medicinal products prescribed by psychiatrists, whether antidepressants or strong sedatives, can cause, which are just as addictive. All antidepressants are not [physical] addictive, but they may lead to mental dependence on this feeling of well-being, this feeling of indifference, this occasional apathy. In this other case, I would also say that if the young man who decided to take his own life because of unhappy love had gone alone to a psychiatrist, how do you think that psychiatrist would have helped him win that love? The pills wouldn't have made you love her in the other half. It is a matter of course if the parents had been with that young man. Then they would have figured out what the problem was, could have been able to get a job for a young person, help him to move his mind away, talk about his unhappy experiences and deal with the situation with the doctor. Now, if we were to assume that this young man would have gone to a psychiatrist alone, got his meds, went home, his parents didn't know anything, that wouldn't have been the solution. It wouldn't have made anything better, because the original problem would have remained.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U938	Kalle Grünthal, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U939	Yes, it is. Mr President, I would like to ask you to say the starting order as well. I didn't notice if you said the last time. If you did, of course I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U940	Now it's Leo Kunnas and then it's Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U941	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kert! I've been trying to understand the difference between these two drafts as a person who doesn't know the subject. And I've come to the point that Bill 115 gives psychiatrist access to basically all children, regardless of their age, theoretically from infants to 18 years of age. I'd understand if there was a clear age limit here, like since I was 14. In the case of the 303 Act, the reasons which give rise to the right to apply this exception are clearly defined, since this is still an exception: if a child is physically or psychologically abused, sexually abused. This draft defines it. Have I understood these drafts correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U942	Thank you. Good Leo, you are absolutely right to understand that Bill 115 gives children the opportunity to address a psychiatrist from birth to the age of 18 without their parents knowing and consenting. Perhaps, in principle, a kindergarten child who knows how to go from home to kindergarten and return could also go to a psychiatrist if, for example, a psychiatrist lives next door to him and if a teacher's aunt makes that possibility clear to him. Then he can march himself to a psychiatrist, and the parent may not know anything. However, it is precisely in exceptional cases that the 303 bill provides for the possibility for a minor to go to a psychiatrist without the consent of his or her parent. These are special provisions, they are situations when it is not possible to go with the parent, because the parent is the one who has done the harm to the child, we call it that, or it has harmed his or her health, or it has left the child entirely without parental care. These two special provisions are enough to help this group of children. They are the ones who need the most help in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U943	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U944	Thank you very much for your previous answer. From this answer, I realized that you have called into question [doctors' behaviour] as if doctors were very lightly prescribing medicines and psychiatrists did not always find it wise to involve a parent, another adult family member, a child protection worker or anyone else. Here's the question. Since your bill doesn't include age, but is as you have shown since birth, how, for example, does a three-year-old child know that a psychiatrist exists? How does this three-year-old abused child know that a psychiatrist exists to address him?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U945	Thank you for your question. I'd love to be specific. This is the assumption that, for example, when it comes to a three-year-old child, the first stage is this support group: kindergarten educators, perhaps a kindergarten therapist and social workers who are likely to immediately notice the differences in the behaviour of the child. There are certain signs of how a child will behave when he or she has been sexually abused at home, for example. And that's when he'll be transferred to a specialist until he's a psychiatrist. True, these therapies are completely different in the case of young children. The methodology for explaining circumstances is absolutely different, because physical abuse, including sexual abuse, is a crime. In order to identify and prove this, there are completely different rules than in normal therapy or in normal cases. That is why this sequence is clearly moving in such a way that, first, the kindergarten child, such as this three-year-old teacher, is obliged to notice it, then the psychologist who is in the kindergarten talks to the child, or the child protection officer, and that is where it moves forward until the child actually gets help. That's how these things should work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U946	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U947	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I still don't understand the blue-eyedness that all these specialists should notice. I remember from my personal experience in the juvenile committee, where school psychologists and everyone else were present, that there were still moments from time to time when some truth began to emerge at the end of the session. Rare cases were not when we asked parents to leave, and then we talked to the child. Did we at that moment exceed our authority to remove parents from this process? And what is it about knowing that all these other support professionals are competent, but the psychiatrist isn't competent to find that the child's soul is broken and he doesn't want to talk to anyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U948	Thank you. The question is very, very wrong. First of all, I haven't said that a psychiatrist isn't qualified. I just explained that the difference between a psychiatrist and a therapist is that he's the one who prescribes the treatment. The psychiatrist determines the pills, be they antidepressants or sedatives. His main role is to determine the treatment. Those specialists who talk before a psychiatrist talk about this is the same situation you said they'd talk about and figure out the reason. That's what therapists, psychologists, counselors, all kinds of advice phones do. I wonder if the only way out of here is to be a psychiatrist, why do we have all these other specialists, these foundations, the NGOs, who, day after day, are dealing with these young people and now, if there is a problem, it turns out that they really don't need them at all, they don't know anything, and they're not helping anything, as you said in your experience. What do we need them for, then? I have a question. I assume they're still working, they're beautifully furnished, they have skills, they have a role to play. That's why we have so many of them, and that's why we should use them. Let the psychiatrist really be the final stage when the role of other professionals has been fulfilled and it has been established that medical treatment is now needed. That's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U949	Alar Laneman, please! [[Silence.]] Good Alar, we can't hear you right now. [[Silence.]] Good Alar, we can't hear you right now. We're asking you to reconnect the device.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U950	How about now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U951	Now there's a microphone in it. See, it was worth pushing the button. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U952	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kert! This topic is extremely important and I would like to ask about this larger picture. Still, there is the danger that a dragonfly will be struck between children and parents by using light-handed solutions such as we saw in the previous decision. It's a threat, and I want to ask where it came from. We all know that a strong family, a trusting relationship between children and parents, is one of the main cornerstones of a strong society. Where did it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U953	Thank you for your question. As I mentioned in my speech on the previous draft law, it seems to me that the direction to push children away from their families as far as possible and to "support" them in their own right is simply ideology and political views. I don't see any real concern here. In the case of this previous draft, the point is that I do not really see any will to solve this problem, but simply to pursue an ideological vision or objective. Our bill is what solves real problems. I remember what was said in the beginning about why a bill that allows young people to go straight to a psychiatrist is needed. The reason was that [it is needed] when a young person, for example, has become stressed or has trouble with his parents. I'm still saying that stress doesn't mean you have to go to a psychiatrist, in which case a therapist or a psychologist is enough. And when young people have had a fight with their parents, it's exactly the same with psychologists and therapists. So, in my opinion, this is a pure ideology that is being driven and which is trying to give the impression that we are helping young people and we are very worried about them, even though their vision does not deal with the causes. They're trying to guide the ship so that they can only deal with the consequences and stun people's meds if we look at it in black and white.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U954	All right, Mart Võrguship and then Eduard Odines. First, Mart Võrguship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U955	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I don't have a question, but I do have an observation for a good colleague that repeatedly hit my ear. We have not had any kindergarten teachers in Estonia for more than 10 years. We have kindergarten teachers. I think it is important to note this and it is worth noting that we have kindergarten teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U956	Let us consider this as a reply and go to the question of Eduard Odines. Eduard, please, check the microphone. [[Silence.]] Eduard, we can't hear you right now. [[Silence.]] Now, try it. We still can't hear you. In that case, let's take the Oudekki Loone question first. Please, Eduard, shut down the system for a second and open it again. Then maybe you can get back on the line with the question. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U957	Thank you. I listened to this presentation, and, good Kert, I understand that you know the subject, but sometimes you get a picture of an emotional situation that isn't quite right. I remind you, when we look at mental health problems, the whole team still deals with the person. Very often, this team is built up according to a psychiatrist, but a psychiatrist alone cannot even help a depressed person. Yes, he appreciates the need for drugs, but he also appreciates the need for other therapies, whether a clinical psychologist or some other kind of therapist is needed, to whom a young person should be directed and how to put this team to work together. Unfortunately, at the moment in Estonia, our health care law considers only the doctor and nurse to be the provider of health care, so that a psychiatrist [as a doctor] is often, very often, needed for this team. Why do you object to making these teams so that there's a psychiatrist? If a person in distress finds a way to a psychiatrist, who is a doctor, why do you want to ban it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U958	Thank you. It is completely wrong and arbitrary emphasis that we want to ban it. We have never said that, nor have I ever said that. It's arbitrary. First of all, let me make this point. Secondly, that's what I'm always saying here, the team has to be. In the child's development, the most important team for him is the family who supports him. The next stage is psychologists, therapists and counselors. If then it is found that the problem is so deep that medical intervention is necessary, then the next stage is a psychiatrist, not the way you say it is, that first there is a psychiatrist and he starts looking for who these sponsors are and the rest of them. In that sense, it was completely mis-served. And I still stress that we have never objected to a young person receiving help. But it has to be done sensibly. Our bill provides for a special case where there is really every reason to go to a psychiatrist without a parent. With these special provisions, this possibility arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U959	Oudekki Loone, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U960	Thank you. Once again, it surprises me that you're presenting a psychiatrist like some monster who, when he gets the baby, he's stuffing his meds. Well, that's absolutely not right. When we deal with the treatment, it is sometimes very reasonable to build a team just so that the psychiatrist assesses how deep the problem is. He may find that medications do not need to be prescribed at all, he may find that one visit is enough, and he may direct the child to the right specialist. It's one of the typical methods. This may be exactly the method that a teenager trusts. He can certainly use other methods. But right now you're starting to think it would be as good as possible if the young people weren't in contact with psychiatrists. This is the side that I don't understand, and maybe you could explain it a little bit. In general, it is the case when you have noticed that psychiatrists always try to convince young people that they need to talk to their parents and that their family is important. The kind of thing that keeps them away from the family... what kind of evidence do you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U961	Thank you. Again, such an arbitrary assignment to our bill. We didn't say we had to keep anyone away from a psychiatrist. However, I have explained here for a very long time that if, for example, there are problems caused by communication with peers or contentions, really, young people may be very easily disturbed by this too, then there is no need to contact a psychiatrist. What you said here, Oudekki, that you can talk to a psychiatrist and he can identify the causes, it should be mostly the first activity of psychotherapists, psychologists and counselors, all the more so because we have a lot more of them than psychiatrists. The psychiatrist should be the one who diagnoses the child and prescribes the treatment because he or she has the right to do so. That's not a right for psychologists, it's not for counselors. And second, when we're talking about going to a kid's psychiatrist, first we can't talk about them... [[The sound's gone.]] The difference between psychologists and therapists is that they have the right to prescribe medicines. Hence, there must be a reason and a need for medication to go there. After all, the aim is primarily to provide children with a solution to the problem, to find out why the child's mental health is seriously unbalanced or saddened, and to start looking for a solution. But the solution cannot be just a psychiatrist, like you, who are very supportive of this second draft, are trying to make it clear. A psychiatrist is the end point where you can get medicine if nothing else helps. That's my point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U962	Eduard Odines, let's try again!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U963	I hope you can hear me now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U964	Yeah, that's nice to hear. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U965	That's great! I still come back to the question raised by my colleague, Mr Helmen, which has not been answered. There are always threats here that, on the basis of this previous bill, babies are now standing in line to see a psychiatrist. But your bill will in no way limit the age of children who have the right to seek a psychiatrist. The only difference between the two drafts is that in your draft the psychiatrist must involve the legal representative of the child, but in the case of this previous draft the psychiatrist may involve a legal representative. Please explain once again how your draft rule out the referral of infants to a psychiatrist, after which a legal representative will be involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U966	Thank you for your question. I would like to draw attention to the content of our draft. We have two special provisions. The first special provision provides that a minor can contact a psychiatrist without the consent of his or her parent, for example, if he or she has committed a criminal offence against him or her. In the case of a crime, it cannot be determined that, from that age, we call this act against a child a crime, and that is not the age we call it a crime. That's why there can be no age in our bill. It is very clear that [a child can turn to a psychiatrist] when a parent or guardian has committed a crime against a minor. That's the difference. 115 of the draft law does not contain such a condition. There, absolutely everyone can go to a psychiatrist right away, no matter what the reason. There's no limit, so a three-year-old can go to a psychiatrist nicely if he's a very, very smart and highly developed kid who knows who's a psychiatrist. That's the difference between our bill. The second provision is exactly the same. It can't be aged to lose parental care that we can't say that he's left out of parental care, but in the case of an 8-year-old, we can. You can't draw an age line here. Action and situation are important for our draft. In our draft, these are the specific cases, the situations taken into account and the specific provisions made accordingly, when the child has the right to seek psychiatrist advice without the consent of the parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U967	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U968	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kert! I'm sorry if I'm asking incompetent questions today, because I'm really not a specialist in this field. The Republic will soon be 30 years old and so far the legislator has not foreseen that we should give this right to children. What is the substance of the problem that both of these drafts are due to? I'm trying to understand that. How many children, such as in percentage or in number, who could need help under the conditions that we have discussed in both drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U969	Thank you very much for the detailed question. I am unfortunately indebted to how many of them are in percentage or in number. But if I remember correctly, that number wasn't really too big to be a disaster. I really cannot comment on anything other than the fact that the previous draft law repeatedly emphasised how the Chancellor of Justice found it to be contrary to the Law of Obligations Act and therefore needs to be amended. But I have read this section myself, and it seems to me that there is a great deal to do with interpretation. For this reason alone, open this door and let everyone go straight to the psychiatrist, so that the parents stay behind[, it doesn't seem right]. Parents only have to take responsibility for their children, but they do not have the right to participate in their children's lives, to find out about their children's problems, because otherwise the constitutional protection of children is violated and they do not have the right to decide for themselves. I don't agree with that. It seems to me that this has been arbitrarily dragged into the wrong context. If you remember, Leo, the Chancellor of Justice came to our group to discuss this issue and pointed out the issues that might arise. The Chancellor of Justice said then that special provisions should be made if possible. But now they're saying something different. Each medal has two sides. Yeah, everything can be very beautiful, and we can talk about all the kids being angels and very good. But we also have to take into account that we cannot make a law that creates a good chance of breaking another law. Young people are young, and there are many different kinds. After all, in my practical work, I have seen the other half of young people who, unfortunately, are also young, we want it or do not want it. We have to consider everything. The difference between the two drafts is that we are seeing a solution for those young people who really have a serious problem, for whom it is very justified to leave [parents] aside, and it is impossible to involve parents. We will make special provisions for them. Unfortunately, this previous bill, yes, I still have not understood what these arguments are. There are no meaningful arguments put forward as to why everyone should be able to march indiscriminately to a psychiatrist since kindergarten. I hope I explained it clearly enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U970	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U971	Thank you. I have the feeling throughout this debate that we are still on the previous draft, because the rapporteur is always talking not about his own draft, but about another draft. I'm completely confused with the understanding they're talking about. And I still don't understand how one bill allows babies to turn and the other bill doesn't. And another issue that the honourable Kert Kingo is always telling us about is that their draft will create the conditions for previous sequences of paths that all children could go through before they go to a psychiatrist. I don't count those paths or other options from this bill. This particular bill says that the child has the opportunity to contact a psychiatrist with his or her consent. I don't see any problems here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U972	Thank you for your question. I am trying politely to say that I have the feeling that you have not read our draft and that is why you are asking such inappropriate questions. Our draft does not create any network or expand this network. There are two specific provisions in our draft, which we want to amend the current paragraphs of § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act in order to resolve the situation of children who have been subjected to a crime, such as sexual abuse, or whose parents, for example, are at work in Finland and the children are left without parental care, they live on their own. It must be ensured that these children are able to seek psychiatric advice without parents being involved when necessary if their mental health is seriously affected and they are found to be in need of a psychiatrist. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U973	Good waitress, there are no more questions for you. We now also have the opportunity to hear the position of the commission, which is presented by Mr Luck Pillak, Member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U974	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the amendment of § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act, including on 15 February. All members of the Commission took part in the meeting and a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was invited to discuss the draft. Several organisations in this field have expressed their views on the draft, among others, the NGO Child Welfare Association, the Estonian Psychiatric Society, the Estonian Youth Mental Health Movement and the main issues of NGO. The opinions on the draft did not support this. On 28 February the Government of the Republic decided not to issue an opinion on this draft. Having heard all the parties and taking into account the views expressed, the Committee on Social Affairs took the following decisions: Firstly, by consensus, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda, including by 10 March. Secondly, propose that the draft be rejected. There were 8 members of the Commission in favour of this proposal and 1 member of the Commission against it. Thirdly, by consensus, it was decided to appoint me, the Luck Hill, as the representative of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U975	Good waitress, no questions for you. Kalle Grünthal, I recall that every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask two questions. So there are no questions, and we can go to the negotiations. Mr Helme, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that two questions can be asked on one item on the agenda. Maybe once again, let's go to the negotiations. Mr Jufereva-Skuratovski has been the first to ask for the floor on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U976	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U977	Please, three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U978	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we are dealing with two proposals at once, which are essentially dealing with the same problem. In particular, how to ensure access to psychiatric assistance for a person with reduced capacity. It is important that the current procedure, where a sufficiently mature and considerable young person under 18 is unable to obtain psychiatric assistance without the consent of his or her legal representative or the permission of the court, needs to be changed in line with the needs of our accelerating life. Children's mental health problems are a major concern in Estonia. Already in pre-Corona, 2019, according to the National Institute for Health Development, 9122 young people under 15 years of age attended psychiatric visits due to mental and behavioural disorders. At present, the number of children and young people up to 19 years of age in need of psychiatric assistance is boldly above 10,000 per year. It is difficult to estimate how much this would be if all those in need had access to a psychiatrist regardless of the consent of the parent. Clearly, distance learning does not only lead to new experiences but can also cause mental and emotional tension, anxiety, and even suicidal thoughts. On average, 30 suicide attempts have been recorded among children in Estonia during the year, but this year there were 20 attempts in the first two months. Of course, when a young person suffers from mental disorders or other health problems, this is a family problem. Specialists claim that the support of parents or close relatives is very important during psychiatric treatment. In case of close support, the treatment is faster and more effective. It is difficult to deal with your concerns alone even in an adult person, let alone in children. But even in the case of caring and understanding parents, the child may have some disorder and wants to solve the problem without the parents knowing about it. But once again, it is always better for a child to have support from loved ones who are willing to share his or her concerns. Unfortunately, not all parents are best friends and supporters of their child. Children and women, in particular, are victims of domestic violence. Such children and teenagers must also be able to seek help from outside their home. If a child's mental illness is due to mistreatment by family members or to loss of parental care, both child protection and the police should be informed. We also consider it necessary for people to be taught to notice and inform children who need help. The Estonian Youth Association considers that if the doctor considers the minor to be mature and considerable enough to give informed consent, the young person must have access to psychiatric assistance even without the consent of the legal representative. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities provide that every person has the right to high-quality and accessible healthcare. This right also extends to persons with reduced capacity. To enable a person to exercise his or her right to health protection, he or she must be able to decide which health services are provided to him or her. Professional psychiatrists work in Estonia and can be fully trusted. But the problem is, unfortunately, we don't have a lot of specialists in this area, and people have to wait several months before they get to a free reception. Thanks to the initiative of Oudekki Loone, member of the Estonian Centre Party, it was possible to direct additional money to the training of clinical psychologists in the course of last year's budget. This will help to alleviate the problem of access to doctors. The Estonian Centre Party advocates the availability of psychological and psychiatric assistance to all people, regardless of their age, gender and financial means, within a reasonable period of time. At present, psychiatrists are the only specialised doctors to whom parents under the age of 18 must have written consent. This requirement applies since 1997 when the Riigikogu passed the law on psychiatric assistance. The Estonian Centre Party welcomes the fact that a long debate on whether a young person who is mature enough to become aware of his or her problem, address a psychiatrist and undergo treatment will reach real results. The Riigikogu will proceed with a single draft, which is a good compromise in the current situation and which takes into account all the necessary proposals and recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U979	The political groups have no further wish to speak. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 303 at first reading, which means that we must vote on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a vote before you to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U980	70 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of rejecting the draft and 16 were against, with no abstentions. That means the bill has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U981	On our agenda today, item No 9 is the number 328 of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (right of appeal for the judgment of visas). This is introduced by the Government of the Republic by the Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U982	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to stand before the honourable Riigikogu and introduce you to the draft law on the amendment of the Aliens Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 8 February. The purpose of the amendment is to provide persons with the necessary legal protection to challenge decisions on visas. The amendment is intended to achieve a situation in which an alien may also appeal to the court after the appeal procedure against a decision refusing a visa, withdrawing a visa, withdrawing a visa, refusing to extend a stay and terminating an early stay. The need to draw up the draft act follows from the judgment of the Court of Justice of 13 December 2017. In particular, the Court found that European Union law obliges the Member States to ensure, in the proceedings against decisions refusing a visa, that those decisions can also be challenged before the courts. This has not been possible so far by Estonia and infringement proceedings have also been opened against Estonia. According to the law currently in force, Estonian law only provides for a two-step internal procedure. Due to the regulation of contesting the decision, an alien can first submit an application to the authority that made the decision, such as the Estonian Foreign Office or the Police and Border Guard Board, and then to the Ministry at the next or second degree. Whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Internal Affairs then checks the formal and substantive legality of decisions according to their respective competences. According to the new draft, following the appeal procedure, an alien has the right to apply to the court and the court proceedings are of a three-step nature. The court shall check compliance with the procedural requirements of the administrative body and the conformity of the appeal with the formal requirements, as well as the substantive legality of the decision. In this context, it is important to note that, for the purposes of the compactness, legal clarity and uniform procedure of the regulation, the right of appeal for decisions on visas has been extended, i.e. it also applies to short-stay visas known as more than a C visa or Schengen visa, as well as to long-stay visas, i.e. a D visa or a visa issued by a Member State. It is certainly important to emphasise two other aspects. Firstly, the lodging of a complaint or the organisation of a hearing before a court for the purpose of examining a complaint does not entitle an alien to stay or arrive. Secondly, the facts and reasons on which the decision is based will not continue to be disclosed to the applicant, but will only become known to him on the legal basis of the decision. The target group for the amendment is aliens who submit an objection to a decision refusing a visa, withdrawing a visa, withdrawing a visa, refusing to extend a stay and terminating an early stay. Approximately 100 to 200 such foreigners a year. In 2019, 259 appeals were lodged at first instance, of which 76 were satisfied. Of the 183 rejected disputes, 15 foreigners filed an objection to the second step. In 2020, 184 appeals were lodged, of which 26 were satisfied in the first instance and 21 were challenged in the second instance, of which six were satisfied. At present, it is not possible to assess exactly how many could then proceed to court. Based on the statistics of the previous years, we can see that the expected number of legal proceedings may increase slightly in the extension of the possibilities of appeal. Thank you for listening. I look forward to your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U983	There are questions. Starts with Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U984	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! Yes, this is one of the laws that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia would not have sent from government to the Riigikogu. We opposed it in principle because it undermines the sovereignty of the country to decide who may or may not be present on its territory. Of course, we know that the European directive requires us to do such a thing, but Estonia's sovereignty is more important than the European directives. You brought out numbers here, a few hundred people about a year who challenge these things. In principle, it could also be said to Europe that we have a mechanism in which people can have this dispute with the Estonian state. Even if the Commission is not satisfied with this, it must simply be said that it is our sovereign right and we will pay the fine. Did the government consider this option?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U985	Thank you for your question. The role of the Court of Justice in cases is to interpret European Union law and the interpretation given is binding on all Member States in the organisation of European Union law. The Court of Justice has held that Union law obliges a Member State to provide for a procedure for contesting decisions refusing a Schengen visa, which must, at a certain stage of the procedure, ensure that those decisions can be challenged before a court. Thus, once the Court of Justice has issued such a legally binding decision, it has become a part of European Union law and Estonia must implement the decision as part of the European Union. That is, in short, my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U986	Mart Helme, please! Now, we're trying to get back in touch with Mart Helme. Mart, we can't hear you right now, so we'll get you back in line once we've got a technical connection with you. Until then, Kalle Grünthal will ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U987	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, the Constitution of Estonia also states the right of the state to decide certain matters independently. With this draft, I think you are going against the Treaty of Lisbon, the Reform Treaty, which gave Estonia certain rights to the European Union. Since we still have the Treaty of Lisbon as the basis, please state the points of the Treaty of Lisbon which give the European Union the right to decide on this matter. Please state the exact points because you have already included this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U988	Yes, thank you for your question. I don't know how to tell you these points right now, but I can send them to you later. But I will continue to say this, as I answered the previous question, that the interpretation and interpretation of European law are binding on all Member States, and that is why we have decided that we will bring it into our own law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U989	Mart Helme, a procedural question, please? Mart Helme can't hear, can't see. We're moving on now. There's more questioners here. I hope we can get in touch with Mart Helme, too, and he can ask nicely. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U990	Thank you, Mr President. We are now once again in a situation where difficulties have arisen in getting on the line, so-called direct connection. Perhaps it would be possible, let's say, to check whether everyone has access to the Internet. I find it very difficult to float somewhere at sea and survive by the boat that leaks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U991	Thank you. I think it makes more sense for us to go ahead with the questions. Technical personnel are currently dealing with the problem on a rolling basis, this information has been passed on and is trying to get in touch. So I'm sure we'll give all the questioners a chance. We're moving on right now. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U992	Good manager! Good minister! Mart Helme still sees and hears, but just the means of communication do not allow [to participate]. But yes, this is really about interfering with sovereignty. Open up some background. The 200 in a year that protests are divided between many things here: essentially the refusal or revocation or extension of a visa or early cancellation. How do they divide, which mainly disturbs these foreigners? And the second question: who are they mostly, the 200? Who makes up the bulk of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U993	Thank you. I can't tell you the nations. In statistics, we have summarised all the appeals procedures, so we are talking statistically about both first-degree appeals and second-degree appeals. And when I speak numerically, let's take, for example, the first and second stage appeal procedure in 2019, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at first instance, i.e. 229 appeals were submitted to the foreign representation, 66 of them were satisfied and 163 were not satisfied. Of these, nine were presented to the second step, three were satisfied, six were not satisfied. In general, the second stage of the appeal procedure in the system in force today is quite limited. Statistics from other countries also show that up to 0.1% of all negative visa decisions are complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U994	Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U995	Yeah, thanks! I just want to inform you that we're dealing with Mart Helme's microphone problem. It'll be a while, but I hope he'll be back on the air soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U996	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U997	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also have certain problems with the legal side of this law. In my opinion, this violates the principle of subsidiarity in the European Union. But there are even more important things than what I just said. To put it harshly, all laws can be divided into two: useful and harmful. I do not see any points, any ideas that would benefit Estonia by adopting this law. But I can see the cons, they're completely obvious. The judicial system is currently overloaded in Estonia. If there's an extra job, it won't fix it. And another [problem] is that it can be used against the Republic of Estonia by one of our neighbours, who can send people who are subject to some kind of sanctions and then we have to resolve these matters in court. I would like to point out that this neighbour of ours has no such obligation to the citizens of Estonia and, at all, to the citizens of the European Union. So I would like substantive reasons why this is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U998	Thank you for your question. When we joined the European Union, we made a commitment. And in this case, once again, when the European Court of Justice has established legal practice, Estonia is obliged to implement it in its own judicial area. This second example, which concerns someone from another country in terms of sending someone here, is not possible in itself. I give such a concrete example that if this person is currently on some legal basis in the Republic of Estonia and now he or she is in a situation where he or she wants to obtain an extension of the visa, he or she will have an expiry date, and, for example, the Estonian state refuses to extend it or withdraws his or her visa, he or she must not remain in the Estonian state for the duration of this court proceedings or for the duration of the appeal procedure. In any case, he must leave Estonia. In the same way, if he has filed it at a foreign agency to obtain a visa for coming to Estonia, for example, the foreign agency does not give it to him, he is filing an appeal, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for example does not satisfy it, he is suing the court, he is still not allowed to enter the country of Estonia during the appeal procedure or during court proceedings. So in that sense, this danger, I assure you, is not here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U999	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1000	Honourable President! Minister, thank you very much. The current practice of issuing visas will fundamentally change with this draft, as obtaining a visa will now become basically the right of everyone, and if you do not give a visa to an alien, the state will have to justify it. How is such an additional burden for the courts justified? And, according to your interpretation, does European Union law really prevail over Estonian laws, just as your previous answer sounded?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1001	Thank you for your question. The interpretation of the Court of Justice shall be binding on all Member States. When we talk about the burden on the court, the Ministry of Justice estimates that there is a maximum 3% increase in workload, and the Ministry of Justice has said that they can cope with this burden without any additional labour needs. There is no change in the burden in the appeal procedure, as the institution, whether it is a foreign agency or a PBGB, continues to resolve disputes at first instance, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Internal Affairs continues to do so. Nothing changes about that. Once again, the Ministry of Justice has said that it will not bring an increase in the workload to the administrative court. Today, the annual number of applications in the Estonian administrative court is around 3000.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1002	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1003	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Members of the Riigikogu have the right to know all small nuances. When Peter Ernits asked you to profilrate them [foreigners], we do not want to know their nation. You have a duty to provide us with information so that we can make decisions. So what are the main things [which are contested]? Are these crimes against individuals, are they serious crimes, are they frauds, are there any wrongdoings, is it physical abuse? How are these [the contested topics] mainly distributed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1004	Thank you. As far as I know, the number of offences there is relatively low. We usually talk about situations where there is a violation of any of the grounds for stay. A person comes here, I don't know, with a tourist visa, maybe he'll start working. He can't, he's ruining that vessel. Or there are examples where a person misreads the time limit for his or her stay in the European Union, for example, and allows these times to be exceeded, i.e. he or she is illegally staying here for a while, and then he or she will later be able to extend it [visa] for example. Can't, must leave the country, maybe file an appeal to a diplomatic mission or to the PBGB, justifies this argument by perhaps reading the days wrong, because, for example, in the case of a Schengen visa for 90 days within a 180-day period, perhaps some people may be wrong in [consideration]. So it's more of an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1005	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1006	Thank you very much. Good minister! It seems to me now that this is simply some part of the construction of a certain European Union court state. In addition, there is also such a strong logic problem or a significant, let us say, violation of sovereignty. This means, for example, that a foreigner who has not taken any steps on the territory of Estonia has never been here, though he has filed a visa application, has received a refusal, and then it has been resolved through the appeal procedure. And yet, he has the right to go to court with the question of why he is not allowed to enter the country, as if it weren't for the fundamental discretion of the state to decide who could enter the country on what grounds. The question here is: is it just another humble desire to be thrown on the ground in front of the European Union, to build bureaucracy, or is it perhaps our own mistake, where we have given the European Union an incorrect idea of the substance of our right? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1007	I believe that Estonia will continue to be, and will continue to be, a sovereign state. But still, infringement proceedings have been opened against Estonia, we are at risk of a rather salty fine. The Court of Justice has interpreted that an alien must have the right to sue. And Estonia has put this infringement procedure on the table and found that it must be interpreted in its judicial area as interpreted by the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1008	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1009	Thank you for your interesting presentation. I think that it is certainly right for the rule of law for people to be able to turn to the judicial authority to defend their rights, and that the judicial authority is in control, and that the other authorities have not made mistakes. I really hope that this law has not been initiated because Europe [this] wants or is being asked otherwise for a fine, but because we want to be sure that Estonia is really founded on justice and justice, and these principles are guaranteed to everyone, not even the citizens. If the Estonian visa is decided by the Estonian court, not international arbitration or some non-state organisation, then I do not see any threat to sovereignty here either; it is simply an additional judicial control. I hope you can confirm that they are and that only the Estonian courts will be [they] dealing with these complaints. And in this regard, I would ask how much this law will increase the administrative burden on our courts. Is it really possible to vex the judicial system maliciously? And maybe it's also how much extra spending comes into it, what is its budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1010	Thank you. When we talk once again about the judicial system, indeed, the Ministry of Justice has assessed that since foreigners are given an additional opportunity to complain, it is estimated that there may be up to 90 complaints per year that reach the administrative court. Once again, of course, only the Estonian state's judicial system can solve them. And once again: I am extremely sure and I also assure you here that, if we are looking at how much the'second-degree appeal' procedures have been satisfied, this amount is extremely small, it also shows that these first-level decisions have been very professional. So it's more like a very small amount coming to court. The practice of other countries, which have introduced the right of appeal in their national law in the case of visas, is also that there, also in our neighbouring countries, this percentage is up to 0.1%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1011	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1012	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The most recent year from which we know a little bit more about immigration data is 2019. In 2019, some 5,000 people from Eastern Slavic culture and Asia and Africa were added to us. And "addition" means more came in than went out. If migration like this continued, we would have one city the size of Pärnu, made up of new immigrants, in ten years' time. I'm asking you, is that a problem for you? And how does this draft affect immigration from the Eastern Slavic cultural space and Asian and African countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1013	Thank you. In my opinion, this bill does not affect this. On the previous question, I say that the person who comes here with good thoughts and brings benefits must enter the country of Estonia and does not have to be the person who does not come here with good thoughts and does not bring efficiency to the country of Estonia. And for that, we have very good border guards at the PBA who, on the front line, make sure it's really that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1014	Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1015	Thank you. It's not procedural. I would like to ask my question, which I could not ask because I did not have a microphone connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1016	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1017	I hope you can hear me now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1018	We're here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1019	You don't hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1020	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1021	Do you hear me? Very good! Then that's my question. I hear these rabid answers, but I remember this bill, and the officials planted it repeatedly and repeatedly to sign for me. In agreement with the Foreign Minister, we have decided that we will not support this draft and not support it for a very simple reason. First of all, our demographic balance is exactly what it is. And secondly, it basically opens up a flood of potential visas that we cannot manage and which basically results in the issue of visas at some point simply becoming a mechanical procedure. Have you ever thought this could happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1022	Thank you for your question. Our experts have been through this draft, including possible security threats. And once again, there will be no such flood. Two things: one is the assessment of our own justice system that there will not be such a flood of arguments, and one more time I will mention that, either during the appeal procedure or during legal proceedings, this person cannot enter the country, or if he has already been here, he must leave this country. And that's a very important point that went into that bill. I bring examples from neighbouring countries that may also give us confidence that there really cannot be such a great burden of justice. Finland issued 875000 visas in 2019; 49 came to court. Perhaps 49 out of a million in court. Lithuania issued 350000 visas in 2019 and 57 came to the Court. No visa decisions were brought before the Court in Latvia in 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1023	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1024	Yeah, thanks! Well, these numbers won't tell us anything. Perhaps this confirms what Mart Helme just said that visas are given to everyone who asks, and that is it. We still have a very fundamental debate here. I would point out that a sovereign state is not under any penalty or infringement procedure. When we held a referendum in 2003 to join the European Union, we all were assured that immigration was the sovereignty of the Member States and that the European Union would not stick its nose in it. Now it is very clear that it is taking over immigration policy. This is a fundamental change in immigration policy. This is, of course, being done by slices and explaining that nothing will change, but it is a fundamental change in immigration policy. As it has been said, it is no longer the case that we decide who comes, but now we have to explain why we cannot come. In this sense, I very much disagree with the Minister's statement that anyone who benefits Estonia must get to Estonia. There must be no one in Estonia on whom we decide that he does not have to get here. And whether we like him or don't like him or how it's all decided, it's our national decision. But when the European Union tells us to do so now, we are no longer a sovereign state. It's as simple as that. I actually didn't get an answer to my first question. Did the government also weigh... I mean, what exactly is our punishment for this violation if we don't stop it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1025	Thank you. As a preliminary point, the development of this draft took into account possible security needs. This also concerns immigration [the question]. Maybe once again: of course, not everyone has to get to the state of Estonia. And today, too, there is an appeal procedure. Let's just bring in court proceedings. As regards the question of the outcome of this infringement procedure, it is a financial fine of a minimum of EUR 361000.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1026	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1027	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have said several times today that those against whom there is going to be a trial due to the appeal procedure will be expelled from the Republic of Estonia. At the same time, I would point out that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia II. Chapter 2 sets out fundamental rights, freedoms and obligations. Paragraph 24: "Everyone has the right to be present at the hearing of his or her case. " At the same time, § 9 of the Constitution says that the rights listed in the Constitution extend equally to Estonian citizens as well as to foreign citizens and stateless persons. Therefore, your claim that they will be expelled is unsubstantiated according to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1028	Thank you for your question. Today, it is also possible to be in court proceedings virtually or in writing, and these opportunities are guaranteed for all of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1029	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1030	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is, of course, rather strange that the price of Estonian sovereignty is estimated to be five Tesla passenger cars, and this debate must be held. My question is more about how you look at whether the European demand for today's coalition is more like a gift to deal with or a big problem. Because let us be honest, from the point of view of Estonia, the one who has come here has violated the visa regime, he has the right to defend it in his country of residence, either before a court or before anyone. However, it does not need to be present in Estonia if it has violated the conditions laid down by the State for it and in which an agreement has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1031	Yeah, thanks! If I understand correctly, this person cannot stay in Estonia, he must leave, or he cannot come to the country if he has applied for his visa at a diplomatic mission. So let me get this straight. It doesn't have to be, it can't be that person in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1032	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1033	Thank you. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1034	I can hear you very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1035	The European Union calls on Member States to allow foreigners only to challenge negative decisions of short-stay visas in court. Given today's global trends and unstoppable migration of nations, this is clearly not in our interest and is, in my opinion, contrary to the principles of our constitution and sovereignty. At the same time, Estonia can still define the procedure for contesting negative decisions concerning long-stay visas and visa-free stays, and the law of the European Union is absolutely irrelevant here. However, for some reason, the government does not want to exercise this right. I ask: why is Estonia again such an overly ambitious and humble servant who, on his own initiative, extends the right to appeal to include long-stay visas? According to what logic does this unjustified activism serve the national and national interests of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1036	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the right of appeal against the draft decisions on visas applies both to short-stay visas governed by European Union law and to long-term visas governed by national law. And in the event of the expiry of the period of stay, it is simply the idea that, for the sake of the compactness, legal clarity and uniformity of regulation, it was reasonable to take the two things into a single draft. For example, for the same reasons, the current appeal procedures concerning the length of stay decisions were extended to all visa procedures when this regulation was developed in 2010. So in this sense, we are not doing anything again at the moment, but we have already used the same analogy in 2010. And in practice, it makes more sense if both types of visas are the same, either under appeal or under extended legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1037	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1038	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Would you open up a bit of this debate in the government when it comes to initiating this bill? If you said earlier that 361000 euros would be a price tag for the Estonian state if Estonia were to decide for itself who it wants to take, who it does not, and its sovereignty, whether there were differences of opinion in the government, or whether everyone agreed that it was a very good draft and that it had to be done and supported by the Estonian state, security, everything, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1039	Thank you for your question. Indeed, there was a unanimous decision in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1040	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1041	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Why are we not surprised that there was a consensus in the government? I mean, that's what I knew. But the law with which you are before the Riigikogu today is one very bad, highly slave-minded, and Estonians as a derogatory and humiliating law. Basically, we're gonna give every bum who wants to march into our living room, and we're gonna deny it, the right to challenge our decision in court. No sovereign country is acting like this, and this EUR 360000 is very small money for maintaining its dignity. But what I'm asking is that even if a citizen entering the country has an Estonian visa, at this point I know that the border police will always have the opportunity to say that thank you, no, turn around and do not even have to explain for a long time why. Will anything change in this law, too, or will we meet the European Union in this regard in our supreme slavery?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1042	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to repeat that, in the case of visas, only the Estonian state will decide whether it is in the administrative procedure, in the court or in the institution. When we talk about whether Estonia is the only such country, as I said, most of the countries of the European Union have implemented the same appeal procedure in their own country, including all our closest neighbours. As far as border action is concerned, i.e. the decision of the border guard, the border guard will continue to have every right to decide at the external border who he will let into the country and who he will not let in. In any event, only the border guard has the right to do so. He'll make that decision at the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1043	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1044	Good President and Mr Minister! Once again, as a sovereign state, we should have the right to control and direct our migration policy. But right now, as I understand it, in the fear of a Brussels stick or a fine, we are trying to change that. But you didn't answer my question in advance, to a specific question. You said, "I don't know. " I asked what kind of nations are, above all, the most complaining if they were not granted a visa or terminated prematurely, or if all these long ugly opportunities existed. Who are they? Are they Nigerians, are they Ukrainians? I don't think they're Vietnamese.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1045	Thank you for your question. I can certainly send [these data] about the nations, I don't have them with me at the moment. I really don't know how to say nations right now. Indeed, when we think about how much we have, for example, people working from other countries, third countries, a very large number coming from, for example, Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia. There may be [they], a very large number [of these countries] are working here, but I can't say for sure at the moment. In general, such violations, where a person comes here and is already on the verge of understanding that he is coming for the wrong purposes, i.e. an example in the past, where a person says that he is coming here as a tourist, well, at the moment no one is coming, but in the course of a conversation with a border guard, it turns out that his goals are something else, then he will be sent right back from the border. So this decision on the border, this bill, it doesn't change this situation in any way. But once again, I can definitely send these exact data, this opportunity is there, I'm afraid I don't have it with me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1046	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1047	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, We have a number of bad examples of how asylum seekers, who will be denied, will, in turn, be protected against the money of the Estonian state by highly paid lawyers. At the same time, the country is often under pressure from the press. And made of some people who had no right to asylum, that is to say, those who have the biggest problem at national level. And we've heard a lot of that noise. You gave examples of other countries, including Finland in 49 cases where the country lost. You also brought Lithuania as an example. Can you point out the cases in which foreigners were granted the right to these countries because of their refusal to hold a visa? With this kind of data, we could predict which cases will be waiting for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1048	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would point out that this draft law has nothing to do with those people who are applicants for international protection or beneficiaries of international protection. This draft concerns purely visas and the issue of stays. For other countries, I do not have this information about what these specific content of the appeal has been. But once again, when you look at the statistics of Estonia in previous years, this amount itself has been very small. In 2019, the number of such people was potentially 15. Then we will base ourselves on those people who, after filing a second-degree complaint, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as the Ministry of the Interior, received a non-supporting response. There were 15 of them. And presumably, we can assume that these 15 pieces could be referred to the administrative court next. 15!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1049	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1050	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have understood that our legal space is based on Roman law, that home is sacred and inviolable. Now it turns out that every mardisand has the right to challenge this decision as to whether or not we want to let him in our room. And that we should be afraid of that fine, which is somewhere estimated at EUR 360000. What's the problem? Now Europe gets this zero-interest cash completely cheap, we pay it off the wind. But we will at least respect that we decide who and for what reasons [may be in our country]. Because I understand that for a lot of people, we have to say no, but we can't be delicate about what's behind this. Don't you think it's cheaper to pay the fine than to change ourselves, perhaps, according to countries where no one wants to go?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1051	Thank you for your question. The Estonian state decides to be here, to be here and when to leave, both today and in the future. It's just that there's going to be more courts. The Estonian state decides this, still, no one else can decide this for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1052	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1053	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Strangely enough, exactly ten years ago, during the Andrus Ansip government in March 2011, exactly the same issue was discussed in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. And then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concluded, and I am now trying to quote: 'This section gives up the possibility of challenging the procedure for refusal, revocation and revocation of visas before the administrative court. Neither international law, European Union law nor Estonian law implies an obligation for Estonia to allow the contestation of visa decisions or procedures in court. " Now the question is: will the effect of EU law remain such a bouncing, unpredictable effect on our national law that we have to reform our laws every ten years? Or, on the basis of Oudekki Loone's argument, would the Estonian court remain the last step, or could it also be appealed to the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1054	Thank you. Indeed, about ten years ago, such a debate was, and in relation to the Visa Code, European Union law was indeed interpreted as such until the moment when the judgment of the Court of Justice came in 2017 and that decision is now such and binding on all Member States. Just at a later date than that you referred to us, i.e. 2017, the judgment of the European Court of Justice was added, and that is why we are in a situation where we are today, and the government has presented this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1055	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1056	Good minister! How do you feel about paralleling the relationship between individuals, whether, for example, entering another person's private property could be regulated in the same way? So if someone forbids me to enter his apartment or his home garden, could I have the right to sue the owner for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1057	This is a little regulated by other legislation. If anyone wants to enter someone's dwelling illegally, it's regulated by the Penal Code. In this case, the Police and Border Guard Board deals with this in the Republic of Estonia. These are not exactly comparable situations. Once again, yes, this situation is dealt with in accordance with the principles of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1058	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1059	Good meeting manager! Minister, thank you very much. I will now address for a moment the draft explanatory memorandum and its paragraph on 'Member States' practice in challenging visas in the case of Latvia, Finland, Sweden, the Czech Republic and Poland'. And I quote: "Latvia, Finland, Sweden, the Czech Republic and Poland have been chosen as examples of foreign practice because Latvia, Finland and Sweden are neighbouring countries of Estonia, which are historically and administratively close to Estonia. " So, and now my question: what is the administrative and historical proximity of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1060	Very good question, thank you for that. In particular, this question cannot be answered, but when we are talking about neighbouring countries, these examples can actually be given from a further distance. I can also add here, for example, Poland, which was in a joint infringement procedure with Estonia, already introduced a right of appeal in the visa procedure in 2019, and their statistics are such that some 50 visa decisions will be brought to court somewhere in the year. Maybe then I expanded a bit on the examples of neighbouring countries where there will be a court or how many visa decisions will come to court in Poland, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1061	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1062	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would remind you of the time when we began, again, following the example of Europe, together with Europe, to abolish the visa obligation for Ukraine, the Ukrainians. We were then told the same story that it would not lead to any explosion of migration; it would not cause us any problems with crime. In short, there won't be any problems. As a former Prefect, I think you know very well that there are many problems. We are full of constructions, farms and other businesses from the illegal labour force, which requires a considerable resource from the Estonian state, an expensive resource. If you mentioned that the fine in infringement proceedings would be EUR 360000, I would argue that all these cases, expulsions and other things will ultimately cost more. But the question I want to ask more specifically is, how many Finns refused to issue visas to give them about 50 arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1063	Thank you for your question. I can send you this answer in writing. Indeed, I only have data on how many visas Finland issued and how many times the disputes came to court. But as far as the first part of your question is concerned, yes, I agree with you that very many people will come here during the year as part of labour migration, and mostly these people will come here to do the right thing. And those who do not come, of course, must also be monitored. The Police and Border Guard Board has increased this monitoring capacity quite significantly in recent years. So, after a person has entered Estonia, do so-called migration surveillance to make sure that this person still remains on the right footing in Estonia and does what he is allowed to do here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1064	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1065	Thank you. Several times it has sounded as if this bill were a threat to Estonia's sovereignty and would allow the Estonian state to be deprived of the right to decide which immigration policy we are implementing here. Could you explain in more detail what the Estonian administrative court is deciding exactly about here? Does he decide whether the institution that did not extend the visa or refused to grant the visa acted in accordance with Estonian law, the laws adopted in this Chamber? Or does it somehow give the courts the opportunity to say that the immigration policy of the current government is wrong? For example, what does this mean from a substantive point of view? If Estonia, for example, hypothetically decided one day that we would ban all immigration, no visas would be issued, would this law give the court the opportunity to say that no, it cannot do such a thing? Could you open this side a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1066	Thank you. It is only procedurally and legally assessed by the court, which is exactly what the administrative authority actually does, whether it is a foreign agency, a second instance Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the PBA or the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the other court does not assess it. It is also important here that these circumstances are not disclosed in any way to the person who has filed the appeal, but only to the person who sees the decision. And it is exactly the same in the internal appeal procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1067	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1068	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, I dare say that quite common practice in Estonia is actually linked to the fact that, if a European directive needs to be complied with, there will be additional provisions that are not required by European Union law. And, well, it is often justified by the compactness of the draft, or by some other detail that officials have had in mind and in the language, so that it can be removed with the draft in the Riigikogu and deal with in parallel under European Union law. Can you tell us whether there could be anything else in this draft that European Union law does not really require, but we want to set it ourselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1069	Thank you for your question. No, that's all there is. It is what I mentioned at the beginning that European Union law regulates a short-stay visa, a Schengen visa, and does not regulate Estonia's 'national visa', a long-term visa in itself. However, for practical reasons, indeed, to ensure the compactness and legal clarity of the whole regulation, the draft also includes the fact that national law is equally extended to what is European Union law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1070	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1071	Thank you. You answered my previous question that, in the interests of the compactness of regulation, it is reasonable that the appeal procedure has been extended to everyone, both the processing of short-stay and long-stay visas, which we are not actually required to do at all. That is what you said to the previous questioner that compactness and legal clarity. But that's no reason at all. The own-initiative waiver of the sovereign decision-making power of the Estonian state is unacceptable and seems rather to be a disgrace to Brussels. But you did not answer my second and very important question: according to what logic does this unjustified activism serve the national and national interests of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1072	Thank you. The state of Estonia is. I stress! A sovereign state that has entered the European Union continues to be a sovereign state. Everyone in Estonia has the right to apply to the courts. And indeed, this opportunity has been given today to people, foreigners, who are here on the basis of some kind of visa. The European Court of Justice has said that such a right must be brought into national law by the Member States, and that is why we have submitted this draft to the honourable Riigikogu in order for this draft and the same possibility to exist in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1073	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1074	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Does European Union law, in this case in the form of a judgment of the Court of Justice, take precedence over the Constitution of Estonia in matters which, according to the Treaty of Lisbon, do not fall within the competence of the institutions of the European Union, that is to say, the competence of the Member States? Is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1075	Thank you for your question. There is nothing superior to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1076	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1077	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You've been working on the police system for a long time. Haven't you ever been concerned about this draft [about] that, if this draft comes into force, its remote consequence will be the expansion of the field of work of your former colleagues, the risk of their lives becoming more dangerous when situations arise where persons who should not be present in Estonia, whose visa has been revoked for various reasons, still get justice in court and continue their activities in Estonia? As far as I am concerned, the safety and life of the people of Estonia, as well as of our police officers, as well as the sovereignty already mentioned above, is worth considerably more than EUR 360000, which would be worth paying the fine. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1078	Thank you for your question. I am absolutely sure that this will not bring any further work to my colleagues in this regard. As far as appeal procedures are concerned in the administration, there is indeed no change in that; their administrative procedures will continue in exactly the same way. Once again, I stress that these people cannot remain in Estonia. The draft states very specifically that the initial legal protection will not be applied to them, i.e. indeed, they cannot come here and [if they are already here] they will have to leave the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1079	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1080	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Very honourable Minister! I'm interested in the practical side and the future. The future can be predicted through lessons from the past, and therefore I wonder whether you have defined the parameters by which to assess that this was a good change in the visa regime. Second, when does the government plan to evaluate it? And third, if it turns out that this was not a very successful decision, what is the action plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1081	Thank you. If we are now talking about the internal administrative appeal procedure, once again, we will not change anything in this regard, and the experts have said that the two-step appeal procedure that is in the legal space today is very practical and works very well. Now what might come up with this bill is legal proceedings, and that is what we will know when the court starts creating practice. It's very hard to say today. We can say or conclude something that has been the practice of institutions over the years. In this form, this appeal process has been completely practical, fully operational. But once again: this is certainly a new situation for the court and we will see in the near future what case-law is beginning to emerge. At the same time, I would point out here again that there is a very small number of such complaints that are very likely to be brought to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1082	Urmas Reinsalu, please! Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1083	Thank you! Mr. Home Secretary, good Kristian! My question concerns the subject of a wider change in migration policy. This has to do with the fact that two weeks ago, on your proposal, the government exceptionally granted citizenship to a person who was punished three times in Russia, even though the Citizenship Act says that persons who have been repeatedly punished in criminal matters are not generally granted. This puts this change in the legal basis for migration processes in a broader context. Why don't you explain and answer a question in Parliament? Who was that person? What were [his] crimes? What were your motives for making this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1084	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the Citizenship Act allows the Government of the Republic, by way of exception, to grant citizenship to a person who has been repeatedly punished for crimes whose sentence has been extinguished, taking into account, of course, the circumstances in which the crime has been committed and the person responsible. When we are now talking about the decision taken at the government meeting on 4 March, we are indeed talking about a citizenship granted to one person, which had been criminally punished three times for acts committed in the Russian Federation. The first case was the theft in 1991. I stress: 1991. The other two cases were the avoidance of alimony payments in 1993 and 2003. It's been 18 years since he committed his last crime. He himself has explained the application for citizenship in such a way that it is of course very important to him. He's a immobile person, ethnic Estonian. And indeed, [acquiring citizenship] was his very great desire. With this action, he also wants to set such a good example, simply in the sense that the disabled people with very serious disabilities did go through this process in a simplified way and were granted citizenship. I do believe that he has long drawn his conclusions from these actions, of which almost 20 years have indeed come. And we're talking about not paying alimony and stealing in 1991.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1085	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1086	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! This bill is undoubtedly a small part of our immigration policy. Jaak White brought up numbers here, a lot of the balance of migration has been like a plus. Can you tell us how much the proportion of people who define themselves as Estonian has decreased in Estonia over the last three years, or will the Estonians define their nationality? And how long would it take for this number to reach 62%, which we had in 1989, when the last Soviet census took place? What, then, could be the trend of the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1087	Thank you for your question. I'm really sorry, I can't say the numbers, the proportions in this form. However, I will say that this draft does not regulate immigration policy in any way. Immigration is still more linked to residence permits. This specific draft is about visas: short-stay visas, long-stay visas, extension of time-limits for stays, cancellations, etc. These are a little bit of two different topics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1088	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1089	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Does this draft concern people who are denied access to the Schengen visa zone, for example, for political reasons? Somebody in the Kremlin's important position or something? As he lodges a visa application, he receives a negative reply, he disputes it in the Estonian court and the vupsti! It's back in Schengen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1090	Thank you for your question. For us, every foreigner is a regular foreigner, no matter where he works. And in that sense, if he is a foreigner, if he has filed a visa application, has received a negative reply, has filed an appeal with a foreign agency, then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then next he will also have the right to file a complaint before the court, and then the court will actually decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1091	Thank you, Minister. It seems that the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. We can move forward, and I would like to ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1092	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable ambassadors! The draft law amending the law on foreigners 328 was on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 16 February 2021. The Commission meeting took place via the video bridge and the draft was presented to us by the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaan, together with a considerable delegation from the Ministry of the Interior. The substance of the bill, I think, you just got a very good idea. In the Commission, we were told that infringement proceedings were opened against Estonia in 2013 and that the potential sanction was 361000 euros, plus the effectiveness part. In addition to the fact that, indeed, any person could have the right to apply to the courts in Estonia. That is why such a bill has been presented to us. However, the Commission had different opinions. Urmas Reinsalu recalled his time in the Government of the Republic and mentioned that he did not support such an approach at the time, because this is not a question of the human rights category, but rather our national competence. The debate was thorough and constructive. Unfortunately, this did not end in consensus. The Commission took the following decisions: It was proposed to put the draft on the agenda today and to appoint me rapporteur for the Commission. These decisions were consensual. However, the vote on the termination of the first reading was not consensual: there were 6 votes in favour and 2 against. Thank you. I'd love to answer the questions if there's any left.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1093	Andres Metsoja, is this a procedural question? Two questions can be asked under this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1094	Well, that's too bad. There would have been questions, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1095	Got it. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1096	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Just to educate yourself: which institution is the Court of Justice? I know that there are very different courts in Europe. Is this a human rights court, or what is this simply a European Court of Justice? I don't know an institution like that. It reads here: the judgment of the Court of Justice of 13 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1097	It states that the European Commission will be able to go to court in infringement proceedings and claim a fine of almost EUR 400000 during this procedure. However, it may not end as Urmas Reinsalu mentioned in the committee meeting. He has a disagreement about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1098	Mikhail Lotman, yes, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1099	Thank you. Thanks for the answer! He answered very well, but not my question. My question was something entirely different. What institution is the Court of Justice? I don't know that. I know the European Court of Human Rights, I know different courts there, but here is just the European Court of Justice. What kind of institution is this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1100	The European Commission may apply to the Court for a fine. Undoubtedly, every European country has a European Court of Justice in geographical terms. We did not discuss this particular procedure, because we wanted to avoid it by adopting this law, which I hope will also take place here in the next readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1101	Thank you, dear waitress. Looks like... No, still. Kert Kingo, please! I don't think there's a connection right now. There are no next questioners. So, there seems to be no more requests to speak. Henn Põllamaas, please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1102	Thank you. There is a chapter in the explanatory memorandum entitled "Employment to national security and external relations," but there is not a word about security and the impact of this law on our security. Perhaps you can explain it, and did the Commission even discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1103	It was... I'm sorry! This was a procedural question because two questions had already been asked and that was the third question. But if the waitress wishes, there's a chance to answer. There's a chance, but if you don't want to, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1104	Well, the influence we've been talking about. One danger is that, as the Minister for the Interior mentioned in his replies, there is an increasing burden on the courts. But that probability isn't very high. That is what we discussed, yes, because this effect cannot be very massive, because previous practice also shows that people do not use this opportunity to stay in Estonia on a massive basis. So the risks in this key are not very high and no one in the Commission has specifically pointed out this fact. But there are certain effects, of course. The fact that some of these disputes will be brought to court and possibly a little more people will remain in Estonia. But no one has predicted such a great mass.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1105	Andres Metsoja, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1106	Yeah. Based on the practice of the previous procedural question, if Andrei Korobenik agreed to answer the procedural question, maybe I can take the same opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1107	No, we can't keep practicing it. It was my mistake as manager that I gave the floor under non-procedural questions. Okay, looks like there's no more questions. Then thank you to the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1108	Thank you very much. I'll see you soon!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1109	Let's move on to the negotiations. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1110	Thank you. I listened to this report and the explanations given by the Commission representative, and I remembered the old Soviet anecdote about how the working collective is being gathered and it is said that tomorrow everyone will have to hang themselves. And an aspiring Estonian, of course, asks if you should take your rope with you. This is entirely appropriate at the moment; it is a perfectly relevant story. Because, as Urmas Reinsalu quite appropriately noted, it fits into the context of immigration, citizenship and the survival of the Estonian state and the nature of the Estonian state. Is Estonia a global territory called Estonia, where everyone has rights and only the indigenous people have some obligations? Or is he still our national home, as our constitution also provides? It is such a principled question that there can be no two-way thinking about this question. And all those claims we heard from the waitresses that nothing is happening, everything is under our control, everything is fine, don't worry, it doesn't cost anything. Because we can see now: in the last two years, the percentage of Estonians in the Estonian population has decreased and has decreased mainly because of immigration. The introduction of visa freedom with a whole range of countries from the former Soviet Union, especially Ukraine with a large population, but also with some former republics of the Caucasus, the current independent states, has already caused a growing flood of people who want to come to Estonia. With regard to these people, we are not specifically talking about certain acts of this draft, about certain moments of this draft, but we can say with complete certainty and conviction that the adoption of this draft and the introduction of a visa argument to the level of the courts will start us in the long term, by the end of the day, as we are saying, I hope that not by the end of the Estonian People's Day, we will bring mass disputes. Mass disputes! If someone tries to make it clear to me that African immigrants, immigrants from the Middle East, who have applied for a visa, who have been denied a visa, but who already have a community in front of whom they want to come, are not going to argue it on a massive scale, then I say that you are struck by darkness and extremely naive. Of course they will, of course they will, of course they will, of course they will find all kinds of human rights organisations who will pay their legal costs and lawyers, our own human rights centres, our own Estonian taxpayer's money, will represent many of these opponents. The ultimate naivety is to think it won't happen. Since this has not yet happened in the countries referred to above, such as Finland and some other [countries], there is only one reason: these communities are not yet so large and this urge to come has not yet exceeded a certain breaking point. That's the explanation. Not that it's not going to happen or that it's just a few rare cases. And, of course, we will inevitably come to the issue of sovereignty. After all, the practice of the European Union, the European Commission, to cross the sovereignty of the Member States, has become clear to us in white. It's a slice by slice. It's like a rat chewing a hole bigger. At first, only a little breeze of some sort blows through a little bit, but the rat starts chewing, chews a hole in it, and finally gets into the grain tray. Exactly the same is the introduction of globalism and ideological thinking and the right behaviour taken by the European Commission and certain European political forces and the countries and politicians representing them in the European Union. This bill fits right into this puzzle, right into that mosaic. It's about disrupting the sovereignty of nation states...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1111	I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1112	... the law of the continuance of national statehood, the self-being of peoples and the law of its decision-making right. We do not support this law, we fight against this law. And I don't want any longer... I'm done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1113	No, I wanted to ask if you wanted to...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1114	And we propose that this bill be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1115	Thanks, got it. You have a chance to ask for three more minutes, but I understand you don't want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1116	No, I've said what I wanted to say in the main. And this rejection is an expression of our attitude towards this bill. And I want to say so much that, as minister, I kept this bill, and I am very sorry that the new minister has signed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1117	Thank you. We have technical problems. Director's break two minutes. All right, ladies and gentlemen. The technical problems are hopefully solved, we can continue. Urmas Reinsalu, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1118	Thank you. It's interesting that the system that was complaining about here a few hours ago, I see now it's starting to work. I don't know if selectively now, in my case, with pranks. I had a question for the Minister of the Interior, then he threw me out of the system, wanted to ask Mr. Korobenik, and I got the same sentence. My question is: how do we do when I start giving a speech and he throws me out again, do I have the order to present my speech later in writing? This current e-system will become an element of quite selective democracy for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1119	It is certainly possible to give your speech in writing. And I hope that if it is interrupted, the [call] can continue or speak again verbally for as long as we have a hearing. But, unfortunately, there really are a lot of technical problems today. Kalle Grünthal, please, techn... procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1120	Not technical, not procedural, thank you! First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu messenger as well as the advisor who helped me now with the fresh document of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, which probably not everyone has yet, because no one has taken an interest in this at all. However, in view of the fact that there has been a fact here, which was also pointed out by the President of the session of the honourable Riigikogu [attention] that there are continuous technical failures, I would like to refer to § 891 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, paragraph 3: "A late sitting may be held if a member of the Riigikogu is given the opportunity to observe a real-time session while away, to perform the proceedings of the sitting (promotion, presentation, oral question, speech, protest, voting and other actions) and to report on the impediment to doing them." We have now heard that the honourable Riigikogu Ambassador Urmas Reinsalu has not been able to carry out the actions that the law actually allows him and obliges him to fully ensure in the conduct of the remote session. By pointing out § 891 of this same law, I find that we can't go any further with this trial, because there are a little too many of these technical failures, so we're going to drive a boat that's leaking all the time, and eventually we're not going anywhere on the beach. It's a figurative expression. But the important thing is that there is currently a violation of paragraph 3 of that same section. Not all members of the Riigikogu have been able to ask oral questions, there have been problems with speaking, protesting, voting and other activities, so I would ask the President of the Riigikogu to interrupt this session. We are currently voting on such an important issue as the draft law that the Minister for the Interior has tabled, so that no jokes can be made about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1121	Thank you, justified [ concern] of course! But we have so far managed to solve technical problems so that all previous votes have taken place so that all members of the Riigikogu have been able to vote, have been able to ask and have been able to speak except Urmas Reinsalu. And the Urmas Reinsalu problem we're solving right now is very simple. Urmas, are you there? You missed a question. If you'd like to submit, the minister is here, the minister will be ready to answer your question. Please let me know if you want to ask your question afterwards, and I'll ask Mr. Minister's speaking desk so he can answer. But first there's a couple of procedural questions. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1122	Good manager! I have come up with this proposal earlier, but I would point out that we still have five very important questions ahead of us at today's sitting, which require many speeches, many votes, etc. Wouldn't it be wise, because today has been really crazy for these interruptions, for now to stop and give our IT team a chance to act calmly until morning, so that on a new day, we can start with a clean slate and without these endless messes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1123	Thank you. We've crossed the rocks and stumps here. And neither the work of a member of the Riigikogu is an intervention; we are still trying to endure. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1124	Yeah, I have a procedural question. I humanly understand your proposal so that Urmas Reinsalu can now put his question to the Minister of the Interior. But the current situation is, in fact, that the rapporteur, Minister for the Interior, Kristian Jaani, has finished his presentation, after which the rapporteur, Mr Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has also finished. There's already been calls here. In order to try to be an absolute example for the entire state of compliance with the law, please refer in the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act to such an article, paragraph, paragraph, paragraph, etc. that allows such an act to be carried out even after speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1125	Thank you. The content of the meeting is always more important than the form, and if we do not go against any other laws here, the Constitution, then I think that, under the Rules of Procedure Act, we can also flexibly resolve this issue in an emergency situation, just as we are now here because of technical problems, so that wolves have eaten and sheep are healthy, and nothing happens. We can all carry out voting procedures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act and also ensure that all members of the Riigikogu have been able to ask their questions and have been able to speak. I think that this is the substance of the point of the Rules of Procedure Act and this content is certainly more important than this form. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1126	Yeah, procedural, that's right. I see we only have our first readings here. None of these drafts is currently the case that we are in a time-critical situation where we need to adopt something quickly [with regard to [a special situation], as the Prime Minister said, that we have a basically special situation. It's still not. We only have a basically special situation when we're just entering an emergency situation. And there is not a single item on the agenda that we should be dealing with by four, today or in the context of this sitting. Maybe it looks tragic to IT people, how a bunch of middle-aged people puss and puss with their first readings. Get the IT guys to help! Can we come back tomorrow and start over?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1127	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1128	Thank you, Mr President. You mentioned two reasons. Now, if we say the Constitution doesn't go exactly against it, then it could be done in the form of goodwill, etc. Another of your reasons was that all the ambassadors have been able to vote here, to speak, to speak. I dare argue against it, and probably there is no dispute in this regard with others, because Urmas Reinsalu failed to ask, to use the opportunity provided by law to ask questions. Therefore, § 891 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu is still violated. Such a thing cannot be allowed to fail to comply with the law and simply go on under ordinary law. We have certain regulations, we cannot allow such a thing, Mr. Speaker. I agree with you, absolutely, in case you give a specific paragraph that is going on. Because otherwise it could be that we could start saying that we are asking five questions in a row, or doing other things. We cannot allow such discretionary decisions at the work of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1129	Thank you. We are trying to guarantee all members of the Riigikogu their right to speak, to vote, to ask questions. That's the main thing, and I think we can do it. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1130	Good manager! Recently, I heard a surprising statement from you that content is more important than form. Basically, I agree that we should talk more about content rather than bump into the form ahead of us that the Home and Working Procedures Act does not allow. But we are a deeply ritualized institution with very well regulated, when can and how much to ask, perform, etc. But your current statement is very surprising. And also the action, by the way, my penguin got here three questions and so on. Have such statements come from fatigue? That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1131	No, my good colleague, I feel totally rude. But if the penguin, the chairman of the Riigikogu, who is well aware of the Rules of Procedure, asks three questions and is wrong, maybe he is tired, I cannot comment on that. I'm full of energy and will to lead the hearing. And I think it is important to follow the rules of the house and work and to guarantee the fundamental rights of the members of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, we can become very formal and formalist. There are always questions here that are longer than one minute as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure Act. We break practically every time we ask a longer question than one minute, the Home and Working Procedures Act formally, so most of these procedural questioners have repeatedly violated this section of the Rules of Procedure here today. However, this does not mean that we should become a formalist and turn off the microphones when [the question] comes to an end. So we are still based on the substance and the meaning of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1132	I wanted to make a procedural remark and recommend that Mr Grünthal and others, in addition to the sections of the remote session, read other sections of the Home and Working Procedures Act. A procedural question in general is not an instrument for chairing a sitting. The sitting shall be chaired by the President. And the terminology should be precise: the President does not make proposals and statements, but rejects or does not reject protests. So we sit here for so long, mainly because of the violation of the law on home and working procedures with procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1133	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1134	Thank you. I would like to continue this good practice, which Eerik-Niles Kross drew attention to, and I would like to congratulate the President on his very good approach. The most important principles in our work are common sense and flexibility, and common sense and flexibility say that when urgent decisions are needed in special situations, Parliament is sovereign, the Speaker of Parliament can flexibly resolve all questions, and the decision now to let Mr Reinsalu ask his question is excellent. I have a proposal that we proceed with the sitting and allow Mr Reinsalu to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1135	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1136	Thank you. I have three procedural remarks. Point one. If something is not a fixed law on home and working arrangements, it does not mean that it cannot be used. You can't do what's forbidden in there. I have also led the council, and such decisions are entirely the competence of the manager. Point two. At this point in time, the suspension of the sitting is much greater, say, an obstacle when this document has been adopted by us than the weekly rules of procedure and we do not have the power to amend it at the moment. And a third. You can't turn back the time anyway, and if we take this thing tomorrow, that doesn't mean Reinsalu's rights have been restored by it, that he couldn't ask in time. The point 3a is that perhaps Urmas would ask Reinsalu if he felt very discriminated against in the situation he is now asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1137	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1138	Yes, thank you! I decided, in the course of this discussion, that I would have to intervene on behalf of non-attached ambassadors. And I want to say that I find this sitting today very enjoyable, especially Mr Grünthal's questions about home and working procedures. Mart Helme's speech was a very, very enjoyable comic performance. And I'd ask that we continue the trial until the morning. I think we have all contributed very much today so that we can get out of this corona virus crisis as soon as possible, the Estonian people would get vaccines and our lives would be better. I think we can all be proud of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1139	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1140	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, congratulations for allowing you to talk over time on matters. Thank you very much for that. I do not want to attack you absolutely, but the question is that Urmas Reinsalu could not be asked because of a technical failure and now you are giving the chance to ask the Minister of the Interior for further questions. In fact, the fact is that the principles of the draft [working] at first reading are listed in § 98. First there is a presentation by the initiator of the draft and the representative of the [leading committee], then two oral questions will come to the Riigikogu, then negotiations will be opened, and then we will go to the vote. If you now want to 'good will', I fully understand you, give Urmas Reinsalu the opportunity to ask, then we will not go against the remote part of the sitting, but the order of the procedure of the whole, let us say, the first draft. So, let's say I bring a very simple [example]. The point is that if a dispute is held in court, it is not possible to ask any questions after the dispute. We should also follow this draft procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1141	Thank you. Yes, indeed, so it is that the order in this case is not as foreseen in the home and operating procedures, but it is due to technical failures. And more importantly, I think that we would give the members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to ask, give a speech due to the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, and also take part in the vote. These are the fundamental rights that we should guarantee. And if technical problems prevent us from going specifically in this order, I think it makes sense to act flexibly in such a way that no one can ask any more questions, but the questions that we are about to ask will be asked. So we are not giving anyone the opportunity to ask more than two questions, just as the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure provide for under this item on the agenda. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. As my third question came up here, I am very sorry, too, the Chairman of the Riigikogu sometimes forgets the rules of our home and rules of procedure. And this mistake was not at all in the Presidency, but only in me, and I thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to respond further to the rapporteur. I have always stressed [this] and knocked on the conscience of the members of the Riigikogu that our law on home and working procedures must be observed, and I will try to follow my words more closely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1143	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, a procedural question or a question to the Minister of the Interior so that we can move on to the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1144	Thank you. First of all, a procedural question. I have a request to fix, for the sake of the record, my communication should be interrupted once again, that I intend to take part in the vote on this item and the points on these special committees. If I am expelled from the system, I ask, after seeing that I did not take part in the vote, to cancel this vote because I could not technically participate in it. Secondly, I also intend to take part in the debate on the Committee on the Population Crisis with a speech. I hope that if I am expelled from the system, I will be able to record this statement in writing later. Now, the question of this [leader's decision]. I think that the President of the sitting must be free to decide on these matters, and I think that is a salomonic solution. And now I'm embarrassed myself because I tried to ask the Minister of the Interior at first, the system kicked me out, later I tried to ask this question to Andrei Korobenik, and the system kicked me out. I have a request: I thought that since I have already asked the Minister for the Interior a question, I would prefer to exercise the right to make use of the second question [so that it is] to the rapporteur of the lead committee, Mr Andrei Korobeinik.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1145	Yeah, Andrei Korobenik is still in the hall. But first Kalle Grünthal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1146	Thank you, Mr President. As I understand it, you also admitted to some extent that there is a degree of legal contradiction here, well, to some extent. I have such a suggestion that you may be willing to take a ten-minute break to discuss the matter with the Bureau or at least discuss it with the advisors. Maybe you can do it even faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1147	Thank you. I am now assuming this responsibility that I will continue to chair the sitting and not take a break right now. Urmas Reinsalu, please ask a question to Andrei Korobenik. I'm gonna ask Andrei Korobenik to speak to you. Urmas, are you there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1148	Yeah, I'm here, dear friends! Things are still working right now. My question, Andrei, is very simple. If this is a question that has been going on for years, will it also be opened in the Commission, for which reason, for years, the various governments have not considered it reasonable to adopt this bill of law, which is a bill that is a matter of solitude? In fact, perhaps you are opening up my arguments, the chain of legal, constitutional arguments more thoroughly to the House, because this [debate] was considerably more extensive than you introduced in your very 'central' committee report in two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1149	Thank you very much, Urmas, for your question. The main reason why the government has not moved forward with this initiative in seven years was that you were a member of this government, based on what we learned at the committee meeting. And now that there's a change of government, here we are with this bill. In fact, I have spoken about the arguments in the Commission in my report. The main argument was that obtaining a visa is not a human right; it is rather such a privilege. That is why the State could decide for itself whether or not to issue this visa and therefore do not need to be able to challenge it through the courts. But this particular draft essentially says the opposite, so that's the difference between a paradigm. So, indeed, your presentation in the committee was very exciting and educational, and it was also reflected in the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1150	Thank you. And let's... Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1151	Thank you, Mr President. It is now that I come to § 98 of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which sets out the procedure for discussing the draft at first reading. Okay, you've now caught an oral question from Urmas Reinsalu to the representative of the commission. New information has now been received from the representative of the commission and, in order for this to also be logically consistent, negotiations should be reopened, during which all representatives of the political groups can take place. So, by that logic, Mart Helme should have another chance to negotiate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1152	No, thank you! I do not think that this was such important information, which would assume that we will now reverse the agenda for the sitting. All members of the group have had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the Commission's materials and what has been said earlier in the committee, and I assume that not all members of the Riigikogu have done so, so nothing new has discovered here. But now we can move on with the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of Urmas Reinsalu Isamaa, is there a connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1153	Helir, there's a connection to the Fatherland. I'm asking for three more minutes first!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1154	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1155	Thank you. The Fatherland Group has such an interesting but very clearly argued proposal to reject this bill, if unnecessary and not appropriate to our security interests. Raimond had a very correct point when he said that we were really dealing with this porridge in the middle of a coronal crisis. I don't think this mush deserves our attention so much at this time. The right thing is what Andrei said. My attention was drawn to this bill when I was in the office of the Minister of Justice, the highest security officials in Estonia, who said that it would create an extremely dangerous precedent for decisions based on sensitive security information of the state on such a sensitive issue as possible judicial challenge to admission. And what is the question? In practice, the question is that there is a great deal of information in these matters moving through the various security authorities' own information channels and it is not conceivable that some subjective information, as well as any claims that these claims by other national operational services will be defended in court by the Estonian security authorities in judicial proceedings and published by these sources. It's an unrealistic idea. There are three main problems. The first problem, which was well opened by Andrei Korobeinik, concerns that we are creating a category of subjective decision-making for foreigners in public law, not anymore, but also their subjective right. And by doing so, we will make the right of entry a sort of operational phenomenon within the human rights category. This, I think, is not fit for purpose, because it limits the choice of our country, above all, executive power, to a significant extent. Just as in some other areas of life where the state has a subjective decision to consider, whether it is giving the President's orders or any other issue that is not subjective to judicial review in terms of subjective law, so, I think, it should also remain in the case of processing visa applications. The second category undoubtedly concerns the practical security interest, including the situation where, in this case, the practice of security authorities is likely to prevent entry in the interests of security in the case of various hypothetical or estimated, prognostic considerations, in fact, becomes much more narrow and cautious. Security authorities, fearing that they will have to answer to the court through administrative court proceedings, prefer, if they do not have strong, publicly available evidence, to be more cautious and certainly not in the interests of Estonia's security. The problems of the third category, which are ideologically involved in this draft, are, in my view, linked to the fact that persons who do not have the right to entry and who challenge it, in such a case, there could certainly be situations in which [they] may also apply for legal proceedings to enable that court to be held on the territory of the country, and then it will undoubtedly be a purely court prerogative. No executive official or politician, including the Minister of the Interior or the Government, as the author of this draft, can give guarantees as to what the possible case law will become, as the judiciary is independent. Let me give you a memorable example. In fact, when the Russian military pensioners were talking about staying in [Estonia], Eerik remembers this, he dealt with this committee in his own time, the practice of the administrative chamber of the Supreme Court was finally determined in a completely different and broader way. And we can actually reach the same right based on precedents. As far as the processing of this draft is concerned, I have really opposed the procedure of the draft in those years, I have considered it unnecessary and prevent the realisation of Estonian security interests, and thirdly, the creation of an ideological category of human rights or subjective rights on migration issues on issues for which there is no real need, and it is not justified by international human rights standards. And thirdly, as regards the reference to the fact that references, letters from the European Commission have been made to this effect, the task of the officials of the Estonian state is to argue meaningfully, to state the chain of arguments and the category of arguments in respect of which one might say that Estonia has arguments, Estonia will apply these corresponding decisions arising from the European Court of Justice according to the particular nature of its legal order. This is nothing unusual, the protection of national interests, including security interests, in a collective body such as the different institutions of the European Union, all Member States are involved. There is nothing deplorable or inappropriate about this. My proposal, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, is to put this bill as a matter of poor precedents in terms of security, a matter which is constitutionally dangerous and completely unnecessary, in a peacefully moving chamber. We shall vote in favour of rejecting this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1156	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, since the name was mentioned, is entitled to reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1157	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Urmas Reinsalu mentioned me, and I think it is necessary to clarify that if I made a somewhat critical statement about what is going on at the Riigikogu today, I did not mean that we are dealing with various drafts that are important to the state, but mainly the actions of the representatives of one political group in order to simply prevent and spend the time of the sitting. As far as I know, the Health Board today doesn't have the resources to call through close contacts in the North region. People who love to give speeches would rather, in my opinion, go and help them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1158	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1159	Thank you. Mr Kaljulaid, I would like to refer to you in the form of a procedural question addressed to the President of the sitting. I think the point is that if Members of Parliament stand up for their principles and do so in the form of a debate, there is nothing inappropriate about it. On the contrary, we defend our understanding of the organisation of the Estonian state. And if we are dealing with positions that we do not think are in the interests of the Estonian state, then we are not a right or a discretionary decision, but an obligation arising from our elementary oaths of office to express our views and to make it through the vote. So if you're worried about the spread of the virus, use the dissociation virtues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1160	Thank you. The negotiations are over. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 328. But since the Isamaa Group and the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia have proposed to reject the law amending the Aliens Act at first reading, I will put this proposal to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Isamaa to reject the draft law amending the Aliens Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 328. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1161	30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 57 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported and the draft remains in the process. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 24 March at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the ninth item on today's agenda and we will move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1162	Today's 10th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please waitress Jaak Aabi, Minister of State Administration!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-10_U1163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It's about time we got into the law on the amendment of the State Property Act. I will introduce you to the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is a draft that will help us take an important step towards a more open, transparent and business-friendly digital state. The world we live in today is intertwined with information technology and is developing rapidly. Therefore, our legal space must also keep pace with important technological developments. This bill brings one key law, the State Assets Act, into line with the need that the modern information society presents to us. I will immediately get to the more important point and explain what is the need to amend the law. Today, we are in a situation where the current state property law is perfectly suited to the organisation of state-owned movable and immovable property relations. Today, however, in addition to physical assets, the state still owns many important digital assets, much of which is software, such as our numerous information systems, applications, web frameworks and their components. There are no specific provisions in the current law on the organisation of legal relations with regard to digital property and the same provisions governing the physical world must apply. Since software and physical assets are different in nature, the application of the provisions for regulating the physical world to software has resulted in a great deal of time, clumsy procedures and legal uncertainty in recent years. As a rule, physical property can only be used in one place at a time, whereas the same source code of software can be digitally shared in virtually unlimited terms, regardless of location, whereas its use between several parties does not result in the depreciation and depreciation of the property, as is typically the case for movable and immovable property. It cannot be said that the state's software has not yet been made public at all. However, this has been done, with the launch in 2019 of a code repository for publicly accessible e-state co-operation and software recovery, which has also been actively implemented by several institutions, to make it convenient. I've been looking at this code repository page, and at the moment there are, as far as I know, about 90 software solutions for public use. In practice, however, it has become clear that the institutions' understanding of the possibility and means of disclosure of software is very different and uneven. At the same time, many codes have already been used and institutions wishing to do so have repeatedly expressed their wish that there should be a clear legal basis and procedure for the disclosure of software. Once the legislative amendment enters into force, the long-awaited clarity will be created, with the effect that we hope to see much more of the public-private joint developments and the disclosure of the software code. When speaking about the private sector, it is also worth mentioning that Estonia's Information Technology and Telecommunications Union, which brings together IT companies, has been constantly consulted during the preparation of the change concerning the disclosure of state software. The Union has expressed its strong support for the draft insofar as it creates opportunities for the operators of the IT sector to re-use the source code, which has so far often been excluded from public procurement practice. Indeed, in the course of procurement, the company is often not given rights to the software source code to allow it to be re-used. By amending the law, however, we create the possibility for public authorities to allow such re-use. Public disclosure of state software also allows the provision of improvements to the solutions used by the state and the development of completely new products and services. Thus, the State Assets Act will be supplemented by a new separate section which will enable public authorities to make the source code of the software available to the public. Limitations and conditions under which the use of national software is not authorised shall be provided. There are also grounds for the simultaneous use of state software by several state property managers. Disclosure of the source code of the national software does not entail a significant additional workload for public authorities. The draft does not create more bureaucracy, nor does it create mechanisms for filing, settling and contesting applications in any form. The software shall be made available to the public for use on a free-will, uniform and non-discriminatory basis by the sovereign. It also mitigates the risks of State aid and the risks of recovery of funds requested from the European Union's Structural Funds. There is no selective or anti-competitive effect and the software is made available to the public for unlimited and free of charge. If a sovereign asset manager decides to disclose state software, it shall do so on the basis of the licence terms of its choice. In particular, non-exclusive, widely used standard licences shall be used. However, the draft also sets out restrictions and conditions under which the use of national software is not granted, for example where there is a risk to national cyber security, public order or security. This is a mandatory prerequisite that a sovereign asset manager must take into account, analyse and reach a conclusion on the existence or absence of potential adverse effects before considering granting state software to the public. Before publication, the above criteria are also assessed by the State Information System Authority, which manages the code repository. In addition to the disclosure of the software code, the draft also facilitates the possibility of sharing software between public authorities themselves. The current law provides that if two sovereigns wish to use the same state assets, one sovereign must transfer the state assets to another institution. However, as I mentioned earlier, this is irrelevant to software. The same source software can mostly be used by both institutions at the same time without disturbing either. As you can imagine, such provisions for regulating physical property, which must now be applied to software, have resulted in a considerable amount of cumbersome bureaucracy. Therefore, the present draft provides for a simple procedure based on an agreement between two state assets managers instead of the current transfer procedure in the case of software. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! To conclude, once again, with this bill, we are taking an important step towards a more transparent, simpler and logical digital state. I would like your support for the bill. Thank you!
