ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 12th working week of the V plenary session. Now that anyone has a wish, there is an opportunity to hand over drafts and inquiries. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U2	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the seven members of the Isamaa Group, Mr Raivo Tamme, Mr Tarmo Kruusimäe, Mr Andres Metsoja, Mr Mikhail Lotman, Mr Üllar Saaremäe, Mr Priit Sibula and myself, the inquiry will be handed over to the Prime Minister. The inquiry concerns the process of ratifying the Estonian-Russian border treaty. As we know, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has already actively expressed the opinion on several occasions that the Republic of Estonia should now take a unilateral initiative to continue the process of ratifying the Estonian-Russian border treaty. The heirs have a question of why this is needed right now, when the relations between the European Union and Russia are at a low point, when Russia is very aggressive at its borders, when Russian leading politicians until the Minister of Foreign Affairs have confirmed that they do not accept the principle of legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and do not wish to mention the Tartu Peace Treaty in the border agreement, have dictated foreign policy doctrines to Estonia, said that Estonia must stop the Russophobic policy, end human rights violations, violations of minority rights in Estonia and so on. We do not understand why in this situation Estonia is actively demonstrating a unilateral initiative in order to proceed with the ratification of the border treaty. And we have a deep concern whether this process will not turn out to be in the path of legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia. We therefore submit an inquiry to the Prime Minister. We want to know whether this is a foreign minister's own initiative or whether it is a priority for the whole government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U3	No more wishes. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, and the Management Board will of course decide further in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now please check your presence!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U4	90 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U5	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Riina Sikkut, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Jaanus Karilaidi, Helmen Küti, Siret Kotka, Martin Repinski and Jaak White's draft law amending the Income Tax Act. In the name of the initiators, the Oudekki Loone will make a presentation. Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U6	[[Remote connection]] Hi! I hope I can hear and see now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U7	Yeah, I'm fine. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U8	Very good! The aim of this draft is, in particular, to facilitate the social partners' more effective care for health and well-being by eliminating double taxation for the respective support of trade unions and, in the case of businesses, by reducing red tape and increasing flexibility for investment in health at work. This bill was born under the leadership of the Trade Union Support Group. All its initiators are members of the Trade Union Support Group. Indeed, the primary and bearing point is that trade unions can pay benefits to their members in the event of illness and loss of employment at a broader level than is currently the case. Trade unions are one of the most important public benefit organisations, one of the three collective types to which our constitution grants special rights, raising its private space to the public. Other such collectives within the meaning of the Constitution are business organisations and also family. Throughout the past year, we consulted MEPs from different political parties, interest groups and representatives of the Ministry of Finance on this draft. During these meetings, as usual, the bill improved. Two important principles were added. Firstly, to alleviate trade union taxation or to find that there is some injustice, such as double taxation, the taxation of businesses should also be relaxed in terms of equality. Then the draft would not be in the interest of a single clear type of organisation, but would cover more broadly all the aspects of staff welfare. In this context, the draft introduced changes to the rules on the taxation of occupational health costs. In the hall, a number of people listen to this overview, who pointed out that yes, that trade unions are a special organisation and a constitutional organisation, but in fact very many non-profit organisations operate in the public interest. And double taxation is not only about trade unions, and it is not only about trade unions, but about all non-profit organisations. It is also a general principle of the Estonian legal order, so that we can double tax as little as possible. As a result, the wording turned out to be that the draft did not only mention trade unions who would grant their members support at the expense of membership fees, but all non-profit organisations. This is undoubtedly a divisible position. Now I'm going to go a little bit more closely to what we're talking about when we start discussing this. Firstly, non-profit organisations would be able to pay their members benefits exempt from income tax. What's the principle? Gifts received from a natural person in Estonia shall not be taxed. And they won't be taxed if the gift is somehow made by association. If we want to give support in the form of a gift, for example, we want to help a friend in trouble, we want to give her a birthday present, we put a pot on the table, everyone puts money in it, and then we hand this pot over to our friend, it will not be taxed. As soon as the institution comes between it in the form of a non-profit organisation, when it is no longer simply a free agreement, the money collected in this way becomes a revenue. For example, when we look at trade unions, trade union donations pay income tax. But if I pay the tax on the money I put in that pot, and then we take the money and we give it back to some of the very people who put it in the pot, it's essentially the same thing: natural persons give gifts to other natural persons. In the current situation, these benefits, based on membership income, would mean that a person would have to pay double income tax on this money. This bill exempts from income tax those subsidies that come from membership income. That is to say, the contributions paid by the self-employed members of non-profit organisations whose income is subject to income tax. Its control is more or less such that the amount that can be paid for grants to natural persons cannot exceed the amount collected from natural persons for membership. Naturally, it is paid to natural persons. This amendment will take double taxation from this specific group. It is very difficult to say how many other non-profit organisations are paying this kind of grants. There are some. Rather, such subsidies are made informally, members have a pot somewhere where money is put. Trade unions pay more. On average, trade unions collect all trade unions, which in Estonia have a total membership fee of 3 to 4 million euros and, according to their own estimates, 15 to 20% will go into grants. This means that the total tax on income received by the State is EUR 160000, from 4 million to 20% of the subsidies. Perhaps, if some smaller NPOs are taken into account, it is still not obvious that the budgetary impact would be very much higher than about EUR 200000, which is actually a very small amount for the state budget. But for those who receive benefits, for those who lose their jobs, for those who have health problems, this is very important. And in fact, perhaps the state's savings would be even greater because of this, because many other state services these people will not have to ask if their own association, their own associates, are already helping them. The following points concern undertakings: On the one hand, it will make it more flexible if businesses invest in health at work. At present, these occupational health costs are clearly defined in the Health and Safety at Work Act, which increases the bureaucracy involved. We propose that we formulate the cost of occupational health care related to entrepreneurship directly in the Income Tax Act and make it open. In the case of entrepreneurship, all reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the employer to create a safe working environment for health and, of course, to ensure health and safety requirements, including to fulfil the obligations set out in the Health and Safety at Work Act, are exempt from tax. At the same time, we leave the list open so that if new and unexpected costs arise, the company can do them more calmly. After all, our idea has been a safe working environment, not to fill out certain bureaucratic papers. However, these costs must be reasonable and necessary. The assessment of its reasonableness and necessity is, in fact, a relatively effective procedure within the tax administration. We are slightly improving the legal clarity of the relationship between the terms'special advantage' and 'business-related costs'. It is purely such a point of legal clarity, not so substantive. The last important point in substance is that, if, under the current law, an undertaking receives an exemption from expenditure to promote the health of workers with a limit of EUR 100 per employee per quarter, we propose that it be EUR 400 per year. This is precisely because it has been shown that the costs of health promotion measures vary between different types of work. It seems that, for some reason, you have more or less these quarterly costs for office workers, but for physical workers, more of these one-off amounts are needed to implement health promotion measures. At the same time, it reduces the administrative burden and increases flexibility according to what is needed in a particular enterprise according to the profiles of individual employees. In the current draft, we have formulated the law to apply retroactively from 2020. It is partly chosen because it starts with a corona crisis. In the context of the Coronary Crisis, people began to need more support, especially those related to health promotion. But since we have been discussing this bill here for a year, in the meantime, it has been a year, since this bill becomes a law, since it could become a law, it is, of course, also a matter of negotiation. Whether we choose this solution, that it really applies from the beginning of the corona crisis, or whether we choose another moment - this is all the subject of debate. The aim of today's first reading is to confirm that we can discuss such changes, but perhaps they could be better formulated. Perhaps there are some other tax-related problems that are important to businesses or trade unions. If dear fellow Members see these problems in Parliament, then the initiators will certainly only be pleased if we make the taxation of our working environment even clearer and even better. I hope we will proceed with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U9	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Begin Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If you look well, you would find a lot of elements of injustice in the tax system. Let me give you an example: the Cancer Treatment Fund. They collect donations from people and buy medicines that save the lives of cancer patients that the state does not allow to obtain through health insurance. At the same time, the state collects tax revenue from the purchase of these medicines. Last year, for example, it was EUR 120000, which is 5 to 6 times as much as the seafarers' trade union in your example. I ask: is it fair that trade unions with lobby groups in the Riigikogu receive such tax relief, but the Cancer Treatment Fund does not receive such relief?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U11	Thank you. Yes, the arguments put forward are that there are many non-profit organisations that actually operate in the public interest and also share grants, and that they should be treated in the same way. That is why this bill does not mention the separate trade unions as an article of the law, but all non-profit organisations. Indeed, this double taxation applies in the same way to all non-profit organisations. If you ask your members for a membership fee and pay benefits with this money, it will apply to everyone who distributes such grants. And indeed, I am convinced that the country could review its cancer treatment policy as well as, in general, the health policy and the prevention of diseases considerably more money. There is certainly a need to review all possible exemptions in cases where citizens have indeed taken up the solution of problems, because the state has somehow failed to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U12	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U13	Thank you. My question is a follow-up to Aivar Sõerdi's question. I understand that the Cancer Treatment Fund and other such organisations do not come under this bill and do not benefit from the tax distinctions or advantages that have been designed here. But do public organisations such as universities go down here? And do political parties, as NGOs, go under this regulation? I see that there is also a proposal that gifts from a natural person are not taxed, etc. I've lost track of that introduction. To whom, however, and for what expenditure does this regulation extend? Can you open it exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U14	First of all, the first part of the question about such highly dignified organisations, such as the Cancer Treatment Fund and many other non-profit organisations. In fact, there is a list of income tax incentives in Estonia, where several such organisations can belong. Our country isn't quite unfair either. But certainly, as I said, if we can see that there are still such solidarity among citizens' organisations, we do not mind if we look at the text in the next reading. Who do they belong to? In the current wording...... we are out...... that it is non-profit organisations as citizens' solidarity organisations to help each other, together with something to develop. [[The connection's breaking up.]] And yes, according to the current wording, political parties belong there. But I repeat: to the extent that this is due to membership fees, not to the extent that this is due, for example, to the state budget, because this money is not a membership fee. However, contributions from political party membership fees to members of a political party, such as funeral allowances, would not be taxed in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U15	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question concerning the allowance paid by non-profit organisations to their self-employed members on account of the membership tax on natural persons. I compared this proposal with the law of non-profit organisations. § 1 (2) provides that the income of an NGO may only be used to achieve its statutory objectives and that the NGO may not distribute profits among its members. The only point that governs the payment of any kind here is § 281 "Remuneration of a Member of the Board'. In my opinion, this amendment is contrary to the law. Can you give me a reference on the basis of which section, paragraph and paragraph of the law of a non-profit organisation can make this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U17	Firstly, we are talking about subsidies here. It is not a question of profit. We are talking about subsidies, not any profit sharing or remuneration. Grants are, in fact, a very clear concept. Indeed, they must be consistent with the objectives of the Statute. Support for workers is certainly a statutory objective for trade unions, but also for members of political parties. The grant is not a reward for the work, it is not a reward for the service provided, it is not a reward for the achievement. The prize would be a prize for achievement. The non-profit association can set the conditions and procedure for the payment of the aid , but this procedure does not have to be implemented by law. So the benefits are not-for-profit organisations have the right to pay, including their members.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U18	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U19	Yeah, I have a very specific question. Am I correct to understand that membership and donations are treated differently in this law? If this is not the case, if it is only the money received in the form of membership fees, is it the case that the costs are included in this regulation, but if there are contributions, they are not? Is that how this bill is regulated? Because NGOs have membership fees as well as donation money. The same applies, of course, to other organisations, such as theatres or universities or others. You can donate to everyone, and they also have the relevant funds, such as the Children's Fund or the Cancer Treatment Fund, which we were talking about. So the membership fees and donations are treated differently according to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U20	At the moment, membership taxes have really been dealt with here, precisely in the sense that they are taxed on income tax and there is a problem of double taxation. But in itself it turned out to be very important. I think we could also review all the issues related to donations between the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U21	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You still didn't answer my question, and you started talking about this amendment to the law. The question is, NGO... Well, you said it was okay to pay the employees' allowance, didn't you? It is not a question of employees at present; it is a question of members. At present, the bill states that it is possible to pay support to its natural members on the account of membership fees. Don't confuse two definitions! I still maintain that this amendment to the law is contrary to the law on non-profit organisations. And now, for the second time, let's not argue about this other matter right now, which provision of the NGO Act allows self-employed members to receive support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U23	Thank you. In our opinion, the current NGO law allows this. But thank you very much for that observation. I think that this particular formation we can clarify and improve between the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U24	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U25	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm reading the explanatory statement here, and I'm having some questions. One question arises when I read about maintaining sports facilities, rehabilitation services and all sorts of other things. Can a creative approach not lead to this support becoming a paycheck? And secondly, I have a question that there was talk about associations, donations, gifts, including self-employed gifts and donations. How big could these gifts be? Could self-employed people give a million euros to a party, for example, and that would be okay if the party could distribute it to its members?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U26	Thank you. Sport facilities shall be included in the share of expenditure on health promotion for workers and shall be limited to EUR 400 per year. Could this EUR 400 per year become such an extra, a salary? The experience to date is.. now this amount is 100 euros per quarter, that this problem has not risen very much. And that's why there's an upper limit. But also, surely, if we go ahead with this, we can ask the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance once again for an assessment of how it has worked. There have been no complaints from employees so far. Now, as far as the second question is concerned, we are talking about membership fees for natural persons. The membership fees are basically equal. And if the membership fee is one million in the NGO, then indeed, yes... But I doubt it. Then it changes again because we have some very rich people who come together, put all a million euros on the table and distribute it. Well, they might as well put it on the table right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U27	Aivar Sõerd. Sorry, Aivar, wait!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U28	But it's straight... what's going on. [[The connection's breaking up.]] This is still the reason why we are talking about membership contributions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U29	Okay, now we've got the answer. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U30	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm still going on with the Cancer Treatment Fund. Your answer to my question is confusing. It's like you said that there's this list of non-profits with income tax benefits, etc., and it's like it's going to be extended to the Cancer Treatment Fund. The point is that, in the case of the Cancer Treatment Fund, my question was not about the income tax that your draft deals with, but it is about VAT. In fact, people collect donations and the cancer fund buys medicines that the health insurance system does not allow, but the state also collects VAT on these medicines. There are many elements of this injustice in the tax system; I can also give you examples of double taxation in the tax system. I ask that if the trade unions have such a support group in the Riigikogu, but the Cancer Treatment Fund must pay much higher amounts of tax collected...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U31	Aivar, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U32	... donating money to buy medicines, then whether it's fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U33	I am very much in favour of the Estonian state making this choice so that we do not charge VAT on medicines, particularly those that are very important. Certainly, when we are discussing a country's budgetary strategy, that is one issue that we could discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U34	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U35	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Good morning. I don't even know why... [[The connection's breaking up.]] But I wanted to ask you that if there is one company with 100 employees and an association of these employees is made, one of the 100 employees is the entrepreneur himself, and the membership fee is free, it could be zero euros, but it could also be paid EUR 40000 a membership fee. Can this company pay EUR 40000 a membership fee and then apply for a tax exemption on the health and sports costs of 99 members of the association, which is EUR 400 per person per year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U36	I heard that question a little bad. However, as far as expenditure to promote workers' health is concerned, this exemption already exists. The exemption shall be limited to EUR 100 per quarter. Here we only make this small change to make it 400 euros a year. The amount will remain the same, but spending it over the year will be more flexible. You can also make a cost of EUR 400 at once to promote the health of an employee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U37	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U38	Thank you very much. I want to clarify my question a little bit. How is it that we talk about different concepts? We're talking about membership fees, and it's really okay. And I am not saying at all that double taxation is a good thing that this law itself is good. But we're also talking about gifts, and we're talking about donations, these are a little bit of other stuff. And we have had times when coaches, for example, have been the ones who have been paid salaries in the form of grants and deprived them of social guarantees. There's no way I'd like to think that there's a good law in mind, but to interpret someone's suffering from it. It was just a comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U39	Thank you. That is certainly a very important remark, and I thank everyone who has raised the issue of donations. Surely we could also review it between the first reading and the second reading so that such abuses do not occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U40	Annely Akkermann, let's try. Maybe the connection's better now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U41	Thank you very much. I'll ask the other half again. In the case of an enterprise with employees of... EUR... million, could there be a number of this... income tax... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U42	I realized that if we were to make some kind of non-profit with one company's employees and entrepreneurs as a natural person, yes, if the company pays a million euros there, then as a natural person for this million euros, it has already paid income tax and then, indeed, for the second time, it would not have to pay tax on it. It cannot put it there as a company, it does not allow, like, the sale of a company's income, but if, for example, the company has already withdrawn that income as dividends, the tax has already been paid on these dividends and, of course, it should not have to pay the tax for a second time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U43	No further questions. Thank you. We will now also hear the presentation by Mr Savisaar, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, of the lead committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U44	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft on 13 April. The draft was also sent to the Government of the Republic to give an opinion, but the Government of the Republic, then in its previous composition, decided not to give an opinion. When we come to the presentation of this draft, Oudekki Loone, the representative of the initiators of the draft, also presented it to the Commission, and he also answered the questions of the members of the committee. I guess these questions were largely similar to what sounded like here. I would like to highlight some of the views expressed by Lemmi Oro, the representative of the Ministry of Finance. In fact, this double taxation approach, which is set out in the draft, does not go under double taxation in tax theory. Double taxation is defined in a slightly different way. However, he agreed that maybe § 32 of the Income Tax Act, which refers to § 13 (1) of the Health and Safety at Work Act, has become a little narrow in practical life and that a specific reference to this section should perhaps be reviewed in the future. Jürgen Ligi, Member of the Commission, expressed the opinion that the public interest is currently clearly sought in non-profit organisations operating in private interests and that the activities of non-profit organisations are such that, by tax regulation, they receive a tax credit on condition that they serve society and not their members. At the end of this debate, the Commission decided by consensus that this draft could be discussed in this large Chamber today. The Commission did not shape its position on this draft and leaves it to the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U45	You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U46	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am quite surprised how the Committee on Monetary Affairs could not now form a position. But as a football fan, I ask that sports facilities and all that kind of good... Would football clubs be a winch or kosher or what they say about it, according to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U47	Thank you, good Tarmo! This bill is about all non-profit organisations. If the football club is registered as a non-profit association, yes, everything that is offered here would also apply to the football club.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U48	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U49	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I'd like to know the background, too. Why did neither the government nor the Committee on Monetary Affairs give an opinion on such a draft? Is there some kind of secret arrangement and some other game behind this? The obligation to make a decision or to give an opinion is, as it were, rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U50	Thank you. This is because the subject itself is important and some kind of change is likely to be needed. But that maybe not quite in the form that this bill now proposes. However, these debates could be held in the framework of the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U51	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U52	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Here's the question. The Ministry of Finance has good and good specialists who can calculate everything. Is there some kind of calculation, is it going to be cheaper for us as a country now, or is it going to be minus, given all the pros?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U53	Thank you. However, this calculation shows that if we stop asking for income tax in any part, we will make an exception, then clearly there will be less income tax. So this is a clearly negative amendment in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U54	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U55	Good manager! Good waitress! Still, that last question would continue. The government usually has clear positions and the Committee on Monetary Affairs also has clear positions. You have just said that this is an important issue and should leave the hall with the right to decide on it. But still, why are the Government of the Republic and the Monetary Commission now showing that they are powerless? Is it so important and so big a problem that neither the Government of the Republic nor the Committee on Monetary Affairs can have enough of its own mind to turn to a large hall, or is there something else behind that has not been said?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U56	Thank you. When we talk about the Government of the Republic, the opinion was to be given by the previous composition of the Government, and there was really no wish to shape this position. I was not involved in this debate, I cannot say for what reasons this was done at the time. However, the Government of the Republic has the right to leave the opinion on the drafts unpublished. The Committee on Monetary Affairs really discussed this issue. The issue of double taxation is important, it needs to be discussed. However, it is not quite clear whether to amend the law precisely in the wording that is being proposed here. However, this bill can certainly be supplemented in such a way that all bottlenecks can be resolved. There have also been a wide variety of non-profit organisations that have similar problems, whether it is the same cancer treatment fund or other non-profit organisations, where the funds for the contributions of natural persons are paid to natural persons and in this case they really have to pay income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U57	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. The first word would be Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a rule, the Fatherland Party supports a reduction in the tax burden. We have repeatedly initiated such drafts, both successfully, sometimes less successfully, in the coalition, depending on the coalition partners and also in the opposition, successfully and less successfully. Perhaps when we are in the opposition, our proposals are even more taken into account. However, this is a draft, which is not a good draft. I am not going to fall into the history of this whole subject, which is very long. The subject itself is actually important. I will also not go into details as to why we have a list of NGOs that have been granted tax incentives and why it is currently 100 euros per quarter, not 400 euros per year, etc. These disputes were held here when the existing regulation was introduced. There's a lot of details. But the biggest drawback of this bill is that it would create legal confusion. This would create additional injustice and unequal treatment between non-profit institutions and between non-profit institutions. And it is not clear, frankly, that there is a line between membership and donations, which is often a question of formalisation. This bill is not ripe for discussion in the Riigikogu so seriously that it should be adopted as a law. All the more so since we have heard here in today's debate that the Government of the Republic has failed to give its opinion. This means that the Government of the Republic is not unambiguously supporting this bill. We do not even know whether the government supports or opposes the position of the Government of the Republic. And now it also turns out that the lead committee, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has failed to give its position. I don't know what it is: either it supports or it doesn't support it. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission said that the adoption of the draft is not the aim. The aim is debate, debate on this subject. There are several forms of discussion in the Riigikogu, starting with an important national issue and ending with all other possibilities. The Commission still has a particularly broad range of options to address issues not in the form of a draft procedure. So bring here a subject in the form of a bill, which is important, but what you could just discuss is not the right format. As a draft, it should come to second reading and be passed as a law. The main reason is still the very poor quality of this draft: there would be injustice and inequality. Therefore, the Isamaa Group proposes to reject 306 SEs at first reading and I call on you to proceed with this. I hope that this will also be the result of a coalition party, the Reform Party, which, according to its own words, has always been against the tax distinctions, especially those which we are currently discussing, which are causing injustice. I hope they have not changed with the Centre Party in power to the unknown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U59	On behalf of the Central Party Group, Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U60	Thank you. I would like to stress that this bill will increase justice in our society. This confirms, on the one hand, liberally that if people, if they are employees or entrepreneurs, take the initiative to help each other in difficult times and come up with good solutions to make our society better, then the state should facilitate it. It is a bill that makes it easier for all people to function in society. On the other hand, it is a bill that makes our society more solidarityable. People come together and give their own kind a hand in trouble. This has been a very important fundamental principle of life in Estonia all along: on the one hand, to show solidarity and, on the other, to recognise personal initiative. Here I thank all those who participated in today's debate and referred to possible broader issues, made important comments which should certainly be taken into account, and also pointed to other possible injustices that have to be resolved without doubt. We are talking about paying income tax now, but if, in the context of this law, there is still injustice, then of course, the state will have to deal with everything. I am very pleased that, especially during the previous government, there was a very good cooperation in drafting this draft with the Ministry of Finance, who helped drafters with both information and certain calculations and discussions. Roundtables were also put in place with the trade union, which is indeed the biggest payer of support today. But there are certainly still ways to solve these problems. One way is to recognise once again the principle of non-taxation of trade union membership. This would certainly solve the trade union problem, but on the other hand, perhaps other non-profit organisations would leave more problematic situations. But in this sense, our draft today's proposal will certainly increase justice. Once again, all the important issues raised today must certainly be discussed during the first and second readings. This bill can certainly be improved and formulated even better. I believe that no one has any doubt that, in a situation where an entrepreneur wants to contribute to a better working environment, he wants to contribute to the health of workers, and in a situation where workers want to help each other in the event of a loss of work, in the event of a deterioration of health, all other possible forms of non-profit cooperation in the same way, the state should be facilitated. I hope we agree on that. And if we agree on this, I propose that we move forward with this bill and make it so that, indeed, every force should be liberal, be it conservative, be it socialist, see that he can recognise and support it. It is finally a question of the well-being and health of our people and the effective support of our labour market. The Centre Party will certainly support the continuation of this draft procedure today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U61	There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. We have received a proposal from the Isamaa Group to reject draft 306. We have to vote on this. Ladies and gentlemen, I vote on the proposal of the Isamaa Group to reject the Bill 306 of Amendment to the Income Tax Act initiated by the Members of the Riigikogu, Oudekki Lone, Lauri Läänemets, Riina Sikkut, Marika Tuus-Laul, Jaanus Karilaidi, Helmen Küti, Siret Kotka, Martin Repinski and Jaak Valge. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U62	17 voted in favour of rejection, 36 members of the Riigikogu were against. The proposal was not supported, which means that the first reading has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 May. The debate on the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U63	Let's move on to the second item. First reading of the draft law amending the law on party law and enforcement procedure (321 SE) initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. The opening statement is from a member of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the 321 Social Democrats' draft. This is a very important draft because it deals with the cornerstone of our common social organisation, namely the integrity and transparency of a democratic political system. Fair democratic competition between political parties and politicians is a prerequisite for democracy to function. Of course, political corruption, which aims to create an unfair and illegal advantage for the party in elections, erodes the public's confidence in the political system. But it is trust, the confidence of citizens in their political system, that the democratic organisation of society is based on the notion that the elected politicians of the people exercise state power in the interests of the people, not in private interests, not in the interests of a few entrepreneurs or groups of society, but in the interests of the whole society. Here it is quite appropriate to quote Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, who has said that democracy is even damaged by the impression that good decisions can be bought or influenced by money. During the 30 years that Estonia has once again had independence, the Estonian political system has undoubtedly evolved in a much more transparent and honest way. Compared to many of our fellow fates, we can be proud that we do not have political corruption to the extent that we do in another country. But on the other hand, there's still work to be done. We can see that the sanctions and rules so far have not been effective enough, as some parties have continued to ask for and receive illegal money. The concrete motivation for this draft was this January event, which can be considered the midwife of the current government union, when leading politicians of the Central Party and the EKRE received suspicion of crime related to corruption at the highest level of the executive power of the Republic of Estonia. Of course, the mills of the judicial and law enforcement authorities are doing their job, hopefully they will do it quickly. However, it is clear that this event has shown us that the efforts that have been made since the mid-caps, which caused quite considerable social pressure, the whole process, the Harta 12, the public assembly, several other debates that eventually reached this hall and, as a result, the political party law significantly reformed and improved the supervisory system, have not been sufficient. We thought maybe this time was over. Turns out it's not. Consequently, it is, of course, important to use this social moment to reach the next level on these issues and to reform the transparency of the political system. The Social Democrats have already made a number of proposals to this end, specifically concerning the investigation of this corruption case, the restriction of the electoral campaign's volume, in order to remove the temptation of the parties that are here figuring in these matters to accept the secret money. And the current draft, the improvement of the system of monitoring the funding of political parties, is now before you. The specific amendments are undoubtedly of a beautiful technical nature and speaking one by one of them here would perhaps be a little too technical in the context of Parliament's debate at first reading. But I will mention the most important issues, the problem we address with this draft. It is important to note that this is not my creation. I would gladly congratulate the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties for copyright, which made a large part of the proposals in this draft to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Riigikogu in 2018, no, 2019. Here are the ideas presented by the Chancellor of Justice to Parliament as early as 2017. The role of the Socialists has been to take these ideas and to analyse them, to review them and to bring them here before us as a draft. Now, from the proposals put forward by the ICTY. We have now excluded minor changes of a very technical nature from the draft. I think that we can certainly work effectively with both the Commission and the Ministry of Justice between readings in order to harmonise concepts. In the context of this draft, we have mainly dealt with the issue of party funding. But there are also, as we know, rules in the party law concerning individual candidates, electoral alliances, etc. The Commission has rightly pointed out that there is a need for some harmonisation of definitions and regulations in this law. It's not today. It is beautifully poor in our party law in a textual sense or in such a legal whole. But we are part of it, these blocks have now removed from this debate, based, of course, on the principle of purpose, on the fact that the highest risk relates to the issues of party funding and they also have the greatest impact. If an individual candidate in the next local elections, I don't know, in the city of Narva or somewhere else gets a forbidden donation, then no doubt it will affect local democracy, but, as has been said, we have a large elephant in the middle of the hall, it still concerns political parties' finances, which, of course, according to the constitutional order of Estonia, is a question of the functioning of democracy as such at the highest level of the state. Now the changes in detail. In the broadest sense, we have undertaken to make it possible for the ERJK to do its job better. We see in this draft that the ERJK will have an independent budget formation principle. Currently, the Political Financing Supervisory Commission has its own small line between the lines at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, as the Chancellery of the Riigikogu is served by the Political Financing Supervisory Commission. I know, having also been a member of the government for several years, that if the ERJK wanted some additional resources for its small budget money, then it would have to go tipa-kill to apply for it from the Ministry of Finance together with the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I think we need the budget of the ERJK to be independent of the executive. This is an important principle precisely so that, first of all, the financing is stable and, second, there is no feeling or understanding that, for example, if the ERJK has any further development or additional work to do, then the executive power, who is not interested in ensuring that the political parties' finances are better controlled, can say that no, we do not want to support it for financial reasons. The budget of the ERJK is only 117,000, that is the money within which they operate. Our proposal is to link the formation of the budget of the ERJK to the amount of money allocated to political parties, so that it represents a percentage of the amount allocated to political parties from the state budget. This would make it clear to everyone and to the ICTY that its budget is predictable, stable and independent in this way. If there were to be a government union wishing to increase the funding of political parties from the state budget, the budget of the ERJK would also increase. It has its own internal logic: the more political parties operate, the more theoretically and hypothetically the ERJK has this control object. Another important [amendment] is the ICTY's rights extension package. In fact, an increase in the budget is needed to ensure that the additional rights that we foresee can be realised in practice. They stem directly from the practice of the ICTY. One of the biggest bottlenecks is that the ERJK does not have the right to request documents, statements from third parties, etc. It is practically the case that, if we have a forbidden donation related to it, these are real cases with a third party, such as an advertising company, where there has been some sort of hustling, and the ERJK sees that there has been a hustling, there is a 'one end' where the money has moved from, and there is another end, but in the meantime it moves through a third party, then according to the law, the ERJK may request a request to this third party, but this third party, such as the advertising company, is not obliged to reply, for example, what kind of advertising, in what volume and at what prices this party has received in the elections. As a result, the efficiency of supervisory matters is significantly reduced. On this basis, we have proposed a way in which the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties would be entitled to ask for documents and to receive information from all third parties who are obliged to provide the necessary information. We have based ourselves on the principle formulated in this provision on these rights, for example, when the National Audit Office receives documents. This is very important, as the ICTY itself has said, that it is one of the cornerstones of their work that they need without doubt. Then it is a question of the context in which the ICTY's injunctions will be published. It is based on the reference of the Chancellor of Justice and has also been pointed out by the ERJK. This is a complex issue; it must be discussed without doubt. What's this about? The question is that if, during the proceedings, the ERJK finds that a party's law has been violated, for example in the context of a forbidden donation, that a donation has been denied or that there has been any other violation of the law, the ERJK will make an injunction. If this injunction is challenged in court, which is largely the case, then, of course, there will be quite a long trial. This means that, in fact, the content of the injunction, the circumstances in which the ERJK has established in its proceedings that these funds have been misplaced or illegally moved from a foreign wallet into the party's wallet, eventually revealed by a multi-annual reference, when the court battles are finally over. Why is this an important question? This is an important issue because the aim of a party and a political candidate to receive a forbidden donation or otherwise to break the rules of funding is to gain an advantage in elections. And if this advantage has been gained in the elections, for example as a parliamentary seat, then no one will take it away, even if this parliamentary seat is unfairly received. It is not the same as in another area, such as sport, that if the rehearsal cans are opened afterwards, then it will eventually be possible to lose the title. If you have gained an advantage in politics through dishonesty, this advantage can actually have a significant impact on the governance of the state, and with the knowledge that it has been unfairly achieved, nothing can be done afterwards. It is therefore important that the electorate also have this knowledge before the elections that, for example, a particular party or politician is suspected of receiving the secret money. The nuance is, of course, that, on the basis of the presumption of innocence, we must balance it with the fact that the candidate in this context too much, and perhaps afterwards, it becomes clear that there will be no unfair damage. As a result, we have offered this regulation, which I believe the Chancellor of Justice has also offered, according to my memory, that the candidate or political force will be able to add immediately an objection to the precept of the ERJK, with an explanation that could reduce the barrage in this case. The other major changes relate, in the same way or in the same way, to the financial consequences of the prohibited donation. First, what happens when a forbidden donation is obtained, for example, a party has received a forbidden donation. In that case, the money will now be returned to the donor. The ERJK has believed, and we also believe, that it would actually be preventively important to transfer this donation to the state budget rather than return it to the donor. Well, that's not a very big sanction. If we get caught, we'll give you your money back. In this case, this money could be automatically transferred to the state budget. If the injunctions are not complied with, which has obviously been a serious problem for the Centre Party, then the sanction is theoretically in the law, but it is not applicable. We have provided for a mechanism in which, for example, a legally enforceable demand for coercive money will operate, as well as a solution for legal clarity in what way, to what extent, it is possible to reduce the state budget funding of political parties, in order to force them to comply with these rules. We have a solution for this, as proposed by the ICTY. And lastly, this is, indeed, the Socialist proposal to tighten the sanction is what to do with the signs of relapsing political corruption in a situation where we really see that the party has already been convicted once in connection with the adoption of a large amount of secret money, but it will continue to do so. Here we have proposed that the proscribed donation maker and the party that accepted this donation, who has been criminally sanctioned for violating their funding rules, should not receive donations for three years after that, and donators should not make donations. It will, of course, also have a basic preventive effect in order to prevent such a thing in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U65	There are questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U66	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Glad to hear you were talking from your mother-in-law's closet. Ten years ago, the prosecutor's office ended this reform party's black funding story miraculously because of the case in the mother-in-law's locker. But the main figure who talked about it was Silver Meikar, who is currently a member of the Social Democrats, and the ERJK is largely under the control of good colleagues. Have you discussed this subject in greater detail? I think it'd be interesting for a lot of people, and for me, too. You have the best inside information. Why hasn't this been discussed in depth? One day there was 200,000 cash in one of her mother-in-law's closets, another was gold and silver, and what was there was a currency, even nearly 200,000 kroons at the time, but everything was hung up and miraculously. So please speak, dear Evgeny.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U67	Thank you, dear Peter! First of all, the ERJK is not under the control of the SOC, so that the public does not get the wrong impression. The Political Financing Monitoring Committee works on a collegial basis, with representatives of political parties. Yes, a member of the Social Democrats is also there, but the EKRE has also sent a representative there like other parties. In addition, there are representatives from the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice. In this context, however, it is a collegial and rather balanced body. True, the chairman of the ICTY has been a social democrat for some time, but no, that does not mean that the Social Democrats control this committee. The Commission's work, of course, is based not only on collegiality but also on law, which means, among other things, that its work is done impartially and professionally. As regards the criminal case that you referred to, which did not really go beyond the prosecutor's office at the time, I think that at the time that the decision was made, there was one positive thing: the prosecutor's office decided which, of course, the parties involved in the Reform Party did not like to have a detailed summary of the proceedings of the prosecutor's office, so that the public would be able to examine these facts. If I remember correctly, it was a long time ago, then at the time, the prosecutor explained that the case was closed by the fact that the court would have faced a word-to-word situation where it was no longer possible to collect further evidence afterwards. I have to say that, since this case, both the ERJK, who has also been granted additional rights (this same case was actually a very big boost for this), and the law enforcement authorities, I think, have been more proactive in the fight against political corruption, can be said. In this sense, I think that the biggest impact of this case on Estonia's political culture and system was that we were able to make the necessary changes. I hope that the fresh corruption things that pushed the birth of this government will give this next impetus and we will patch up the holes that are obviously still in this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U68	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U69	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, I have to ironically say, this whole bill is a corrupt thing. Continuing from where Peter Ernits ended: you essentially want your own party members, even if some of them have stopped their membership, to have more pay, more power, more influence. I don't know what else you want. This whole thing smells like corruption. And then you come here to talk about EKRE high-level corruption, being essentially a party funded by your father. So, pick, Evgeni Ossinovski, a few words. Don't spit them out the way they come out of the throat. So how much more do you want to get for those Liisa Oviir and Kaarel Tarand, specifically, how much do you want to get for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U70	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I understand your nervousness. I guess that Kersti Kracht thing is probably gonna come up with a lot of stinky stuff in the next few years. So the preventative attack that everything is a conspiracy against you will be stylish for your nationalist populist politicians. As far as the specific question is concerned, we have foreseen the following in this draft. This is in section 1 point 8 and it reads in this draft: "The Commission for the supervision of the financing of the departments has an independent budget. The state budget allocates at least 5% of the amount allocated to political parties from the state budget to the Commission's operational expenditure each year. "This draft does not impose it . and I think it is an important and principled question of the manner in which the ERJK uses its own budget. I think it should be the decision of the ICTY to use its budget to carry out the tasks arising from this law. The Palette of these tasks is expanding, as I have already said. In this context, most of this additional cost (I have also talked to the ERJK) would certainly go to expert analyses, to the legal advice they need in different courts when their workload is increasing. So we have not dealt with this in any debate and, as far as I know, it has not been dealt with anywhere in the committees (but the rapporteur for the Commission can be specified), as if the question were, for example, the salaries of the members of the Commission, whether you or our party. There hasn't been any complaining. What a question it has been that resources are insufficient to order, for example, expertise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U71	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Although the anti-corruption action plan adopted by the government does not include political corruption as an objective, the Minister of Justice has said that he has this plan and that the intention to develop it should be completed in the autumn. My question is two-part. Is there any way this bill should stand by because there are big plans being made at the Ministry of Justice, or are these things not related to each other in this form? The second part of the question is that there will be local elections and maybe you could open up the importance of this draft in the context of future elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U73	Well, how do I say... From the experience of my rather significant member of the government, I can say that it has rarely happened that the intention to develop is done in order to do something. As a rule, the intention to develop is to do nothing. Let's start with the development plan, of course it will take six months. Coordination circles, discussion circles, roundtables, conferences, all of this must, of course, be done. Only after the Ministry has received the feedback on the intention to develop can we begin to consider what kind of solution we will be dealing with. When we're done weighing this, we're gonna work out a bill. And then you can't just work out a bill. It will also, of course, take time, requires round tables, conferences, working groups. When the draft is ready, it will, of course, have to be coordinated at government level, at least on two laps. There have been dozens of political initiatives that have been killed by the book of Good Lawmaking simply to do nothing. Individual plans for the development of very large legislative packages, I do not know, the reform of the Penal Code and so on, are, of course, justified when we are talking about the long-term, very systemic, major change that is necessary. For example, in the field of education, if we want to fundamentally change the way education runs from first to last. But when we talk about certain clear concrete changes, where there is a whole broader understanding of what alternatives to consider, then still do them, to lubricate the paper, and apologize very much, that is completely pointless. Of course, it often helps politicians if the real will, or even the coalition agreement, hasn't If we think that this government has less than two years, and when it is said that there will be a development plan in autumn, it is clear that nothing will happen until next year. Then it must be discussed, it will finally reach Parliament, it will also have to be discussed in Parliament. All the time, we're talking, and then we're gonna have to hop the election! He fell out of the proceedings. There were good thoughts, but you see, it didn't happen. I think that this is an obvious example of stagnation and unwillingness to deal with political corruption in substance and to take effective action. Unfortunately, we have seen this in the case of a new government. Here to hide behind the fact that there must be some sort of round tables and VTKs, it is not sincere, that is clear. The right thing is, of course, that in addition to this, there will be elections in the meantime. Maybe somewhere in a smaller parish, it looks like what kind of question is this, the powers of the ERJK. But let's think about the size of the campaign that is being carried out in Tallinn, for example. For example, let us look at the financial situation of Tallinn's largest party or party in power so far, i.e. the financial position of the Centre Party. It's bad, but I'd like to keep in power. As a result, the temptation to use dishonest ways is undoubtedly there, understandable. It would certainly be important here to say that this is not some new proposal that has come out of nowhere, but these are the proposals of these same institutions, the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice, the proposals of the ERJK, which have already been very much weighed out, negotiated through this joint section immediately. If any particular point is said to be not supported, let us take it out. But in fact, it should be adopted before Midsummer, so that it can be implemented immediately. That would be, frankly, the only way for the government to actually show that preventing political corruption is their priority. If we adopt an action plan and initiate an intention to develop, it does not show commitment to this issue. This shows a desire to actually avoid dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U74	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U75	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the floor. Good waitress! The Centre Party has had problems with funding over the years. That's what the ESRC has been revealing all the time. As we can see, the EKRE, at least the family leading the EKRE, seems to have something to hide, and there are a number of fears involved when the ERJK works even better. But how would you describe the overall picture you had of the committee? Is there any hope that there will still be a majority in Parliament who would like to move forward with this draft and, in principle, to increase the powers of the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties by giving the whole picture of this political funding much more transparent? Or do you see serious obstacles and problems there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U76	Thank you for your question. Firstly, the Commission rapporteur can, of course, clarify this, but I will also say a few words by the initiators. From the government's point of view, we've already talked, but I'll talk straight. With the signature of Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, the Riigikogu received a paper containing five sentences. It has been said that this is a very important issue, but the government does not support this draft. This is a priority for the government, but before it goes any further, and now I quote, 'this year the Ministry of Justice is planning to present a plan for the development that is preceded by a plan (Please note! was adopted by J. O. involving interest groups (Please note! was adopted by J. O. systematic sector analysis. " There you go! So much for government priorities. Minutes of the Commission's debate. I was not there, there was a colleague from the West Forest representing the initiators. But I've met the protocol. That was a good debate. This was a really good debate, and it seemed to me that colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs understood the need to implement this draft quickly. The Commission's decision is also, as I read here, to conclude the first reading and to continue working on this draft. That's definitely a good sign. However, as we know as experienced politicians, the leader of the Commission also has considerable opportunities to pretend to be working, but in fact to put the bill in a shelf, in a radical or in a bottom table drawer, there are several places.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U77	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U78	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good waitress! It hurts to say the word "good." I listened to your report. In a genuine bolshevist-style lie and demagoguery, you claimed that the EKRE politicians had become suspected of a crime and that it was, in fact, the motive behind this whole draft of yours for why it was introduced. But let us recall the involvement of the sots in a huge bribery and corruption scandal in Tartu, your role in corruption in the Port of Tallinn, where, according to the recommendations of your Minister Kapo, the employment contracts of the suspected leaders, the social pranking of the president with taxpayers' money, were extended by your minister, according to the recommendations of the Ministry of the Interior, by the fact that many of the criminal offences of money laundering were turned into misdemeanours, etc. When will you stop lying and pointing fingers at others?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U79	Thank you, Mr. Pier. This shit you've even published in your book, you don't have to report again here, you can write another book.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U80	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U81	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Kaja Kallas said in his speech when he was appointed that corruption was the biggest brake of development that would not allow companies and individuals playing fair games to cope. In such a situation, there is a expectation that the first steps of the government will be clearly in the direction of improving the transparency of political party funding and the corruption associated with the taking up of office of the government in some way, like leaving behind. It is very strange that yesterday, for example, the law amending the Planning Act and the law preventing unfair commercial practices in the agricultural product and food supply chain were handed over, but no real step has been taken to improve the supervision of party funding. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U82	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I have no answer to this good question why this is the case. Beautiful words from the Prime Minister without doubt. After all, the Social Democrats also granted credit to this government when the government took office. It was indeed promised to give priority to this. On this issue and, unfortunately, on a number of other issues, this priority does not appear to be out of action at the moment. But there's still time. Maybe with this bill, though, the story is that we can create this moment on this subject, the government and the Prime Minister are really pushing the pedal, and we're going to do this thing here for the summer. Then let us not give up hope, perhaps those words of the Prime Minister will remind coalition colleagues here that this really is an important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U83	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U84	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You mentioned that the resources of the ICTY are insufficient. There was certainly no shortage of resources, and this was not the case on your desk; you were deaf and blind, when Marina from Kaljuranna, as a euro ambassador, was a long news story in Channel 2, which showed how Marina Kaljurand transported her supporters to Brussels, ate, drank, and danced together. In the same paragraph, he spoke of himself as a social democrat and how he supported the social democratic view of the world. Perhaps there was a great deal of socialist propaganda. It should have been marked 'Societal Democrat content marketing' or 'The European Parliament has paid for it' or [that has paid] Marina Kaljurand, but there was nothing like that there, of course. This case should have landed on the ERJK table as well. But neither Kaarel Tarand nor Liisa Oviir...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U85	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U86	...of course didn't see it or process it. Did this fall behind your lack of resources, or did you just not want to notice such things as the Social Democrats...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U87	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U88	... as corruptly promoting your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U89	I honestly admit I have no idea of the case you're talking about. I don't know, maybe somehow it's got the wrong impression. I'm not a member of the EJC. [You asked me] why you didn't do anything. There is also your representative in the ERJK; it is a collegial body, as I said, there are representatives from all parliamentary parties and, at the same time, from independent state agencies. So whether and what procedures are being initiated, what is being done in these matters, I have never taken such an interest in their work. I think that the active politicians in Parliament and elsewhere should allow this Commission to work independently. Unfortunately, I can't comment on a particular case in detail because it's the first time I've heard about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U90	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There has already been a repeated quote from the political leaders of the Reform Party, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, who are responsible for the fight against corruption. It has been said how important this is for them, the fight against corruption and transparent funding of political parties. However, it has also been mentioned that there are no political parties mentioned in the anti-corruption action plan. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Special Committee on Corruption, the Minister of Justice also said that there is no plan to change this agenda in the near future and to complement it with the subject of political parties. My question to you is, maybe you can enlighten me: what is the Reform Party afraid of? Does the Reform Party have any awe in front of a coalition partner, or is there some big skeletons in the closet why the Reform Party doesn't act like what it says?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U92	Thank you. I can't answer that question. Mr Kivimägi will be here next, hopefully he will answer this substantive question as well, rather than saying that it was not discussed in the committee that the Reform Party is afraid of. I can't tell if it's fear. Perhaps it is rather this, but I am really only presenting here two of my hypotheses, that for a coalition partner, this issue is undoubtedly extremely uncomfortable in relation to the fact that there has been a suspicion by a leading politician, our colleague, and indeed, it is essentially about the highest level of the corruption episode. Perhaps behind the curtain we are saying that we are not doing too much of this. Maybe it's more like it. The second option is that there is simply not enough priority. As my colleague Riina Sikkut said, the law of planning and all the important things, hoo-ha. The legislative plan is still big for the country, the ministries are freaking out, they're making new drafts. And if you do not give political priority to any subject, it does not say that it is so important that this is what we want to get to Parliament in the next month and then it will also be adopted, and it will not come. It is said, however, that there is, unfortunately, no room available in the legislative plan of the Ministry of Justice for the next five years to deal with this draft. You're an experienced civil servant, you know how these things work. So maybe it's a question of lack of prioritisation. I don't know what to say, but I believe Mr. Stone Mountain can enlighten us in this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U93	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U94	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Listening to questions here gives the impression that our draft also lists the political parties that are being monitored, or the people who are not to be supervised by the ICTY. Can you confirm that we stand for the same supervision of all political parties and, if we find this in the course of the debate, of electoral alliances and individual candidates, that we do not seek or consider any distinctions to be correct? And the second question. How do you rate the activities of parties that don't want to take down this biggest growth brake? They do not want democracy to actually work. What is your assessment of such behavior?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U95	Yes, it is very regrettable, this situation is regrettable. But, as has been said, I hope that we will still be able to move forward with this bill in the coming weeks, so that we can really get a fairer playing field for local elections. But the first question. I didn't even know how to stress it, but it might be important. Here, from the questions raised by members of one political party, there may have been the impression that this draft is aimed at strengthening the supervision of the Centre Party and the EKRE politicians and their political parties. No, there is no mention of any political party in the bill. I said in my speech, and the draft explanatory memorandum mentions that the concrete events that, unfortunately, have not been up to me were the reasons for initiating this draft, indeed related to one of the members of the EKRE and one of the members of the Centre Party. This, of course, does not mean that we want to make the procedures of the ICTY optional in any way with this draft. The ERJK must have additional rights and additional money in order to prevent, impartially and effectively, the illegal financing of political parties, whatever political party it takes place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U96	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I was just listening to your explanation of motivation. Your draft explanatory memorandum states: "The concrete motivation for the draft was the suspicion of the Centre Party and the EKRE member. " So. In interpreting this, one can only say that if there had not been this suspicion, this bill would not have been born either. At the same time, § 22 of the Constitution states: "No one shall be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has entered into force. " I don't understand it right now. The Social Democrats are defending people's rights by referring at every turn to all constitutional rights: the right to life, the right to work, education, etc. Why do you trample on Article 22 of this constitution all the time, making it completely meaningless?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U98	Oh, Mr. Grünthal, you misunderstood. Of course, the purpose of this draft is not to interfere with the criminal proceedings of Kersti Kracht and Mikhail Korb; there is absolutely no intention of including the ERJK in this draft. Of course, law enforcement authorities are investigating a particular suspicion of corruption in the prosecutor's office, probably in court after that. This is in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia, including, of course, the paragraph of the Constitution, based on the presumption of innocence. The question in this context is not about the guilt or innocence of individual persons, but about the fact that, when this suspicion arises in the public debate, it is, of course, the first question that we are sorry about, but how have we allowed such a thing to happen, that such events have probably occurred or that it is possible that it has happened. In fact, when we start looking at this material, it turns out that there are really holes in this law and proposals have been made to shut down these holes. Now it is, it seems to me, such a good social moment to make these decisions. So, no, no doubt in any way, neither I nor the Social Democrats are questioning the presumption of innocence with this draft, nor in general. Stay calm.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U99	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U100	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good waitress, I listened here, at a distance, to questions and answers, and I felt I had to say something. What the Reform Party is afraid of was a question. I don't know what the Reform Party is afraid of. As a representative of the Reform Party, I say that I am quite afraid that we will change the law by going ahead, ad hoc. Something's gonna happen, and we're gonna change it. On the basis of individual cases, we are going to amend the arms law, the penal code, now we are going to change the party law. But my question is, if I shut down the video right now and listen to what you're saying, Evgeny, sometimes you sound like an apologetic to some deep state theories. You're already talking about how the intention to develop is to kill a bill. When I say that I do not represent the whole Reform Party, just myself here, is the view that the intention to develop is bad and the state actually wants to put things to death with it your personal position or is it the position of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U101	Thank you. You got the wrong impression, Valdo. Undoubtedly, I do not think that this is a conspiracy of any unknown and unnamed persons against the Estonian state and people on this draft, speaking of a deep state. And without doubt, we have no intention of amending the arms law with this bill in any way, so that we do not get the wrong impression. I understand you didn't mean to say that, but you listed different laws. No, I do not think that the ampouad of the Arms Act needs to be implemented in the context of the funding of political parties. On the intention to develop: no, the Social Democrats have not shaped the party's position on the intention to develop. I express my personal view that this is largely a waste of pointless paper. I have held this view for a long time in the different roles I have played in Estonia. I can talk about this for a very long time. I've got an hour and ten minutes here. Since my speech is not limited, I could do so, but at some point probably the chair would shut me down. I have very compelling arguments, and they come directly from practice. But briefly, indeed, it was a good thing that in the context of good legislative practice, legislative burdens and legislative changes could be reduced by more analysis, evaluation etc. The idea was beautiful. But the practice is that, in practice, the initiator of most of the changes has a very clear vision and also has a political agreement to implement it in exactly the way it is. In this context, this inclusion game is being created, that we will start before the intention to develop, where we say that we have not yet chosen the measure in which we will solve this problem, that we will only describe the problem and then analyse together how to solve it. All the institutions, organisations, ministries involved write all kinds of opinions, but in fact, the minister already knows how he goes on from there. Then the whole lot will be worked out and put into the coordination table. As a matter of fact, the bill is already in place when this intention to develop comes out. I think it's a waste of ugly people's money and public money, taking these papers. If there is a clearly defined problem, the solution of which is basically known and agreed, then there is no point in playing that we have not yet decided. Then we must honestly say that we have such a solution as a draft, let us discuss it. Involvement must take place in a place where there is really any use for inclusion, it is not just a matter of exhausting organisations with all kinds of paperwork. Now I am saying that it would be clear that there really are some major longer-term reform processes that are needed in the sense of some kind of review of the legal field, where it really makes sense to do this type of longer-term legislative work, and it has been done, and it has produced positive results. But this type of change, as we are talking about here today, does not require any development plan. In fact, we need to discuss with the specialists what these changes are. If there are any technical details, we will analyse them, we will change them, we will find an agreement and we will do so, not after the Come on, what is this? That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U102	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I listened very carefully to your explanations, and I think you slipped again. When you say in the bill that there was suspicion, in your explanation and in your speech you have already spoken of the accusation. These are still different procedural definitions, let's say, for the person being dealt with in criminal proceedings. But that's it. I still can't get around or over the fact that only suspicion became the motive for this bill. You said that there is no denying the constitutional values here, but if you make a definition of suspicion in the draft law, that Article 22, the presumption of innocence, does not apply. By the way, Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, said that this definition of motivation was very wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U104	Thank you! First of all, if my tongue really slipped and I used the word "indictment," I apologize. I am, of course, aware of the difference. We're talking about suspicion. What you're talking about is in the preamble to the explanatory statement. Indeed, I believe that Parliament and the Members of Parliament of themselves should also respond to what is happening in society and respond in a timely manner, not just as in the specific case that, if we have experienced some kind of event in society and this has brought about shortcomings in the legal order, it is certainly possible to think that, well, we will wait five years until this matter is over, and then we will decide whether it is necessary or not. In the meantime, I think there's a lot of choices going on. Perhaps if we have these loopholes in lawmaking, this unfair competitive advantage will also be passed on to the administration of the state. This is the first observation. I think Parliament could still react earlier. Point two, in the case of this particular incentive and draft, indeed, the problems to which this draft offers solutions are objectively obvious. The issue is not that, for example, the unclear procedure concerning the reduction of subsidies or the recovery of forced money in the case of political parties is somehow dependent on whether or not Kersti Kracht is guilty. It has absolutely nothing to do with this. This time in this law is flawed what we have, and it should be fixed regardless of how this particular case goes. Once again, we certainly do not want to interfere with this draft in any way in the specific judicial or judicial proceedings currently being conducted at the level of the prosecutor's office. Finally, indeed, if it matters to you as personally as I understand it, it concerns a member of your party, it is understandable, because if your party's actions are in this way in the prosecution office, it is, of course, uncomfortable, then I assure you that there is no word about it in the draft text. This is an introduction to the explanatory memorandum, so it is, in principle, possible for the honourable colleague Grünthal to simply ignore it as a drafting formula that a member of the Riigikogu disagrees with. Why am I saying this? We will finally vote on the draft text; the explanatory memorandum will explain this. The text of the draft law does not contain any reference to any political party or to any particular judicial or judicial matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U105	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U106	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Jevgeni Ossinovski! I was moved to ask Riina Sikkut's first question. He asked why. I see here a bit of a question of trust. I'm going to ask you an example. What do you think if the chairman of the committee were a member of the EKRE, if the vice-chairman of the committee was a person very closely connected to the EKRE and there was a member of the committee, would we also be talking about democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U107	I'm so sorry, but I didn't understand the question. [[A voice from the hall.]] I thought we were talking about the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That if both the Chair and the Vice-Chair of the Political Committee on Financing were members of a political party, whether we would talk about democracy, I think it was a question of whether this would be appropriate, let's say by expanding. Yeah, I'd think that's pretty weird if that were to happen, because the parties are going to appoint a representative. It is probably possible that, for example, I do not know, the Auditor General will also appoint a member of another EKRE or another party, for example, but this has not happened so far, as far as I know. Theoretically, such a situation could arise. I do not think that, as a collegial body, the Commission would make such a decision that both the chairman and the vice-chairman are from one political party, and that has not yet happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U108	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U109	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would first like to correct that you are bringing the case of Kersti Kracht here, for example, but I would point out that the ERJK certainly does not have jurisdiction over this criminal case. However, I would like to be clear about the activities of the ICTY, which you very much welcome here. We know that there will be a vote on the opening of the procedure. This vote depends in principle on the chairman who is a former member of the Social Democrats, although his status may have been suspended. This is not the way to deal with infringements. Everything that is a violation should be dealt with. Why don't you explain a little bit about how we have to take it? We'll vote, and then when we get the support, we'll deal with it, but if we do, we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U110	Thank you! This will undoubtedly lead to such a broader debate on how the control of political parties' funding should be structured. Of course, we know that there was a will in the previous government, and you were one of its leaders to shut it down. I guess what you just said was also one of the arguments that sounded at the time. The wider argument behind it has been that the party funding monitoring body should be independent and that the ICTY is not independent, as there are representatives of political parties sitting there. It's a much wider discussion and debate. Perhaps, in the context of this draft, it is not reasonable to go in depth, given that the purpose of this draft is to extend their rights and opportunities to work on the existing ERJK model. The purpose of the draft is not to shut down the ERJK or otherwise fundamentally reconstruct it. That was the point of your bill when you presented it. Undoubtedly, if you, either as a Member of the Commission or as a political group, have the desire to bring this matter up again, you will, of course, be able to take this legislative initiative again, and then we will be able to discuss it in greater depth. In the context of the principle, however, I think that the ERJK, although not independent of political parties, is a balanced body where these different interests are, in fact, balanced by others. There is no doubt in that it is of the essence that the representatives of political parties carry out supervision when it is carried out in a balanced manner, in addition to the experts, and within a clear framework. The members of the party know very well and watch very closely how the competitors campaign and how they organise their finances. The competitor is well aware of the manner in which political action is pursued and whether political competition in a particular municipality or during a particular campaign is fair or not and whether unfair practices are used. So it certainly has its positive angles. I certainly do not want to say that this ERJK system is somehow ideal or purely thoughtful. Of course, there are other possibilities. But I think in the big picture it's served us pretty well in recent years, and I don't think we should shut him down. Instead, we could try to give him the necessary rights so that he can fully accomplish his task, which the law has given him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U111	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U112	[[Remote connection]] Yes, thank you! I apologise for my previous question, for not being able to explain it so properly, but I would like to explain it now. Liisa Oviir is also currently a member of the Social Democratic Party, Kaarel Tarand is a relatively close person to the Social Democrats, which means that she is not a member, and one member of the [Commission] is a Social Democrat. My question came from that. Having also himself, on a few occasions, participated in this committee...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U113	Merry, we can't hear you. We didn't hear you at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U114	Ah. Okay, can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U115	Yeah. Ask the question again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U116	I just wanted to make it clear that, at the moment, three people are still relatively close to the social democrats in this committee. My question was that I didn't trust it. If this Commission were led by completely impartial people, I would trust it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U117	Yes, your question is understandable. I do not know that there are three social democrats in this committee, or rather there are no three social democrats, I am pretty sure, although I do not have any information technology tools available at this moment to look at this membership. No, Kaarel Tarand is not a person close to the social democrats. He's not involved with our party. He is, in fact, a representative of the Chancellor of Justice in this committee. The Chancellor of Justice is known to be an independent independent constitutional institution with full freedom to appoint or recall a member. Undoubtedly, the independent and objective nature of Kaarel Tarand's work is also assessed by the Chancellor of Justice. So that statement is not true. It is true that Liisa Oviir is a socialist. As I understand it, in general, when selecting the leaders of the Commission, it is intended that perhaps one of the representatives of the constitutional institutions, for example, who would not be a member of the party, but the constitutional institutions themselves or their representatives, as I have understood, maybe I am wrong, but I remember that I never received such information, in fact I did not want to take on this role. Last time the chairman was elected, I don't know, but I assume that Liisa Oviir achieved the highest majority. I did not take part in this vote, I do not know who voted for or against him and how many votes he received, but I believe that this act was legitimate. Undoubtedly, this committee is also entitled, if they are not satisfied with Liisa Oviir's work in this office, to elect a new chairman for the committee. This bill does not regulate these issues in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U118	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U119	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! In answering my question, you mentioned that the purpose of this draft is, like, to expand the activities of the ICTY. My question is this: does this extension mean that, so far, if the Social Democrat Liisa Oviir himself has decided as chairman, what case to put to the vote, which one is not, and also by referring to what you mentioned earlier, that the Socialist Party is monitoring the actions of competitors, does it mean that, even more broadly, procedures will be taken on the matters of competitors? Or is there still hope that fair action will be taken, not by voting and not by the chairman's discretion, but by dealing with all cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U120	Thank you! No, you got the wrong impression. Undoubtedly, the goal was not what you pointed out. I repeat: if the Commission considers that it is necessary to elect a new leader for this Commission, the Commission can decide that. The current draft does not restrict these rights in any way. I will be honest with you that you are obviously more familiar with this Commission than I am. If there is a desire to deal with it in any way systematically and to analyse how this committee has worked, what things have been or have not been initiated, I think it would undoubtedly be a worthwhile analysis. So, as a member of the Riigikogu, you will in any case have the opportunity to carry out such an analysis or to propose to do so in the relevant committee. I think it would be interesting for all colleagues to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U122	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! I'm coming back to the subject of this mother-in-law's closet. It started vigorously, but ended, died like suddenly, even though the prosecutor's office's summary is an interesting reading. But since the main character of the scandal in this mother-in-law's closet, the corruption scandal, is a socialist at this moment, you have more information about the behind-the-camp of this former Reform Party's mother-in-law's closet. Haven't you ever thought that we could finally talk about how it really was? I think we've read the report from the D.A.'s office. It's an appetite. But you have better information as a socialist. Have you thought about going all the way to the end of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U123	Thank you, good Peter! No, I do not have any more information than that Silver Meikar, whose revelations led to the initiation of this criminal case, is indeed a social democrat. According to his memory, he openly addressed the various circumstances surrounding the case. Anything hidden? I can't answer that question. I'm sure you can turn to him. The Social Democratic Party has not discussed this issue in any way in isolation: does Silver know anything else? I doubtless encourage you to address him and discuss these questions. We drew important conclusions from this case at the time, I think, as a society, including legal, we strengthened the system of monitoring party funding, we made a number of other changes. For me, it is important that we also make the necessary legal conclusions and patch up the gaps that have emerged when we are once again in society on a rather large scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U124	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. It is now time to give the floor to the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U125	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, both in this Chamber and behind the screen! Before I go to the Commission's debate, I promise myself two lines. In the course of this draft proceedings in this Chamber, all political parties have been hit and vehemently hit, even the party that reported this bill, except for the Fatherland, which has actually escaped this criticism, so congratulate you on that. I think it's hard to get support like this. That's my first line. The second line is that I do not think that, when writing a bill or processing it in this Chamber, on the one hand or on the other, by a waitress or by a questioner, it should not be personal. I do not think it is good practice for us to process, discuss or create one or the other on the surface of one person or another. Of course, you can also say abstractly. Often it may be necessary to make these references, but I think that it is not like good practice to be guided by one person or another. That way, I don't think we're gonna get very far. These were two lines which were not directly mentioned at the Commission meeting. Now to the sitting of the Commission. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 6 April. a. Almost all members of the Commission took part. It is important to note that there was no Urmas Reinsalu, and it is also important to note that Mr Henn Põlluaas took part as an alternate member instead of Paul Puustusmaa. Liisa Oviir, Chairman of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission, Kaarel Tarand, vice-president and adviser Zoja Masso, as well as Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, were invited. The procedure before the Commission for this draft began as usual. At that time, Lauri Läänemets, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, presented the draft and explained that the overall aim of the draft was to increase the credibility of democratic policies and to strengthen the control over the transparency of political party funding. The draft aims to increase the powers of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission and to clarify the sanctions applicable to infringements. I hope that Lauri Westmets will apologise if I do not touch on these specific amendments. Since Mr Ossinovski spoke very thoroughly about the same things, on the same basis and on the same principles, I shall skip this part. First of all, Liisa Oviir responded, who replied that the draft contains several proposals that the Political Financing Supervisory Commission has made over the years to both the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Justice. Now, a more specific line. First of all, Liisa Oviir noted that as regards the transfer of the forbidden donation to the state budget, the Political Financing Supervisory Commission has taken the view that this is the right way to deal with the prohibited donation and would also have a preventive effect. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the circle of subjects who may receive prohibited donations is wider than only political parties. It would therefore make sense to clarify the law in such a way that all subjects have to return prohibited donations to the state budget, not only political parties, as stipulated in the draft. At this point, I note that Lauri Läänemets, the rapporteur for the initiators of the draft, later also confirmed in his speech that he certainly does not see a problem in this regard when illegal donations, as such, are not only to be returned by political parties. A prohibited donation can also be made to third parties and this regulation should be similar. So Lauri Läänemets did not object to this position of Liisa Oviir. Secondly, Liisa Oviir explained the issue of the immediate publication of the injunction on the website of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. The Political Financing Monitoring Commission is a strong advocate of disclosure and all information in the ERJK is publicly available. However, the complex cases of hidden funding and the precepts to them are quite long and contain a wide range of details, including financial data, contracts, court records and private data. If these precepts are to be made public without delay, then it should be quite precisely established and thought through how to do so in such a way that data protection rules are not violated. Here, too, I immediately mediate the view of the rapporteur for the draft, Lauri Läänemets, that it is not really the intention to disclose this material in total or it is not a desire, but it is still the aim of the public to know that proceedings have been initiated against one party or another. So it certainly did not mean that it had to be made public in total without delay. Thirdly, Liisa Oviir stressed that the ERJK should have the right to request information from third parties. This is a very important change and it allows the ERJK to do its job better. I would like to add that the Chancellor of Justice has also supported the same position. To be honest, it is quite incomprehensible how much the work of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission is limited. They can only ask for information from the subjects of the party law, i.e. the party, the electoral union, the individual candidate or their members, but à la some advertising company and local government, where in fact important information can be obtained in order to carry out their work, does not have the right to ask them. So it's completely elementary and understandable that there should be such a right. As I mentioned, the Chancellor of Justice has also supported it, and Liisa Oviir, as well as the initiator of the draft, consider it appropriate. Mr Tarand made a very important statement at this meeting of the Commission. In particular, when I asked whether this was now the ideal and, for the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, the draft they have dreamed of and what they have wanted for years, he replied in such a way that it was not quite the ideal. Now it is a very important place: all the amendments and additions in the draft are necessary, but it only concerns a small part of the problems related to party law. Therefore, depending on the further procedure of the draft, it should be considered whether this draft could be substantially extended and include other improvements and improvements concerning political party law. It's a very important line. If I am not mistaken, Kaarel Tarand used a percentage definition at the committee meeting and said that if these changes, which are in this draft, had the approval of a large hall, it would perhaps solve 10% of the real problems. Kaarel Tarand sees that much bigger problems and bottlenecks and a fundamental paradigm change should still take place with a broader revision of party law, because there are many times more of these problems than perhaps the specific things that the initiators of this draft have pointed out. The message from Kaarel Tarand to the end was that the Political Financing Supervisory Commission has too much responsibility and the parties themselves have too little responsibility. It was his personal line. Ms Jõeorg-Jurtshenko presented the position of the Government of the Republic on the draft and explained that strengthening the supervision of political party funding was also one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic. In the Cooperation Agreement with the Government Union, one of the lines of action of the Government is to strengthen the Commission by enhancing its competence and capacity and by extending the competences of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. To this end, a systematic analysis of the field referred to by Jevgeni Ossinovski and the involvement of stakeholders is planned to be submitted by the Ministry of Justice in September of this year. Thus, the Government of the Republic did not consider it appropriate to resolve the concerns about the funding of political parties in the form proposed in draft 321. Perhaps once again, the Government of the Republic does not at all deny the necessity of dealing with these problems, but unlike treating them as small pieces, the Government of the Republic considers that this issue should still be dealt with in terms of total volume and this approach. As I said, this intention to develop has at least a specific deadline, that is September. By that time there should be a plan to develop a way forward. As a recliner, I will tell the most honorable Jevgeni Ossinovski that I cannot agree with this irony about the intention to develop. In this very large hall here, I remember, I myself was a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs at the time, who dealt with this bill, the fundamentals of legislative policy. [[Jevgeni Ossinovski comments on the floor.]] Look, it's bad to hear it's a bad document, as Mr Ossinovski just said. I haven't been able to control how many voices of support it received, but I think it received very much support, actually from a large hall. I think it was supported by the Social Democrats. Of course, there were also a number of other things that might have been the reason why you supported it. However, if it was so controversial, you should not have voted in favour of it. So it's actually written in there and a very important principle. Therefore, I would not like to question the programme of development as such, especially when we are talking about fundamental changes. If we still go for a bigger piece of party law, that is a very fundamental change. In any case, I am of the opinion that this would still require an intention to develop. Kalle Grünthal said that there is usually some kind of incentive or reason to initiate or introduce any draft legislation. The explanatory memorandum to this draft contains a sentence which states that the concrete motivation for the draft was the suspicion of the Centre Party and the EKRE member concerning illegal funding of political parties, trade in influence and bribery. Paragraph 22 of the Constitution provides that no one may be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has been enforced. In Kalle Grünthal's view, the procedure for the proposed draft is a failure to respect constitutional values. The Riigikogu should preserve its dignity and not descend to the level of the so-called yellow press. Henn Põllaas also noted that he would agree with Kalle Grünthal, because he also felt that the reason for the draft draft draft in the draft explanatory memorandum was extremely inappropriate and ugly. Indeed, I must now quote myself, as I have already been quoted above. Toomas Kivimägi said that he felt that this draft sentence had not been very successful in the explanatory memorandum either. Toomas Kivimägi felt that he too felt that no bill should be drawn up for the sake of any individual. If you list the members of two political parties in the draft explanatory memorandum, this certainly will not bring any additional support to the draft. But at the same time, and I am also of the same opinion today, the content of the draft sentence does not change and the real problems with the funding of political parties are much wider. The problems that the draft seeks to solve have been known to everyone for a long time and deserve to be fully addressed. Once again, after my explanatory opinion, Kalle Grünthal reiterated his view that he felt that such a draft should not be sent to the Riigikogu for processing. Toomas Kivimägi said that no one has been convicted in the draft explanatory memorandum. As the Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the draft procedure, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not in a position to do so. This could only be done if the initiators withdrew the draft. Kalle Grünthal once again proposed to the initiators that they withdraw the draft and re-submit it as amended. Then Thomas said some points of view in Kivimägi. The views of the Reform Party were sought, but these are certainly not the views of the Reform Party, but are the personal views of Toomas Kivimägi, because we have not discussed them and the plan for development is still dealt with by the Government of the Republic. However, some lines, which, I think, perhaps largely coincide with the positions of the Reform Party. One is the issue of the transfer of forbidden donations to the state budget. This, by the way, is also a principle which the Chancellor of Justice has considered to be very important. I think that's what matters. It's relatively funny that you make a forbidden donation and then you just get it back. It's not reasonable and it's not right. However, I raised the question at the committee meeting that there might be some sort of moratorium on the forbidden donation that you will have to return in time. Maybe if a donation is made and I don't know if it's forbidden or not forbidden, it'll take some time to figure it out. Then it turns out that if I knew it was forbidden, I would have carried it right back, I wouldn't have accepted it. But I didn't know that. If it goes automatically to the state budget then maybe it's not fair. Maybe even the donor didn't know it was forbidden. A simple example: a legal person makes a donation; he did not come up with the idea that a party may not be supported by legal persons. If this were to go automatically to the state budget, in the case of a case where the donor really didn't know it, it would seem as if it were incomprehensible. So there could be some moratorium, I don't know, is it 10 days or 30 days, during which the party has to explain itself, and then this money will be transferred back. That was the first line. Secondly, as regards the budget of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, the Reform Party has also expressed this in the Coalition Agreement with the Central Party, that we consider it important to strengthen the activities of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission also materially. But here I dare say that at least the Reform Party believes that it is not correct to link it to a specific percentage, as has been done in the case of the draft, that it would be 5% of the money allocated to the political parties that comes from the state budget to them. We believe that as little as possible of the state budget should relate to the so-called percentage of things. We know that there are defence costs for this, and this is absolutely right and justified, but to create more lines where a specific percentage has been stated in advance, this is unlikely to be supported by the Reform Party. As far as the disclosure of the decisions of the ICTY is concerned, here too, my suggestion was that perhaps this should not be done without delay, precisely for the same reasons that it may be necessary to remove sensitive personal data and that it will take some time to process it. Maybe this "without delay" assumes I have to do it now. There could also be a deadline, is it five days or is it within a week, but "without delay" is such an undefined term. It is very easy to say that you did not do so immediately. It could be configured. Moreover, Toomas Kivimägi also mentioned and agreed with Mr Kaarel Tarand, as he might have understood earlier, that not only issues concerning the supervision of political party funding should be improved, but in fact all the party law and all the problems in it, to which the Government of the Republic also referred, should be dealt with. Lauri Läänemets commented that he basically agrees that the motivation of the draft sentence in the draft explanatory memorandum is not the best. However, the purpose of the draft and the main reasons for the amendment are also set out in the draft explanatory memorandum. Finally, the Commission took procedural decisions. Firstly, to put this draft on the plenary agenda by 20 April, or today, this decision was consensual. Secondly, to propose to conclude the first reading of the draft, there were 6 members of the Commission: Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Marko Storm, Mart Võrklaev, against 1, Kalle Grünthal, and the abstentions were 1, Henn Põllaas. Thirdly, to propose a deadline of 13 May 2021 at 5.15 p.m. for amendments, the decision was consensual. Finally, to appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur, this decision was also consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U126	Thank you. There are also questions to Thomas Kivimägi. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U127	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Firstly, I will correct my claim: the fundamentals of justice paper is not a bad paper; it is a pointless paper. I didn't say anything right from the start. Nothing depends on it, and it could have been done peacefully. Of course, I do not want to have a debate here on the principle of intention to develop. I do have a very firm position on this, which is different from yours. But for that, let's not talk about it any more. I let Valdo Randper provoke me unreasonably, got glued, talked about it too much. But that's my question. Understandably, you trust more that this is a priority for the government, that it will be worked out, and soon it will be that by September the plan for development should be ready. But when will this comprehensive draft package reach Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U128	Thank you, very respectable questioner. I can really confirm that we have been given the view that the planned development will be in place in September. As an experienced politician, you know, I think there's gonna be a few months. I do not, of course, have the authority to say, nor do I have any information on when the draft will come specifically. But I am ready to ask my good colleague, Maris Lauri, when they intend to submit this draft according to their work programme. However, I say, honourable Evgeni and colleagues from your group, knowing Maris Lauri: he does not throw empty words. You can't just say, referring to history, that everything is bad in the bud, and it's like some kind of example of stretching, or what words you used, that it's an inclusion game, and so on. I think it is a priori to say that there will be a new person, a new minister, and he will do the exact same thing, whistle on these things, it is early today to say this specifically about Maris Lauri. I think he's very principled. These words such as "systematic" are, among other things, an analyst who is important to him and he certainly takes these things very thoroughly. There is no reason to doubt that. Maybe one more line. Today, you are fighting against the big piece that we are talking about, which the government is talking about, in order to adopt a party law, which Kaarel Tarand also says that perhaps the main problems are buried there in the larger text of the party law. When we have only recently dealt with the anti-corruption law, which we committed to submitting declarations of interest to the political advisors of ministers, we have been able to draw from you repeatedly why we are taking such a small piece, why we are not taking on this big piece. Now we say yes, we listened to you, and we want to take on this big piece, and you tell us no, listen, but let's do this little piece, it's so easy, let's do it. There is always a question of choices, but let's say that the circle of problems, which with the funding of political parties and the law of parties as a whole is, without a doubt, undoubtedly, I think that no one is arguing against, is much bigger than these specific things. Once again, we do not deny that a whole series of things are logical and well-founded. There is no antagonism here. All the more so since I referred repeatedly and not in vain to the Chancellor of Justice. Politicians may have some other interest in presenting one or another of the draft points, but a number of these proposals coincide with the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice. So the question is not so much the substance of the matter in this case, but indeed the question is whether we are going to take this package as a whole, on a large scale and indeed not quite indeterminate in the future. At least it's a very specific deadline, you can ask Maris Lauri in September where the VTK is if it isn't. Thanks to your attention, I'm sure the IDC will be there by September.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U129	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U130	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Here's the question. So how come he's come to be a little lean, and that long plan isn't there? When I look at this bill here, I do not see these so-called follow-up actions here either. Did you not get the impression in the Commission that they would like to test society? Maybe if they get a little bit of this done now, they'll see where he's going, that maybe the first thought wasn't so good, and then they'll form it around. Did the Commission get the feeling that it is motivated by the fact that they only want to change 10% a little?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U131	Thank you. I really don't see in their heads, so I don't know what these real motives and reasons are. But I dare say it's not random. However, the Social Democrats have been relatively consistent in addressing these issues. Whether it's a test or not, politicians always test. In particular, if one or the other party has expressed a specific position, a draft will be put together and reviewed. We have even done so in the opposition, we know how it works. But in this case, I dare say there is no political test here. Once again, I have, of course, spoken to them in my committee secretariat. They also suggested that, indeed, as an Evgeni waitress, this was also very well referred to; they do not claim copyright; they are mainly specific proposals of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee, as well as specific proposals of the Chancellor of Justice. So in this case, I wouldn't blame the Social Democratic Party and Raimond Kaljulaid for this kind of test.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U132	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U133	Thank you. It is a pleasure to see Tarmo Kruus Hills in a sitting position behind the desktop this time. Good Thomas! Here's what I'm gonna ask. What do you think, a package of proposals proposed by specialists of a predominantly technical nature versus a wider package, which the government allegedly intends to present in which case there is a greater likelihood of consensus, whether such smaller, technical, expert-considered proposals or such a wider brush drawn [package]? That's the first question. The second question is this. You said it was too early to judge that the government wasn't doing anything. All right. But tell me when this month is, if I can rightly say that the government has done nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U134	Thank you, Mr Ossinovski, my dear colleague. I think you know the answer to the first question very well. Of course, with one specific technical proposal, consensus is several times easier to achieve than with the 'big package'. But you also know very well that this little technical nuance will solve one little problem in this matter. If we still want to fundamentally change this paradigm, which, I believe, is one of the fundamental and major objectives of your group and party, this one small technical nuance will not solve it. As has been pointed out, Mr Karel Tarand, a person close to you, stressed in the committee session that this draft does indeed solve a small part of these problems. I think Kaarel can make this big picture with a big brush. I completely admit that it is many times easier to reach a consensus on such technical changes, but we have still taken on this great goal. As regards when you have the right to comment on the Government of the Republic, I am referring in this case to a specific draft. Secondly, if we are talking about this at all, it was also, in the case of the political advisors of ministers, the subject of 'nothing' being done, I say that there are only a few months when this government has been. The same anti-corruption action plan, whether you like it or not, is certainly a nuance that you do not like there, but in the previous government coalition it remained as if it did, it was not approved by the government, I do not know why, but it was not approved. This coalition quickly confirmed it. Or the same matter of a declaration of interest. It was a little nuance, but we learned from the fact that we're not coming with little things anymore, we're coming with a big deal. We want to make it big, too. The third was the topic of lobbyists, which was in the government. So I think enough has been done in this short time. Indeed, Maris Lauri, I believe, is very thorough as a person; he does not come over here with one or the other bill. So let's talk about a specific thing. I think you're right to ask Maris Lauri if there's no plan for development by September.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U135	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As I said in the Commission, the main aim of this draft is still to quickly correct the errors that are preventing concrete investigations today, just as the representatives of the ICTY in the Commission have said, I do not remember whether this draft is being discussed or when discussing earlier drafts. I understood in the Commission that more or less everyone agreed, including the representatives of the ICTY, that the right thing, the right objectives, the problems must be resolved, some additions to this draft should be made, they will take some time. However, since the continuation of this process depends very much on the Commission and the Commission's leadership, I have a question for you: will this draft, under your leadership, reach second reading this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U137	Thank you, dear questioner. Firstly, I refer to the Commission's decision. The majority of the Commission proposed that the first reading of this draft be closed. I personally intend to stick to my position and, as far as I know, my colleagues will do the same, we are not forced to vote either way, for the majority will do it. Secondly, we also gave here a somewhat longer deadline for tabling amendments. Of course, we will see which amendments will come to the table, and we will decide on this. Thirdly, we cannot overlook the position of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic has taken a very specific negative position. In this sense, the Commission has been good, it would be good if you would recognise it in a much more liberal way. In short, we have not come up with a proposal to reject the draft at first reading, but we are of the opinion that there are good things here that the government should learn from and should take advice. Once these amendments have come to the table, let me be clear, let us discuss with Maris Lauri and perhaps with [someone] whether it is wise to go to the end with them. But, of course, I don't want to push responsibility on Maris Lauri. The responsibility for the second reading remains with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Not even on me, because my voice isn't enough. But how and how to proceed? I guess I'll ask Maris about these deadlines, because, in fact, September isn't too far away. If those deadlines are true to what Maris has been up to, maybe it's rational to go after this bigger piece. We want to do (as you reproached us) that we do not deal with small pieces, but take a big step forward. In this case, the plan is quite strong. But once again, without the irony of the bill, I believe that a whole series of things will get to this hall in one way or another, just the way you have it written here. I very much believe and hope that the hall will also approve these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U138	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U139	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You rightly mentioned that the Social Democrats have been working on this for a long time. But I see one problem here, that they have their own approach, and that who is not on our side, it is against us, as it develops, that take it or leave it, and if you don't take it now, then you're bad and backwards. I think the EJC could really use some more thorough work. But now I hear that, and I've heard it several times here [and I want to know] whether you've had any sense of it. Evgeny here said that specialists and specialists and specialists, but many people have just gotten there from different walks of life, so I don't think they're specialists. What is the basis for being a specialist, whether a gut feeling, or qualified under any circumstances, so that we too can treat them as professionals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U140	Thank you, dear colleague Tarmo. If I understood your question correctly, it was more focused on the waitress. Once again, I cannot answer or speak on his behalf. We are all ultimately subjective, each with our own opinions, and in this sense it is very difficult to express our views on behalf of someone else. So I am very sorry that I cannot answer this question very specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U141	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U142	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for your thorough review. First of all, about your initial comments, I would say that I agree exactly that we are talking about ideas, thoughts, not blaming or attacking people, because then there will be no good skin. However, was the debate on ideas greater than blaming each other for being stupid or for doing wrong and for yourself to see what kind of person you are? That's one question. The second question is whether it would be conceivable, for example, to reconcile these two drafts when the Government of the Republic comes with its own draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U143	Thank you, my good colleague Helmen. I've always respected you and your opinion, and I'm glad you came to my aid. I hope that you will defend it in your group so that perhaps it would be a very wise idea to reconcile these two drafts, if the draft Government of the Republic will also be there. Thank you for that! However, secondly, as regards whether there was a substantive debate, there was actually a very substantive debate, it lasted over an hour, and the minutes reflect it on a whole of eight pages. Indeed, a very meaningful debate. I gave a number of examples. The same subject of forbidden donation or disclosure. Here the initiator of the draft was very flexible, as were the members of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission who participated, both Liisa Oviir and Kaarel Tarand, plus the representative of the Ministry of Justice. In fact, this debate was very meaningful. I say once again, I do not want to over-emphasise this, but I think that the position of the EKRE would certainly have been significantly different if it had not been for that sentence in it. I really do not think that it is very correct to include such sentences that the draft became a concrete incentive... and then there is a reference to one or another specific [party]. I don't think that's a good idea. Let's not put it in, smart people will figure it out without writing it down, maybe what its motive was, but when it was written in, let's just say, it was like a red towel for EKRE. I understand why they're so hot, even from this point of view. Perhaps the same sentence caused quite a lot of damage to this debate. It is worth thinking about in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U144	During the discussion, a member of the Riigikogu can only ask two questions for two speakers together, so we will go to Eduard Odinets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Certainly, the Social Democrats are neither in favour of nor against large and small pieces. You have to look at your goals. If the objective, better control and transparency of the funding of political parties, can be achieved with smaller pieces, smaller drafts and technical matters, not by waiting for a large piece, when it will ever reach us, then perhaps it is right to start with those small pieces that have been prepared by specialists and brought to this hall by social democrats. Perhaps if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, although not under your leadership, had already drawn attention to these matters in the past, there would have been no cases that have indeed entered the introductory part of the explanatory memorandum. We have a local election right outside the door. Do you not think that this particular draft, along with its technical details, should be adopted as a matter of urgency so that we go to local elections with better rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U146	Thank you, very dear Eduard Odines. I repeat once again that the Commission's decision is to conclude the first reading. I really don't have an order or, as I say, a requirement to act one way or the other. As I said, we will also look at the amendments when they come. Secondly, as I suggested, I will certainly discuss it at least with Minister for Justice, Maris Lauri, their timetable, their attachment, etc., whether it is reasonable to deal with this draft separately or to do so with the draft government. But once again, I do not want to push, once again, the responsibility for dealing with this draft against Maris, a decision by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, in this case, the chairman of the committee. Third, a little bit like that before the election, or even... Good colleague Lauri, I didn't like one of your clues. You said you were gonna stop these investigations. You mean, of course, what the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties is doing, right? I admit it. But again, like a clue that we need this particular investigation. They could be with some time distance, not like we're gonna take it right before the election, and then we're gonna look at it like that. These rules, too, should still be known somewhat earlier. If we're on a run right now, we'll find out a few months before the local election. Maybe some things have been done before, then it's complicated. I don't think it's gonna change that paradigm anyway. Once again, this was not too much to be said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But I think that [should] a conversation with Kaarel Tarand about what he meant by 90%, that is, what's the big piece that changes this paradigm basically? We give the impression of a little overpainting, just like yesterday, when we did some things, but in fact, the big problems remain unresolved. Therefore, I say once again that it is not really a matter of concrete proposals in this case. I think that the vast majority of them, albeit somewhat corrected, which Lauri acknowledged at the committee meeting, will arrive at the draft proposed by the government. So in any case, you've done a good job and made the government work a little easier. I believe our goal is the same, no one denies it. There is a need to strengthen the monitoring of political party funding, whether it is the Political Financing Monitoring Commission or some other method, it is a longer debate and talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U147	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. We can go to the negotiations, but before that, Riina Sikkut has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U148	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. At the debate on a specific draft, there will be additional issues. I understand that I cannot make comments to Toomas Kivimägi, so I will ask you. Did you think that Evgeny Ossinovski's opinion on the intention to develop was personal? That is not the opinion of the political group or of all the members of the political group. There are different opinions among the social democrats as regards strategic documents, planning and other legislative procedures. I'm asking for the sake of protocol, do you understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U149	Well, I do not take the right to translate what the person actually said just now, but this presentation was supposed to express the discussions in the Commission. In the meantime, both personal opinions were asked and the rapporteur said that this was also the opinion of the party. I guess after the verbatim, you'll have to specify the sentence you've been grabbed. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Some clarifications and improvements still have to be made about what has last sounded like in this Chamber, so that there is no wrong impression, or I will try to disprove some ideas that maybe are not what we have thought and have in mind. First of all, this bill corrects the errors that are currently in the law. It is not with this draft that we are seeking to implement any new principles. What the Minister of Justice wants to do and what the government has a plan for, I understand, is still such a more fundamental change, as we said in the Commission, when the representative of the ERJK, Kaarand, pointed out there that perhaps some sort of solution lies in some other principles. They require more debate, longer debate, longer preparation, but they are not improvements to loopholes. This bill specifically corrects the gaps in the law. The principles have been agreed. I'll give you an example. The principle that if a party has broken the rules that we have agreed on, which we have entered into the law, it is possible to reduce the party's state budget support. How to do it, it hasn't been written down. So, in this case, it is not possible to implement the principle that we have ever written in law as a parliament. That's a problem, that's today's problem. The current principle that has been agreed cannot simply be applied. And there's a lot of these things. The ERJK has also been entrusted with the task of investigating whether or not there has been an infringement, but it is not in a position to carry out its own procedures normally. We have assigned him a task, but so that the ERJK can ask someone other than the party for documents, and they are obliged to provide him with these documents or information, has not been recorded in the law. There's nothing to discuss or analyze or agree on. These are the things we've wanted, but I don't know for what reasons the law doesn't spell out exactly how to do all this. On this point, this bill is very fundamentally different from what the Ministry of Justice is planning to do. There's a much bigger job. We are now trying to correct the mistakes that prevent today's investigations. When people come here and say that we are discussing with the Minister of Justice what the Riigikogu commission has to do, my suggestion is that the Riigikogu should think with its own head. Especially in such simple logic. Let the Ministry of Justice do its job, the Minister will certainly come or I hope he will come here as early as possible with these proposals. We can discuss these matters, but we will solve the problems that prevent today's investigations. If we don't want to solve them, if we find all kinds of excuses, say that now we need to discuss some big picture, what do we have to conclude? The conclusion, of course, that the real problem is not being resolved. Of course, who are we going to ask? Let's ask the government departments, ask the Reform Party and ask the Centre Party why this is the case, why the Prime Minister has promised one, but if we start doing it, if we come to help, if we propose solutions, very quick solutions, which are such pure formalities... Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U151	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U152	... and what needs to be done, solved, somehow things start to linger. Yeah, they say you're doing a good job, but let's see what the Minister of Justice says. That is why we conclude that the government coalition has no real will to contribute to the current investigations or possible future investigations. There's nothing to do with local elections in this sense that we don't expect anyone to commit any kind of violations anywhere. We don't have that information. But the principle is, the sooner the house gets in order on these issues, the better. Of course, it would be very good if there was no difference between the ERJK and which elections will come, and when they will come, it would be possible to do what Parliament has done for them. So once again, these are basically different things. Yeah, that big plan that the minister could come here with could contain exactly the same things. It is simply a question of why we need to wait a year to correct loopholes where there are no fundamental differences or new rules or principles to be applied. There are no reasons for this, there are no reasons for this. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this draft will not stop at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. After the deadline for amendments has passed, I hope, there will be discussions and I hope that we will be able to discuss this draft soon in this large Chamber as well. And the sooner the better. Let us not forget that, because it is simply necessary to correct the shortcomings in the law and not to make fundamental changes, there is certainly a principle here: the sooner, the better for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U153	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U154	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope I'm hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U155	You are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U156	Ladies and gentlemen, on this side of the screen, in the halls, in the cafeteria, wherever you are, in bed with your friends! Justinian, the emperor of Eastern Rome, has said that knowledge of the law means not an understanding of words, but of their content, their meaning, and their plan. We've figured out what the bastards want to do and what kind of dicks. There is a theory that the purpose is a means. It doesn't really matter whether Machiavell or Ovidius said it, the scientists are arguing here, but the fact is, if this was a rabbit, his ears would look pretty big from the warlock bill. The National Conservation Group has examined this draft law submitted by the Social Democratic Party and has discussed it quite thoroughly. We view the general idea of this law with the utmost sympathy. But we have decided not to support this draft, at least in this form. The reason is that this draft is quite crude, and its improvement by making changes is perhaps quite difficult, if not impossible, at least in the way and from the angle that the Socats have done. The draft has been put into practice on the basis of circumstances that are, say, bogus, misleading the public and disparaging the law as a whole, rather than clarifying it. First of all, the EKRE definitely supports the idea of organising the party landscape and it is also unacceptable in any way to corruption, which unfortunately has been accepted by all other parties in the composition of the XIV Riigikogu. However, the specific features of the draft Social Security Act are to explain the need for this draft by means of a public lie or a semi-semis. It is practically impossible, practically impossible, politically quite shortsighted to take a point in this way. The Soots write of the reason for the necessity of the law, as has already been said, that their draft was motivated by the suspicions raised against the members of the Centre Party and the EKRE. It is, as I said, a profoundly demagogic sentence, a well-considered semi-truth, which is intended to mislead the public and to portray the EKRE in a consciously bad light. Socialists have, in their own way, linked the individual's personal and uninhibited interest in the EKRE, which has attracted the attention of the investigative bodies, to the national conservative party. Such a link is not justified, is misleading to the public and gives the whole planned correction to the taste of false law and fraud, in a situation where the ERJK is in fact under the direction of socialists. The EKRE cannot support demagogy, false claims, political fraud in this way, because then we would agree with the demagogic schemes in which the socialists want to involve the Estonian people and the entire public sphere. This law is unacceptable in its form and content. This is unacceptable in form and format; here the position of the government must also be accepted. In conclusion, the proposed improvements break the legal dynamics and the legal logic of the party law. Moreover, the control mechanisms set out in the party law need to be substantially strengthened, but this cannot be done in an existing form by improving the hole patch deck, the flag on the flag, the patch on the patch. Just as there is no point in renovating a house in which a vampire has entered, so there is no point in improving the open party law in this way. EKRE considers that the approach to the political system of our country, including the leading role of political parties, as well as the political party control mechanism, must be significantly modernised. The proposed amendment to the party law, or the draft 321 SE, is simply an empty replacement activity in substance and nature and is therefore not supported by the EKRE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-20_U157	Thank you. Now we're out of session, we're going to continue the negotiations tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned.
