ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 4th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. As usual, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries before the meeting is implemented. Please! Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a recent incident with environmental ministers that fall like ripe apples from a tree, the third in three months. It was only in December that we discussed the Ministry of the Environment's vision in the field of forestry and then the Hopsti Minister disappeared. As the subject is important and still requires fundamental decisions, we have prepared an inquiry into developments in the field of forestry for the new Minister for the Environment, Tõnis Möldr, to hear his vision on this matter as well. We will certainly present this question more hopefully, because the new government is, however, environmentally adequate, which means that it really understands the ecological and also scientific context in which these political decisions must be made. Decisions are not simple, but even more necessary. We hope that the Minister will have the opportunity to come as soon as possible to answer the eight questions that we have prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U3	Okay. No more wishes. We have accepted an inquiry. Of course, it will be decided by the Governing Board on further processing in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now we're ready to check for presence. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U4	89 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 12. We can start the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U5	On today's agenda, we have one item on the agenda, the third reading of the draft law amending the Food Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. As usual, at third reading, the political groups can take the floor. Is that what you want? It is. Ivar Padar, please! Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U6	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Food and food control have certainly been one of the hottest topics for discussion in this hall ever. Today, I'm looking, there's not a lot of interest. But let's think about the compositions of the Riigikogu that were twenty years ago. Then there were discussions in the new circumstances, the Estonian food industry came from Soviet standards and had to move to those standards to be traded in the free world, so that the reliability of our food would be adequate. Just 20 years ago, it was a moment of dialect when we started exporting our food industry's results. Milk powder was one of the first articles. There were many debates here at the time and there were very many skeptics. My opponent at the time said that no one in the European Union is waiting for our trade. But these things got done, we were able to prove our credibility. That's the way it's been. Recalling that time, it was the time of Laari's second government and there was very strong cooperation at government level: the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, entrepreneurs, as well as the Veterinary and Food Board. The result was very positive. Last year we remember these discussions when there was the question of whether or not the FVO was politicised, in the context of one particular situation. Clearly, the result is that we cannot complain as if the FVO had ever been politicised. Today we have before us the whole saga of food control, a new stage or development. Throughout this period, when we have built a new Estonia, the issue has been the administrative burden, the bureaucracy. It has always been criticised that the administrative burden and bureaucracy are too high for food control. The draft law before us will reduce this administrative burden. It reduces this particularly for those who are determined to develop entrepreneurship and, for example, to start producing food or to handle it in one way or another. Whether they set up their own sausage factory or start producing sushi doesn't matter. Hence the opportunity for today's colleagues who, somehow, should leave politics: the possibilities of making a sausage factory will become easier. This is certainly a positive step forward, where one thing must be pointed out: the rules on food hygiene in general do not change. Food hygiene rules, how and which hygiene rules must be complied with remain the same. But the bureaucratic burden is undoubtedly decreasing and it is positive. This is actually a good sign of the situation in which we hear that a price war has begun in certain food stores. The price war has started because there has been competition for the price of drinking milk. That's what our eyes have gone through. By the end of the day it will arrive... I would hate to say that by the end of the day, let's just say that at some point this dispute will come to us, here sits the Minister for Rural Affairs and is asked what are the support measures for agriculture. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U7	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U8	It's gonna make it back in circles. Hence the suggestion, ladies and gentlemen: if you disperse from here to your homes today, you should prefer the shopping opportunities that farmers do not eat. This is in every way a very important and constructive law that we are adopting today. You can all, colleagues, take home the good news that in the Riigikogu we deal mostly with real things, not pseudo-things. And the fact that the implementation of one part of this law is set for April 1 is not related to the meaning of the other part of that day. Thank you very much and good luck with the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U9	The political groups have no more requests to speak, which means that we can go to the final vote on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, the lead committee has proposed to put the draft to a final vote of 228. That is why I am putting before you a final vote on the draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-11_U10	92 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. We are done with today's agenda here in the big hall. I wish you every success and strength in the work of the committees. I'll see you next week. Have a good day.
