ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start our weekly briefing. As usual, there is first control of presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U2	33 members of the Riigikogu are present, 68 are absent. In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate: Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna and Minister of the Environment Tõnis Mölder. All ministers participate online. As usual, the members of the Riigikogu who have previously registered will first be able to ask a question, and they will also be able to ask a question that is more specific. The question can then be asked by one member of the Riigikogu. Two minutes to ask the question, three minutes to answer. As there are fewer questions today than usual, if we have time left, all of us in the Chamber will have one more opportunity to register to ask a question to a minister of their own choosing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U3	The first question is asked by Helir-Valdor Seeder and is answered by the Minister of State Administration, Jaak Aab, in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U4	Thank you. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. State security is a broad concept. It is not only the Defence Forces, the Defence Forces and the Defence League, but it is certainly also the definition of its own citizenry, because citizens have the political rights to exercise power in state institutions, work, stand as a candidate, be elected, the obligation of defence extends to young men, etc. As a result, it is also a matter of security for each country, how it defines its own citizenship and who are citizens. Last week, the Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani was in front of us in the Riigikogu, who announced that the government really gave citizenship to one person who has been repeatedly punished in criminal matters as an exception. I was once again familiar with the government's materials, and I see that last week, the government gave citizenship not to one person, but to several people who have been repeatedly punished in criminal matters. And that is rare, because a number of previous governments have not given citizenship to anyone who has been convicted of criminal offences. It has become the custom that we do not do so, so there have been many coalition governments. But here, citizenship has been granted to [person] who has been convicted of criminal offences three times in the Russian Federation, as well as to [person] who has been convicted of criminal and misdemeanour, and then to a person who has been punished twice in criminal proceedings. Tell me if the government has really chosen a new direction in shaping citizenship policy and, exceptionally, grants Estonian citizenship to those who are repeatedly punished in criminal proceedings. What is the reason? Do you also sense any responsibility for the security of the Estonian state for changing the current policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu and Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! After all, the question of granting citizenship or giving up citizenship has been a long-standing practice in Estonia when, exceptionally, the issue of giving up citizenship or giving up citizenship is being brought to the meeting of the government. In all governments, these questions have been on the table. I remember in the previous cabinet we also discussed quite thoroughly when the Ministry of the Interior brought such proposals on the table. I cannot accept this argument[that the government has changed direction]. Indeed, the previous government looked at the criminal record first and then at other matters, including the person's desire to receive [citizenship], language proficiency, background. While the penalties had been imposed a long time ago, tens of years ago, as far as I know, both criminal sanctions and misdemeanours were examined in the previous government and, exceptionally, citizenship was granted. It is still very important to have the background that this person has, the family life he has, whether he is ethnically in any way Estonian. There have been many of these reasons. Granting exceptional citizenship to one or two persons certainly does not mean that the current government has behaved in any way different from previous governments. This certainly does not change the basis of our citizenship policy. Cases shall be examined one at a time. As far as I can remember, in this case, mentioned by the person asking, the penalties had been imposed at least 20 years ago. And it must always be said here that a person can repent over time and draw his own conclusions from past conduct and violation. Life cannot be punished for the things a man has done several decades ago. As far as I am aware, [this recipient of citizenship] has also passed the examinations necessary to obtain citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U6	Helir-Valdor Seeder, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U7	Thank you. Honourable Minister! Let's be precise. The facts cannot be manipulated and vulgar. Indeed, in the previous and previous coalitions, which included the Fatherland Party, the Ministers of the Interior, be they from any political party, be it the EKRE or the Central Party, or wherever, I think there was no excuse from the Centre Party, were repeatedly from the Social Democrat Anvelt, for discussion in the government of the exceptional cases of granting citizenship to the criminally sanctioned. I can assure you that none of these requests were accepted by the previous or previous government. It was my personal task in the work division of the Fatherland, I reviewed these government materials, and all such requests were rejected. It has been a long tradition that criminal law, even more so, has not been granted citizenship to criminally sanctioned persons on several occasions. So this is an important practical change in government activity compared to previous governments. I am still asking you what are the reasons that, exceptionally, [citizenship is granted to a criminal sanction]. This [exceptional citizenship] is also provided for by law, and this change was introduced, by the way, when the Coalition included the Reform Party, the Centre Party and the EKRE, the ancient People's Union, in 2005. Then this opportunity was taken in, and there was no such opportunity at all before. What are the reasons why we are now practicing citizenship for those who are convicted of criminal offences? There is no practical need for this in Estonia; we are a democratic rule of law; we have all human rights guaranteed for non-citizens. The need to give the criminal prisoners citizenship repeatedly so that they can continue to exercise political power in Estonia in the future, I see only one reason here: since these people are predominantly Russian-speaking, this is the base of the electorate of the Central Party. Is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U8	Thank you for your question. I must respond to this last part in particular that the Centre Party has not made these decisions alone in the government, and it is certainly not a political request from the Centre Party. It's probably personal decision-making. If you are saying that during the previous government [the criminal record was not granted nationality], I must specify the reasons for which it was exceptionally granted or not granted. Perhaps it was true that, in the case of misdemeanours, when they were long overdue, they were given and perhaps not repeatedly given in the case of criminal punishment. But in the case of one criminal record, I think they did, I'm gonna have to specify the details. As far as the grant of citizenship is concerned, we also discussed these principles in the previous government, and these applications were brought into the office, and we examined them one by one. I can propose that we take a closer look at these materials in the future. The current government has agreed to the proposals made by the Ministry of the Interior. In the government, it's been a debate. There hasn't been a discussion. There's no political color on it. And I still confirm that these individual decisions will certainly not change the basis for granting Estonian citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U9	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I also ask about our security, but I will do so in the key to today's corona crisis and with regard to border controls. Most of our neighbouring countries are controlling their borders today and have imposed restrictions on access to the country: evidence of corona virus penetration is being asked, coronaties are being made for arrivals, people are being quarantined. The situation on the borders is sought to ensure that national restrictions do not become empty. However, we are now doing a half-time job. There are national restrictions, people are sitting in homes, businesses are disturbed or restricted, but the situation is not really controlled, because people can still enter the country freely. We have no idea whether people crossing the border are creating new corona lesions, transmitting the virus. The Health Board already has clear problems with close-to-contact monitoring at national level, not to mention people arriving across borders. When does the government plan to launch border checks and cross-checks comparable to last spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U11	In fact, we have discussed all these measures and restrictions both in the last months of the previous government and at the beginning of this government. This is still a topical issue. We've been given [data], and we don't make them up and look at the ceiling. When there was a greater outbreak and there was an increase in infection rates, we always had numbers and monitoring data on how much is going across the border and how much has been introduced. The Health Board also has an overview of this. If we look at the pandemic spread of the infection within our borders, the number of cases that come from abroad is actually very small. I know that some countries have tried, at least partly, to re-implement the closure of borders. Last spring we did. I can't rule it out on this one, no one knows how things are going to develop. But at the moment, we've made a decision to consider it so [that the border is open]. Of these numbers, how much is going across the border, even in this Schengen area, the Ministry of the Interior and the PBGB have a certain overview. It's known how many people or cars cross the border. These numbers are very small compared to the figures for the autumn period, and we have not initially considered it necessary to close the borders. You know it's pretty complicated, it's resource-intensive and we don't see all experts saying it either, so that [cross-border movement] we have a priority reason why the virus is spreading in the country. It's definitely not in the first five or six. The virus is spreading for other reasons. Rather, it is a matter of national contacts and national distribution affects these numbers. At first, this decision [to close the borders] has not been made, but I cannot confirm that we do not have to come back to such a consideration. It's all about the situation. After all, we have now implemented more or less the same harsh restrictions as you were last spring, and these are for a month. In the coming weeks, we will certainly be able to see whether reducing the number of contacts has contributed to reducing the number of infections. I'm sure it shows with a reference. There are some signs. We're monitoring the situation. And there is always the question of whether any further restrictions are needed. We do not see this need at first, but it is certainly not possible to close this issue either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U13	Let's go to the next question. It will be presented by Eduard Odines and will be answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! First of all, I congratulate you on your very active activity over the last few weeks in combating the consequences of the corona crisis in the education system, as well as for the communication and all the measures you have come up with in recent weeks. However, we know that not all measures are suitable for all students and teachers, and we know that preparatory courses for exams, for example, are not available to Russian-speaking students in Russian. So there's still a chance to improve the situation. All the measures you have talked about relate to this year's spring summer period. At the same time, you have informed the public that the Ministry has also drawn up a multi-annual COVID exit strategy. It will probably look a little further and take more account of the impact of this crisis on the educational divides that the Prime Minister spoke about yesterday in this big Chamber. Could you please remove a little mystery story and introduce us to this multi-annual strategy for exiting the crisis in the education system? How can we reduce growing inequalities and level out about a year's gap?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U15	First of all, thank you for your good words. It has been a very difficult time, and we have immediately tried to provide as much support as possible for schools. As far as learning gaps are concerned, I say that the quickest and cheapest way is to prevent these gaps. We have already made exceptions to schools, so children who are not well suited for distance learning can be invited to school for individual consultations today. I ask that this possibility be actually used in schools, because if the learning gaps are getting worse, it will be much more difficult to deal with them later. We really have also offered to help teachers in the form of extra labour. We have 250 students who are ready to go to schools to help and are gone, and there are 110 schools who have announced that they need this help. In addition, we have also offered substitute teachers to schools. You referred to graduate prep courses. They are very popular, already thousands of young people have registered for them, and I believe there will be more. Now from this longer view. In the longer view, I would divide our activities into three blocks. First of all, all that concerns, specifically, the smoothing of learning gaps, or equalisation training. To this end, we have established programs that can be used when a child enters a new school level, such as a vocational school or a higher education institution, so that the first thing you can do is to deal with his or her learning gaps. I'm sure you'll have to deal with learning gaps when you change classes. These programmes are very large and very large, also financially large. In order to identify the learning gaps at all, we need diagnostic tests. This is a separate area that we are dealing with. We already have diagnostic tests to measure the current level of students' learning outcomes. So we know how to deal personally with children who have had a learning gap. These diagnostic tests we're developing. A separate block is the whole subject matter of study property. Distance learning has shown that the greatest gap has arisen in real subjects. Hopefully, by autumn, we will be able to complete the 8th, 9th, 11th and 12th grade mathematics digital study center, which includes video lessons and includes the same diagnostic tests that can measure where the child has reached through learning, and teachers will automatically receive feedback. So, yes, there is certainly a need to deal with the educational gaps that have arisen during distance learning, not only this spring and autumn, but also in the years to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U16	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! For the nearest year, school studies have taken place online, i.e. via the Internet. But how and what activities have been taken into account for families and homes where the Internet has not reached? We have a lot of areas where there is no Internet connection. What about families who do not have the Internet or families who do not have the resources, i.e. computers, to participate in online learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U18	Thank you for your question. This is a very important problem so that during distance learning, children are not excluded from teaching due to technical means. Even after last year's spring experience, the Ministry of Education and Research, in cooperation with the Child Protection Association and local authorities, mapped out children and families who do not have a computer or the necessary Internet connection. After all, there are families with many children who need multiple computers. I am very grateful to the Child Welfare Association and the local authorities for getting this map done. Now, in March, we should reach 1,200 computers for families in need, and with an additional budget, we will get more money, so we will order 1,400 computers very quickly. Let us hope that most of the need will be met. Schools also have the right to rent their computers home to their children when they see that there is a need. As far as internet access is concerned, this is once again the right theme setting. For example, when I spoke to the director of the music school in Võru, he said that they can do very well in teaching from a distance, there is readiness, but the problem is that children do not have a strong enough internet in their homes to participate in high-quality classes. In the extra budget, we got one million so that local authorities could give more internet access to families with Internet problems, so that children could participate in distance learning video lessons with more quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U19	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U20	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Minister, for this review. As a remark, I would add that quite a number of these activities are linked to the additional budget you have mentioned. But I would just like to remind you that the additional budget has not yet been adopted; it has not even been handed over to the Riigikogu; these are all just plans. But I'm coming to the teachers. We have been discussing this with you and talking about the fact that, in addition to students in this corona crisis, teachers have also suffered from both physical and mental health. Thank you for the support line you've opened for the teachers. But you have also mentioned or suggested in the Committee on Culture that you are applying for additional funds from the budget to compensate teachers for overtime. With this problem of overtime, politicians have been approached by directors of municipal schools as well as state schools; this is an all-Estonian problem. You have promised to stand up for this in the state budget negotiations. However, in one interview you have said that no matter what you say to the Minister of Finance, he still says there is no money. How about that? Have you requested additional resources for the schools to compensate for overtime and what answer have you received from the Minister of Finance? Is it possible to move forward with what you assumed there was no money, or is it possible with this issue, and we see some progress here, and the teachers will also be paid for this heavy overtime?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U21	Thank you for your question. Firstly, with an additional budget, we will receive EUR 14,4 million. But already this year, the Ministry of Education, using its own resources, is contributing 8.2 million euros to leveling out learning gaps and distance learning, so we have a total of more than 22 million euros to use this year. As far as possible, we will certainly also use the European Union's resources to support schools and teachers. This statement, which I said, was taken from an interview almost a month ago. I said the Minister of Finance says no to everything. This cannot be said today because we are making an additional budget and the education sector has received additional resources. Yes, I proposed that teachers be paid for overtime, but this proposal was not approved in the negotiations on the additional budget. We know that according to studies, 75% of teachers say that during distance training, their workload has increased, 30% say that it has increased significantly. And when you ask the teachers what has caused the extra work, it turns out that the extra work has been primarily caused by the preparation of video lessons. For example, in Britain, a study has been carried out that a teacher takes 12 academic hours to prepare a video lesson. In addition, the feedback and evaluation of students also requires time. Yes, we have tried to give schools extra labour right now in order to reduce the workload of teachers a little. But it is quite clear that it does not seem fair that teachers have had to work overtime so long and that it has not been remunerated. We will continue the negotiations on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U22	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U23	The next question is question No 3, submitted by Helle-Moonika Helme and answered by the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab as Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U24	A good minister in the duties of Prime Minister! It seems that you have already managed more or less with restrictions, while you have deliberately or accidentally retained some of the differences that have created certain injustices and also a health threat. My question is this: how long are beauty salons officially kept open? In relation to them, this is, on the one hand, unequal treatment because they do not have enough customers to earn their income but, on the other hand, they also do not qualify as beneficiaries. On the other hand, it is a sector where customers who go there are still in close contact with the service provider for a long time. For example, solariums are used as a reference. They're closed, even though the technology there is that the attendant practically doesn't even have contact with the client. And yet they're stuck. After all, the purpose of the restrictions is to protect our medical system from overload. Let us remind you that the Prime Minister made a very emotional statement on social media yesterday, also inviting private sector nurses to help hospitals, because the situation must have been very bad. And that's it, let's admit it. That's why I'm asking why the beauty service is still open. There is a popular belief that perhaps because the ladies of the ministers and some of the members of the scientific council sometimes want to get their hair done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U25	Thank you for your question. As you know, the current restrictions have not been imposed because of good life, but the reason is that the spread of the virus increased very quickly, in a week or two, and it certainly had to be intervened quite resolutely. I'm glad the government made those decisions. In making these decisions, we relied on the proposals of the Scientific Advisory Board, listening, of course, to the proposals of the Health Board and the business sector, so that they have something to propose, how the restrictions can be applied in a way that makes them more sensible. For example, one thing that is possible in the case of trade by way of exception is co-selling and not only in food stores, but also in other shops. As far as I know, construction and flower shops have an organized drive-in opportunity. Such reasonable exceptions may be made. As far as services are concerned, hairdressers, beauty salons, we did not close them last spring either. I would like to remind you that even during an emergency, they remained open. And that time, as we discussed which restrictions to apply in different sectors, the Scientific Advisory Board did not propose that they should be closed down. They are certainly not open for the ladies of ministers and the ladies of the Riigikogu. Everyone needs a haircut. My own experience tells me very few people go there. I try to walk as rarely as possible under these conditions. In fact, the same complaining, they complain that they are not closed, and they say that if we shut them down, they would have an additional argument to apply for benefits. It is likely that, if this wage subsidy, which was last spring, comes again in April and is also reviewed in March, everything is heading towards the fact that companies will no longer be limited by the codes of EMTAK, among which some codes tended to be left out, but all businesses, the whole business sector, if their turnover has decreased sufficiently, will have the opportunity to apply for wage subsidy. And in case the service providers, be they hairdressing or beauty salons, have also lost their turnover, they can basically apply for support, even though their doors are currently open. So that's the exception. But, of course, I can assure you, today it was mentioned here that, with restrictions, this was our principle in the previous government, too, should also come with subsidies. We have quite quickly reached the additional budget that we hope to send to the Riigikogu today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U26	Helle-Moonika Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U27	I will address another issue with my second question, which may not be so much related to restrictions, but it seems to be quite acute in society. This is related to vaccine damage. We are in a situation where some vaccines have already shown some serious problems. At present, these problems are linked to one particular vaccine across Europe, but it is not excluded that they will come with others. This has quite clearly led to opposition to vaccination. It's perfectly understandable because we all have the one and only life. Allegedly, Estonia has signed a WHO agreement which exempts pharmaceutical companies from any liability. If that is the case, should not the state itself create some kind of fund that compensates our citizens for the damage to their health? We need to be very clear, especially in the current situation, where people's disaffection with regard to vaccination is increasing and the country wants to contribute another EUR 150,000 to propaganda or to inviting people to vaccinate, we actually have to communicate very clearly as a country that the state is not leaving anyone alone on this issue. I am referring to those who have had side effects and have had health problems. There have been deaths. My question is whether we should perhaps consider creating such a national fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U28	Thank you for the current question. I guess we've all heard different messages from different countries in the last few days. This hope, which has been here since autumn, that if we get enough people vaccinated, we can also brake the spread of the pandemic, not only by one country, but worldwide, this hope will continue. You also know that there are initially three vaccine manufacturers and suppliers whose vaccines are also coming to Estonia and whose vaccines have been approved by the European Medicines Agency and the European Commission. One more is likely to be approved and will also come to Estonia so that we can vaccinate people with it. In terms of side effects, I am not an expert and the decision that we have to make, for example, with this AstraZeneca, which has been so much discussed, is still made by experts. As far as I know, when considering and reviewing tomorrow or the next few days, all the possible cases of vaccination in Europe (all of these side effects and other effects) also occur in the European Medicines Agency. The European Medicines Agency and then the European Commission should also assess what happens to AstraZeneca. Some countries have already temporarily stopped vaccination. However, experts, the European Medicines Agency and the WHO have said that there should be no particularly significant side effects. They're no exception, but all vaccines have some side effects. It is understood that these vaccines have been developed very quickly and that it is unlikely that the long gauntlet that usually comes with the production and development of vaccines will last for 5 to 10 years will have failed. As far as I'm concerned, we haven't given any form of billing to any pharmaceutical company. If the damage is caused by the medicine, then the pharmaceutical company is still responsible. There was a discussion about whether the difference between the first and second injections could be extended. Our Agency of Medicines and the Ministry of Social Affairs clearly negotiated with the vaccine manufacturer that if we do so, whether the responsibility remains with the vaccine manufacturer. If we had the certainty [that responsibility lies with the vaccine manufacturer], a recommendation was made that yes, we can prolong the difference between the first dose and the second dose. The argument was that we checked precisely whether we are now taking this responsibility from the vaccine manufacturer in any way if we change these conditions and the injection intervals ourselves. That is a brief answer. But the subject is, of course, complicated, difficult. The main thing is that we are following the decisions that come from the European Medicines Agency and the WHO, and we will certainly react operationally when serious things are discovered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U29	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U30	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You said you didn't know such an agreement that responsibility would remain with the state. I suggest you take up the agreement between Jüri Ratas and the WHO. Under this agreement, each country is responsible for the consequences on its own. The second contact person for the performance of this contract is Martin Kadai. A citizen wrote to me and told me about his problem. He approached an insurance provider and wanted to know if he was protected by life insurance in case he had to be vaccinated against the COVID-19 and there would be complications. He asked for an answer by e-mail. The answer came from Mandatum Life that we thank you for the letter and that you will be protected in the event of death after COVID-19, but there is no protection against the vaccine. But insurance is for an accident. I now come to the main point of my question. It is known that there has been no official confirmation of these vaccines yet, and everyone is in the research stage. In this very hall, Tanel Kiki said that we have used this vaccine conditionally. Please tell us now in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, under which conditions the government has taken a decision to use these vaccines conditionally. Since I assume you do not know this anyway, please send these terms to the members of the Riigikogu in writing. I hope that prayer was understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U31	Thank you for your question. Prayer was understandable. I can't tell you exactly what was in the agreement with the WHO right now, I haven't exactly studied it. I know the general information that has been given: we do not take any responsibility for vaccine manufacturers. But I'm sure I'll specify it and give you an answer. What does "conditionally" mean? This process is still such that, without being described for a long time, these vaccines have had to undergo certain tests, clinical trials, etc., and only then can they apply for a medicinal product authorisation. Yes, the European Union has agreed in principle that these vaccines will be provisionally authorised by the European Medicines Agency and endorsed by the Commission. Once the approved authorisation has been obtained, these vaccines are basically also available in Estonia. Let's see what the terms are, I really don't know. If any problems occur during the use of the vaccine, then our competent authority is still to evaluate it by the Estonian Medicines Agency, which is part of the European Medicines Agency network. He is the one who can tell you whether or not there are problems and, if necessary, stop certain medicines or vaccines. I hope that this will become clearer in the coming weeks or in the coming days, and we will be able to give a clear signal regarding the use of one vaccine or another. I'm not an expert who can evaluate vaccines more accurately. I trust the experts who make these decisions. We have an immunoprophylaxis commission who, as far as I know yesterday, considered these things, looked at the data that has now returned from those vaccinated in Estonia, also looked at the data from other countries, the European Union data, and based on them, it was decided that, at least from the current knowledge, it has not been proven that any serious illness or death is related to the vaccine. First of all, we have to prove it. Each vaccine has a minor side effect, which we also know about traditional vaccines. There are side effects. Whether the effects and side effects of corona vaccines are so severe must be demonstrated by an examination of the relevant agencies and competent authorities. I hope we get those answers in the near future. But in general, I still say that we need to vaccinate when we get these questions straight and do it as soon as possible to get the limit on the spread of the virus. I don't think we have any other options.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U33	There's a hand up on the premier Saaremäe. Is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U34	Yeah, I have a procedural question. Chairman of the Riigikogu, perhaps you will explain, because I have only been in opposition for some time, what the order of questioning is still like. Can the first question be asked by those who have registered to their first question, and then by the first question to be specified? Or is it that, as happened with Eduard Odinets, he asked one question, in the meantime Kert Kingo asked the question, and only then could Eduard ask his second question? Please, maybe you could make that clear to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U35	Yes, indeed, the possibility of asking a question is open to pre-registered questioners, and they also have the opportunity to ask a more specific question. But if they have not pressed the button, then it is possible that other members of the Riigikogu who wish to ask may come in. If at this time the button is also pressed by the registered queryer, he can in any case ask, no matter how many people who want to ask have pressed the button in the meantime. However, if the registered queryer does not press the button to ask the question to be specified, he or she will not get this option. There is no obligation to ask a more specific question. I hope I made myself clear. In any case, the person asking the question to be specified shall be given the opportunity to ask. But let's get to the next question. The questioner is Üllar Saaremäe and is answered by Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U36	Thank you very much, Mr President. You've made this system very clear to me. Thank you. Dear Minister, We know that the Estonian language situation in Ida-Virumaa is difficult, both in schools and elsewhere. However, information has recently come to the public that the Lyganuse Municipality, led by the Reform Party, is planning to complete basic education at the Lyganuse School with a long history. Already from this autumn, a school that was only recently one of the best upper secondary schools in Estonia and which was turned into a basic school a few years ago is wanted to make a three-class elementary school and move these three remaining classes to the school cafeteria so that a nursing home can be housed in a specially built school building. Of course, they will also fade into three classes soon, which is obvious, although in the last year the number of students has increased to 66. Grown! The level is good, the plan is to design a nature education centre there. The Lyganuse School is located in the most historic place in Lyganuse rural municipality, a parish centre with a long history of education. The destruction of this school is cutting up historical roots. Graduation of basic education in Estonian Lüganus is a blow to the already fragile situation of the Estonian language in Ida-Virumaa. The directing of Estonian and Russian children to one of the primary schools in Kiviõli also threatens the cultural identity of Estonian children, which the new mixed school environment may not support. Minister, how do you intend to stop the attempt to undermine this senseless Estonian and local school education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U37	Thank you for your question. First of all, of course, I am about to say that regulating the school network is a matter of autonomy for the local government. The state is not going to organise a school network instead of local governments. It is up to the local government to decide how this is done. When I look at the education network of the municipality of Lüganuse as a minister, I see that there are currently eight children's and general education institutions in the municipality of Lyganuse. If you look at the number of children in the Lüganuse area in general, in the last eight years it has decreased by 151 children. And if you look at the ten-year forecast, the decline will continue. However, what you said that the number of schoolchildren in Lygan has increased is, of course, a good sign. What still worries me as a minister is that the average wage of the teachers in Lüganuse municipality is lower than the average wage of teachers in Ida-Virumaa in general, as much as 10%, and compared to the average salary of Estonian teachers, it is 13% lower. This is a sign that despite the fact that the municipality has added extra money and despite the fact that the state has given Lüganus a 38% increase in child bounty, it has not been possible to pay the teachers a competitive salary. And the salaries of school leaders are 20% lower than in Estonia on average. So it is clear that the education network of the municipality of Lüganus should be organized by the Ministry of Education and Research, but how the local government does it is already up to the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U38	Üllar Saaremäe, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U39	Good President! Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. My next question requires a slightly longer introduction. The Estonian-language rural school has a special role, which is not measured by money. That is probably what we all agree with. The petition for maintaining the school expresses the fear that the library and youth centre will also disappear from Lüganus' village with the disappearance of the primary school. At the same time, several changes to the environment of the municipality are planned, such as a nuclear plant, limestone quarry and a new oil shale mine. Since, as we know, Estonian natives live mainly on land in Ida-Virumaa, both the irreversible change in the living environment and the extinction of a small rural school with a local tradition makes it increasingly impossible to live in the area. I am thinking in particular of young people leaving this region. The local people in the historical sphere of Lyganus and also in Maidla are opposed to this proposed crazy reform. After the closure of the school of Lüganus, Maidla's order will also come, and the historic school will also be dissolved this year. Yeah, it's like kids are allowed to go to school, but the locals don't really believe that anymore. Minister, thank you very much. How is it possible that the local regions of a large rural municipality will not be heard when making decisions concerning them themselves? And how will you, as a minister, convince the local people to stay in the region if they see that singleness does not take absolute account of them and their efforts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U40	Thank you. As far as I know, in March the municipality of Lyganus has held three meetings with the community to discuss these reforms, and this is where it is where it is to express its concerns and find a possible compromise. However, if you say that the problem really is that young people are leaving, what is keeping young people from home? I think one of the reasons young people want to be in their own home is because of quality education. And we need to see how to provide young people with the highest possible level of education in these limited circumstances. If, in the area of Lüganus, teachers receive systematically lower salaries than on average in Estonia, although the municipality pays more and the state pays more, can we be sure that these children will receive a good education? However, it is only five kilometers between Lyganus and Kiviõli; it is not a very long distance. But in all such reforms, especially when it is planned to put together a school in Estonian and Russian, it must be done with great knowledge, training teachers and developing teaching methods. Surely this cannot be done in a way that is sluggish; it must be a well-prepared reform. I hope they do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U41	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U42	Thank you. Madam Secretary! Not too far from the Lüganuse rural municipality schools are Kohtla-Järve city schools. The future of Kohtla-Järve's only Estonian-language school is a matter of my heart. Probably also in this region, the future of the Estonian-language education there depends on the future of this school. We already know that more than half of the students in this Estonian-language school have other native languages. In recent years, however, Kohtla-Järve Järve School has not received support from the state to cope with this growing student body in other languages. I know you have plans to support this school in order to deal with Russian students who must study in Estonian. How far have you come with these plans? How much money have you found in the extra budget or in your internal resources to help the school because you have promised to support it financially? Another issue that has to do with this is that if we want children to learn Estonian and love Estonian, they could first love their native language. But we know that according to a government regulation, children whose native language is Russian must learn Russian as a foreign language at Estonian school and do not have the opportunity to acquire it as a native language. What plans do you have to resolve this issue so that those Russian-speaking children who are increasingly coming to the Estonian-speaking school can acquire their native language as a native language rather than as a foreign language?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U43	Thank you for your question. And I also thank you for the meeting we had, Eduard, with you at Kohtla-Järve Järve School. It was a very eye-opening meeting for me, too. We know that the state has so far not dared to reform the transition to education in Estonian; we still have two parallel education systems. At the same time, parents have shown very clearly that they want their children to study in an educational institution in Estonian. The number of Russian-speaking children studying in an educational institution in Estonian is increasing every year. Indeed, Kohtla-Järve Järve School is one of these schools, but there are still a large number of children in other languages. I am very sorry that the state has not yet systematically supported the educational institutions in Estonian, where many Russian or non-Russian children are present. We're trying to fix this. From the autumn of this year, we will pilot a new financing model, where there will be additional support from the Estonian-language kindergartens and general education schools with more children in other languages. Our aim is to make this support as flexible as possible so that every school can decide for itself how to use the extra money. But the aim is to help children in other languages to adapt more quickly to the educational environment in Estonian. To this end, we have found resources in the Ministry and we hope that in the autumn we will see how it will work. It is also a very important issue that Russian-speaking children and children in Estonian can learn their native language as their mother tongue. It is true today that when a child goes to a school in Estonian or other language, he or she learns Estonian with children in Estonian as a native language and Russian with all of them as a first or second foreign language. This is certainly not appropriate. There is a need to change the curriculum, and that is definitely what we are planning to do. It does not contribute to the development of the language of Estonian-speaking children, nor does it contribute to the development of the language of Russian-speaking children. It has to be changed. Thank you for raising this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U44	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U45	The next question is question No 5, which is presented by Merry Aart and answered by the Minister of the Environment, Tõnis Mölder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We have 2.33 million hectares of forest land, 48% of which is private forest, over 25% protected. It is as if property should be sacred and untouchable. For example, let us look at the expansion of Alutaguse National Park and the protection of the flying squirrel there, which is a very topical issue at the moment. The area of the National Park is 44300 hectares and it is wanted to expand. In 2019, 51 [lendorava] sites were found, with a long-term target of 250 sites. How big should we make this park? Potential sites will also be protected, as a flying squirrel may come someday. These restrictions shall be determined without the involvement of forest owners. This is at least what I have been told, and I have also read it in one of the 2019 Bachelor's thesis. The owner of the forest usually finds out that something has happened, through very indirect channels. This is also bad for the forest: there are rots caused by enlarged fungi, damage to the reeds, windbreaks, discharges. The owner can't even clean the flatwood because it has a negative effect on flying squirrels. Unreasonable restraint has caused owners to do an emergency cutting much earlier than they would otherwise have done. And no one's going to report the squirrel. Here comes my question. How much forest land do you think could be protected in Estonia? What is the reasonable balance? And before any restrictions are imposed, is there a proper socio-economic analysis, such as the cost of protecting a single squirrel per year? There are a great many people in the protected area who live there and whose income depends directly on the forest and its forest management.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U47	Thank you, good President of the Riigikogu. A good member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. If we are talking about how much natural resources are protected in Estonia, then indeed, you rightly stated that we have 19.4% of the land as a whole and about 28% of the sea area as a whole. Over the last five years, this area has grown very much, approximately 55,000 hectares. This means that we are moving from year to year rather in the direction that this percentage will increase over and over, both on land and at sea, with the creation of new protected areas. One of the main species, as you yourself referred to, that we have been protected and that is why we are introducing new protection restrictions, is a flying squirrel. Previous forecasts have shown that by 2020 or 2021 the squirrel in Estonia will be extinct, but thank God this has not happened. This shows that all these steps and the nature conservation proposals and changes that we have made, including the restrictions on private countries, have prevented this. The flying squirrel remains a species that exists in Estonia, a protected species, a species of the first category, which means that all its associated habitats, valuables, must be protected. In particular, this has to do with allowing the flying squirrel to continue to live in Estonia. Now, your question was more specifically related to Alutaguse. Yes, the expansion of the protected area in the area has been a major response. First of all, I do not agree with one of the arguments you have put forward that there is no involvement of landowners or local authorities in this process. I know very clearly that now, in the first half of the year, when we are expanding this Alutaguse restricted zone, we have sent a message to all landowners that their land has been taken into consideration either in the target zone or in the restricted zone. We expect feedback from all landowners by 15 April. After receiving feedback, we will select, in cooperation with the local authorities and communities, the possible parcels that we consider to be protected to be justified. And only in the second half of this year will the Minister be able to decide whether to extend it to Alutaguse... [[We've lost contact.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U48	The picture fell, and we can't hear you. We seem to have lost contact with the Minister of the Environment quite permanently. Let's...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U49	Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U50	Yeah, here we go.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U51	I answered the previous question, but I don't know if I've been asked a new question in the meantime, I didn't hear that. Did you hear the end of my first question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U52	Didn't really hear the ending.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U53	I just wanted to add so much to Merry Aart's question that... There could be video footage. All right, all right! ... I also wanted to add that we expect feedback from all landowners until 15 April and, after that, in the second half of the year, we will have the right and opportunity, in cooperation with the community and local authorities, to give feedback to landowners on whether and how we will proceed with the restrictions on the permanent residences and the protection zone of the flying squirrel in the area. So this argument, which may have been that we are not involved in the community on this issue, is certainly not true. All landowners will know about this and be able to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U54	Thank you. Merry Aart, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U55	Thank you for your answer. I am simply explaining that my data was taken from the 2019 Bachelor's thesis, in which a large number of forest owners were interviewed on this subject and came out of it. When things have gotten better, it's good to hear it. But I would really like an answer to that second question. What are these socio-economic analyses? What, then, should the people there be doing to get out of there? Will they be able to receive fair compensation? And how much does this flying squirrel cost society, for example? There are certainly other species here that must be kept and the species must be kept, I do not want to say that they do not need to be kept, but there is a reasonable balance somewhere. How much does protecting a flying squirrel cost society, for example? Do you have any information on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U56	Thank you for your clarification. For starters, yes, indeed, a flying squirrel, as I said, is a protected species of the first category in Estonia. In cooperation with the European Union and other partners, we have launched a number of projects specifically to protect the flying squirrel, including the creation of an added value for protected parcels. [[We're breaking up.]] Its total cost is approximately EUR 1.5 million if we are talking purely about granting protection to a flying squirrel. Now, how much State support will be granted to those private land owners for whom we will restrict economic activity on their parcels as a result of the land being protected. First of all, as far as Alutagus is concerned, I believe that there should be about a few hundred hectares of this area, which is in private hands, the rest of the protected area is all owned by the State Forest Management Centre, the State and all of us. Among the compensation mechanisms are a number of measures. One is that if a plot of land is protected, it will be partially or totally exempt from land tax. The second is that if the parcel remains in the target protection zone, it will be possible to obtain additional financial support from the State, including for parcels in Natura sites, depending on the number of hectares. The third is that, in this year's negotiations on the state budget strategy, we have issued an additional application for the payment of additional aid to restricted zones outside the Natura site and the target zone. I think a reasonable balance must be found here. On this issue, I understand very well those people who, due to restrictions, do not manage the forest. But I also consider it justified that nature conservation-critical and valuable objects can be protected as a whole. There is a need to obtain additional resources here so that the compensation mechanism is as reasonable and as good as possible, because we do not want people living in rural areas outside large settlements to lose their jobs because we have imposed such restrictions that economic activity is no longer sensible. This is certainly a place of seeking a balance between conservation and management. There is certainly a politically difficult issue to focus on. This has not been done by the previous ministers, but if there is a political desire, we can discuss it with Parliament as a whole. Historically, it has been possible for landowners to be offered a land change deal. Laws do not allow this at the moment, but if there is political will and desire, this debate can be held. This is certainly also a possible compensatory measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U57	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister, I have a question for you, which also has a small preliminary story. As we know, when Crimea was annexed, the European Union imposed sanctions on Russia and all these supplies of canned, cheese and other goods to Russia were, in principle, suspended. However, it later became clear that some German large companies had managed to send the necessary, very important equipment to [Russian] power plants and they did so through third countries. There was no formal deal. It is well known to the public that some time ago a Russian ship and one Estonian ship had some sort of re-exportation of substances in this nature reserve, to which the people were very strongly opposed. My question is this: did not any of the Estonian vessels participate in an analogous operation where something was pumped from a Russian ship to an Estonian ship or vice versa and thereby formally passed the embargo on certain goods to Russia? The question arises as to why they didn't do it somewhere in the port. Why was this done in the nature reserve and who received the financial income from the transaction? If you say there was no such thing, please explain how you know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U59	First of all, about pumping products from ship to ship...... [[We're hacking, there's no sound.]] I consider this to be very important in this respect, as well as close contact with the various interest groups. First of all, coming back to this topic of the STS, I recall that about a year ago the Riigikogu has approved a bill relating to handling [dangerous substances] in water and operations in water, and the Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk has approved Regulation No 51. On this basis, it is indeed such a sad situation that it is possible to conduct STS transactions, i.e. to ship-to-ship various petroleum products and other goods, in the Pakri storage area and adjacent anchorages. Now, from what you indirectly referred to. First of all, according to the information currently known to me, most of the ships that have performed STS operations in Estonian waters over the last few years have not been ships flying the flag of Estonia. These are ships from other countries that carry out their operations in Estonian waters. In accordance with the laws of our country and the regulations in force, they will be able to do so. Personally, from the point of view of nature and the environment, I find it unreasonable that this activity can be carried out in conservation areas. I believe that the regulation No 51 adopted by the Government of the Republic last summer must be reviewed and that it should not be possible for savings areas to carry out activities with such a high environmental risk. Another important point that you referred to in your question, I think that this is an important question and the correct comment on this topic, is that both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should analyse more clearly that if STS activities take place in Estonian waters, what benefits will the Estonian state as a whole benefit from it. Yes, we know that the recreational craft companies that are helping to carry out this operation are indeed receiving certain commercial profits or economic benefits. We know that dealerships are also making a profit. But I do not think that the Estonian economy as a whole will win much of this dangerous activity in nature. I think this entire tax side must definitely be reviewed. And the third thing is that I think that more and more anchor areas should be reduced, where all this STS operation can be carried out within the framework of the law, because, once again, I do not consider it justified to do so in Estonian waters as much and as much as it has been done in the last two or three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U60	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U61	Next, Mr Metsoja asks and is answered by the Minister of the Environment, Tõnis Mölder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U62	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister of the Environment, My question really concerns the forestry development plan. It can be said that, for various reasons, this subject has been stuck behind a stump or tree for a long time. If you read the plan of the government for a hundred days, this topic has been formulated and placed in an important place under the general objective of green Estonia. The letter states that an agreement is being sought on the forestry development plan, involving stakeholders on an equal footing. There is no doubt that the debate on forestry has grown to a very large extent - forestry as an eco-environment - and nature conservation paradigm. In fact, it is a good thing that people want to have a say on this subject, but I think it is very important in the industrial sector's view that an agreement is still reached, because every business sector needs confidence. Naturally, this is intended to preserve our vital living and natural environment. Questions for you: what steps have you taken, what state is our forestry development plan and when can we hear more positive news? Are you also planning to step up nature conservation measures, which are particularly relevant to forest land, so that, yet, the Natura site and the non-Natura site subsidies paid to owners are in some form equal during the next financial period of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U63	Thank you for that question. First of all, I come to the forestry development plan. If I am not mistaken and my memory does not deceive me, your good party partner and former Minister of the Environment, Siim Valmar Kisler, started drawing up the forestry development plan. In my opinion, it was he who, by virtue of this process, took up the Estonian Forest Act in order to establish the entire Estonian forest policy for the next ten years. In the next ten years......for forests, how much we manage forests and what is the social and economic dimension of all this forestry policy. [[The connection's breaking up.]] I think he did it very well in this sense, that he tried to approach as wide a surface as possible and go very clearly in such a great way of inclusion. If I am not mistaken, the Government of the Republic approved the preparation of the development plan in 2019 and this process started. A very large-scale body was set up, if I am not mistaken, of over 40 people-organisations who discussed these activities for a very long time. Involvement, the multiplicity of opinions was very high. Therefore, in the second half of 2020, perhaps around the 2019 and 2020 shifts, there was such a thing that many people in the Steering Board felt this perhaps not very good cooperation when drawing up the Forest Development Plan. There were many communication problems and substantive problems, and my predecessor, Mr Epler, did indeed decide to disband the entire forest development plan [stop the debate] and the governing body. One of the main problems why the forestry development plan did not move so quickly was that we did not find strategic environmental impact assessors, partners. Many of the public procurements involved were lost. And if your question was, where are we today with this process, the first positive message is that we now have a partner to strategically assess environmental impacts. We have a contract with him as the winner of the public procurement, so in that sense we are moving forward at a rapid pace with the forestry development plan. I hope that in the coming weeks we will also be able to approve a new Steering Board, at the moment we are in the negotiating phase with people. A total of eight or nine persons should be included in the new Steering Board. Most of them, I stress the word'most', are active and respected Estonian scientists, professors, experts. Some experts are also from outside Estonia. So we're going to go on with a slightly different focus. This, of course, does not mean that all the work done in previous years would somehow go into the drawer. All the thoughts that have been put forward in the previous engagement process will also come to the board's table. I am optimistic, and I believe that by the end of 2022 we will be able to present this document to Parliament and Parliament will be able to process it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U64	Andres Metsoja, a more specific question, please! [[Silence.]] Do we have a connection problem? Mr. Metsoya, we can't hear you, we can't see you. I'll see you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U65	Thank you. Do you copy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U67	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Indeed, Isamaa was at the start of the forestry development plan, the development plan for the new period. We wish you every success in realising this social agreement. Now, if you look at the plan for a hundred days, it sets out a plan for a biodiversity development plan with scientists as one of its sub-objectives. My question is this: is the development plan for forestry and biodiversity any way that the government intends to link to each other, so that they are interdependent? Is there any assumption that one of them should be ready before the other? What kind of interaction have you thought of? I also repeat this very important question of ownership that, indeed, protecting nature is very sensible in the public interest, but it cannot be done narrowly on the owner's wallet. Is Estonia taking a step towards ensuring that both Natura and non-Natura restricted zones receive equal treatment from the owner's perspective that, if we defend, we will also compensate? [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U68	Thank you. First of all, what I want to say is that the question was to be heard a little bit chopped up. I know you're the great leader of the last mile project, and I hope that the last mile of wire will reach you in Pärnumaa, so the internet will be better. But I do not rule out that internet access here in the Ministry of Tallinn can be patchy. So let's hope we can fix this first. As far as I am concerned, you first asked two questions relating to the development plans and specifically the 100-day work programme of the Government of the Republic. It must be noted here that we are not talking about the development plan for both activities, but we are talking about the development plan for both forestry and the environmental development plan, which includes the development plan for biodiversity that you have referred to. Indeed, the process is that under the environmental development plan we see five or six chapters. In the case of two of these chapters, you highlighted the fact that one really is forestry. But once again, forestry is more general in [the environmental development plan], of a more environmentally sound nature, and the forestry development plan is drawn up as a completely separate document. Another important chapter of the [Environmental Development Plan], which has also been marked as important in the coalition, is that we want to place particular emphasis on biodiversity (both in urban environment and in the settlement area) and on this whole biodiversity strategy and related challenges. In cooperation with scientists, we would like to place particular emphasis on this particular issue within the framework of the environmental development plan. I think that this first point, to launch an environmental development plan, has already been done in our 100-day work programme. Last Thursday, the Government of the Republic approved its initiation. So once again, these two processes are going in parallel, they're kind of related, but they don't completely overlap. The forestry development plan is a separate document, its [need to produce] comes from the forestry law, and the environmental development plan is a separate document in the same way. The second question, which I did not answer in the past, was simply a lack of time. It seemed to me that you wanted me to answer once again the question of whether and how additional resources would be given to private landowners who would be subject to some or other restrictions. As I said, in the country's budget strategy, we have made an additional request on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment for additional funds to compensate for constraints on private land. I consider it very reasonable that not only the parcels in the destination zone, but also the parcels in the protection zone, would be covered by this compensatory mechanism. As I said, it is not fully compensated, but there could be a certain balance in both the private landowner's and the state's view. One important point that I would like to emphasise is that we spend about EUR 2 million each year on buying out protected plots of land from private landowners. They therefore have the opportunity to dispose of the plot of land at a certain fair price to the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U69	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U70	No, thank you, I don't want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U71	Thank you. In that case, I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U72	We go to question seven and Paul Puustusmaa presents it. He is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U73	Good minister! Bureaucracy is an exhausting phenomenon for our country. It also humiliates our country in the eyes of the people. Bureaucracy is, of course, expensive, ridiculous and clumsy. It has been discussed and will continue to be discussed. It is permitted that, if managed, it will be carried out in the name of [reduction]. In 2016, under the auspices of the zero bureaucracy, the government, under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, started a project to reduce the bureaucracy of public authorities. The aim was to cut red tape in national administration and organisation, which would make it easier, cheaper and faster for citizens to communicate with the state. It would also make the administration of the state cheaper. We are now in 2021, five years have passed. The reduction of bureaucracy is not perceived. At the same time, the European Union is producing more and more of this, both regulations and officials' seats. In the meantime, in 2018, our own local task force produced a report on, inter alia, the reduction of national bureaucracy and the reduction of the national administrative burden. The question is this: how much red tape have we actually reduced and what is this reduction? More specifically, what has been the reduction in the number of officials in the period 2016 to 2020 - in the last five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U74	Thanks for the question, good questioner. Fighting bureaucracy is like fighting a ten-headed dragon. Indeed, since 2017, one of these activities has been the Minister of State Administration, not alone, but in cooperation with other ministries, making proposals in the government. These have mostly been activities related to the reform of the state. When we talk about the last two years, we come in the recent past, other government partners, coalition partners, and the Fatherland are also to be thanked. Together, we did a relatively important undertaking. In four ministries, the consolidation of institutions and agencies took place, which is likely to result in several hundred jobs being cut off and savings in money. Such a great consolidation has not been carried out in the history of our country before. But that doesn't mean we're just adding up some kind of authority-agencies, and we've found a lot of savings. This is preceded by very serious substantive work, and that is what we did here in 2019 to 2020 quite seriously. The aim is not just to cut something off from somewhere, but to make the same activity in this area of government better. Perhaps the result would be better, the service would be better and the aid would be better for businesses, individuals and stakeholders alike. There are many of these activities. We will continue to complete and prepare a state reform agenda with this government as well. The draft decision on state reform, Paul, has actually been working in the Riigikogu under your leadership. I hope that the Riigikogu will give its input into this. In fact, the development of our information technology and e-services is still very important in reducing red tape and administrative burdens. We have reached the point that the cross-use of data, which has been a problem, for example, with Statistics Estonia, the Tax Administration and Eesti Pank, is working, as you can see. You don't want to talk about the tax return, we've been used to it for a long time that the state is doing it in advance for the most part. However, in recent years, the statistical reports have also become more and more such that data held by the state automatically appear there. This will make life easier for people and businesses alike.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U75	Paul Puustusmaa, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U76	Thank you, good Jack! But still, it was also a question of how we are with the officials. I remind you, Jaak, of your own words that it is perfectly feasible to reduce the number of officials to about 300 per year, that is not a problem. Thus, within three years, it would be possible to reduce the number of officials by nearly 1 000. How have we progressed in this regard? How many officials have been reduced? If we look at the number of officials reduced and if there is even a reduction in the number of officials in the five-year period, 2016. Or what's going on with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U77	Thanks for the clarification. That's the thing about officials. As you know, there is a public service law under which some public employees work. They may also be officially appointed officials. But a fairly large part of it works on the basis of a contract of employment, they are state employees. I am not going to describe it for a long time, but every year the Minister of Public Administration makes an overview of how many people work in the central government, how many in the government sector and how many in the local government. In recent years, the number of employees in the central government of the country has decreased by around 300-500 people in the middle. It has happened that in some years more. I recall the year of the administrative reform and the reform of the rural governments, when the number of employees clearly fell by more than 500 per year. But I guess that's the goal to go on. All these changes, the same consolidations that I was talking about here, should actually reduce the number of employees in institutions and agencies in three years, it went on last year, so this year and next year, in stages, really, by about 300 each year. This objective could be maintained. But, as I said, the goal is not just less employees, but better results. The goal is that we are trying to achieve a better result with fewer workers. As far as figures are concerned at all, in the central government sector, there are, in fact, 8 000 state employees in ministries, agencies, offices, offices. They often juggle with terms and say that there are 132000 officials. This isn't right. This is the total number of employees in the public sector, including hospital staff, police staff, teachers, etc. When we talk about a typical official, they actually work in the central government of the country at around 8,000. That's what we're trying to reduce. If you take down 300 of the 8,000 officials every year, it's a pretty big reduction. And this must also be preceded by, or parallel to, substantive action. The amendments must be well thought out and analysed and must not make the functioning of the State or its services worse, but better. At the same time, of course, they must also lead to savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U78	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question also concerns the administrative organisation, austerity and reduction of officials in the country. As we know, the new government has lost the position of Minister of Population and Minister of Population, well, I can't say that the ministry, but at least the office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I wonder if the government made specific estimates of this. How much savings will this bring to the state budget, and how much savings will it make in recruiting officials? At the same time, I would like to remind you that the European Commission has recently set up a Commissioner for Demography. This shows that at European level, demographic issues are considered to be very, very important, but we are moving in the opposite direction. To what extent is this countercurrent movement justified by savings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U80	Thank you for your question. When it comes to how responsibility was allocated, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs, from which responsibility had been transferred to the Minister of Population of the Ministry of the Interior, received these functions back. There are quite a few areas, like you, good Mart, you know, you were your own minister. I dare confirm that demographic issues continue to be important for Estonia. I can't tell if a special minister would help solve them better or not. The loss of the position of Minister of Population in itself was not likely to bring particular savings. Those officials who deal with population policy under different ministries will pass on. We have actually discussed this topic in coalition negotiations; it concerns the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and, in certain respects, the Ministry of Culture. Everything that concerns our local population, as well as Estonians in general, our diasporas abroad, all the activities related to them and their importance we still have in mind. There are no easy choices in the field of demography. I would rather say that if we encourage motherhood and children's worry, this has been done by the Estonian state with quite generous systems, such as parental benefits, child benefits and other benefits, then it can be said that we have a certain degree of even better assumptions. But we can never say that we are satisfied with this result. Of course we want more children to be born here in Estonia. All family policies and demographic policies are welcome. There are also a number of such measures in the government's work programme, and we hope that they will be put on the table by the respective ministries. I repeat that population policy has not become any less important or hidden under linen during this government, even though there is no separate minister of population in the government. We are even better at dealing with these challenges.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U81	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U82	As we still have until the end of Question Time, all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask a question to a freely elected minister who participates in Question Time. Kert Kingo registered first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U83	Thank you, Mr President. My question is to the Prime Minister Jaak Aab. The government has built all the anticorona vaccinations. Aeroplanes are allowed to move back and forth and to bring in new strains of corona patients from other countries, finding that this does not affect anything. The vaccine is to be hoped for. But I received a response from the Health Board, where they provided these statistics: 104 people who received the first dose of chorona and 55 people who received the second dose of vaccine, among those who were vaccinated as of March 15, became ill, whereas 16 were ill later than the seventh day after the second dose. Please comment on this! How can we rely only on the vaccine if the statistics show this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U84	Thank you for your question. I didn't say we can only rely on vaccines. We are still counting on our health care system and our good frontline workers as long as we are in this pandemic situation. However, it is clear that if we are able to vaccinate more people, the likelihood of the virus spreading is lower. Bring out the numbers when many of the vaccinees may be positive again. It has never been secreted. No vaccine will provide 100% protection, you know that very well. Vaccine manufacturers themselves have demonstrated the effectiveness of their vaccine. The main thing is, however, that in most cases people who have given [after vaccination] a positive sample are asymptomatic or have a minor disease. But the probability of infection is still reduced by the number of times a person has been vaccinated. This person can carry the virus. When the vaccination started, maybe the public misunderstood that it was over now. I assure you, it will not be over immediately. If, for example, during spring or summer, a certain percentage of people are vaccinated, it would be good if we reached 70 to 80%, then the virus has not yet disappeared. For those who have been vaccinated, we have also given clear instructions that all measures to prevent the spread of the virus still need to be followed. You have to wear a mask, keep your distance. So if they think I've done the vaccine, and now I'm free of all responsibilities, that's certainly not the case. That's what we're reminding you of. The vaccine is not a magician, but it is one of the tools that will certainly help to significantly limit the spread of the virus, and that is why it is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U85	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U86	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear Jaak Aab! I'll pick up where you left off your answer. Really, the vaccine won't get us out of this situation in a few months, so we can forget about the virus. The fact that people should stay at home with symptoms and follow agreed rules to prevent the spread of the virus is also likely to be necessary in the autumn and winter next. I'm asking about that. Tomorrow, an additional draft budget will come to the Riigikogu, which will support both the health care system and the people who have been affected by the crisis. Is there also a generous sickness allowance (reimbursement from day 1) for corona positive and close contacts? As we know, people with higher incomes are often able to work remotely, but people with lower incomes still have to go to work to get the job done. If he stays at home, it will mean a significant loss of income for him. In times of crisis, it is not right to put people's livelihoods in a disproportionate way. So... [[We've lost contact.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U87	Thank you. The picture and voice fell, but the minister can answer. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U88	Yeah, I get the question. I would like to thank Riina for her attention. We really must reiterate that even if we have some people vaccinated, we still have to comply with all these same prevention requirements. We haven't made it anywhere yet. Let's hope it gets easier for summer and autumn, but I don't think that virus will be completely lost by then either. As far as the additional budget is concerned, the government was already debating last week, and found support for the draft, it should also reach the Riigikogu, which extends this temporary measure, which, as far as I know, was in place until 1 April and which provides for the payment of sickness benefit from the second day onwards. This measure has been extended until the end of this year. If, in the past, the first three days were to be without compensation, then he will now receive compensation from the second day, as was the case with the temporary measure last year and at the beginning of this year. This measure will continue until the end of this year. As far as I know, its financial impact on the budget is about EUR 12 million and is included in the additional budget. As the additional budget has already come up, I will simply inform you that we will probably try to approve it in the government this afternoon or tomorrow morning. If everything goes as expected, we will hand it over to the Riigikogu tomorrow. The total additional budget is EUR 641 million. And it is clear that the main focus is on the same issues that we discussed here today in terms of health care and the costs associated with the crisis. For example, a wage subsidy is foreseen for two months, both for March and April. Conditional negotiations are ongoing. Let's hope they ease, so all people, regardless of any EMTAK code, can get help. This support should be paid into your bank account. The reserve provides for a third month's money just in case, so that it can also be paid. In addition, various mitigation grants are foreseen. The Ministry of Culture has around 42 million euros to do so, with local authorities receiving 75 million euros. In order to support entrepreneurship, a further EUR 50 million has been earmarked, together with a number of other grants, not just wage subsidies. Education receives 12 million grants, both for wage subsidies and for summer training camps, to fill gaps in education more quickly. These sectors and areas are quite numerous in the supplementary budget. I believe it will reach the Riigikogu tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U89	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister of State Administration! Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse has recently proposed issuing visas as a priority for Ukrainian citizens going to work in the agricultural sector. The Minister noted that the work load in agriculture is beginning to increase strongly, talking about thousands of workers. How do you feel about the COVID crisis in a situation where there has been a very high level of virus penetration, at least last year, to ensure safety and mitigate risks? And how can we find jobs for our people who have become unemployed? The number of unemployed is increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U91	Thank you for your question. Definitely an important subject. I can talk about what we agreed on during the coalition negotiations. The general agreement with the Reform Party was such that there will certainly not be any very radical changes in immigration policy. The current rules apply. Yes, temporary labor can be brought in, but there are rules. But if we are now talking about this spring or summer, we must definitely assess the situation. We have also stressed in the coalition agreement that the inclusion of migrant workers depends very much on the state of our own labour market. As you mentioned, the unemployment rate in Estonia has increased, and I think it is a priority to do everything through the measures and retraining of the unemployment fund to first find a job for our own people. But, of course, I do not rule out the temporary use of migrant workers. The government has not discussed the issue of bringing in a mass. I guess it was a statement by the Minister for Rural Affairs that he has not yet brought forward proposals in his office. If he does, we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U92	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U93	Thank you, Mr President. This is a question of the Prime Minister's role as Minister of State Administration, Jaak Aabile. First of all, I would like to remind you that in my previous question, I asked you to send me a document on the basis of which Estonia conditionally accepted vaccination. Don't forget this, please send me this official document! But my question is about the coercive vaccination. As we know, there was such an incident at the Valkla nursing home that the residents there were being held and injected with COVID vaccine by military forces. When I asked Prime Minister Kaja Kallas about this, he declared in peace that there would be no compulsory vaccination in Estonia. Well, I don't know, the peasant mind tells me it's a forced vaccination. People who do not want to be vaccinated will also be subject to certain covert pressure. Both in employment contracts and even in the Defence Forces, you'll be signaled that if you don't get vaccinated, you won't fit into this working group. All of this is very similar to the America of its time, where there were "White Only" signs outside. We know very well how it ended. My question goes on in the plan that our mainstream media constantly reflects what progress has been made in Israel with regard to vaccination. But what is amazing is that we are actually in a situation where Israel has been dug into the Hague Criminal Court because it has committed crimes against humanity in connection with compulsory vaccination. What's your comment, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U94	Thank you for your question. I think I got this question here once, either in Question Time or in the process of dealing with the bill. There was also talk about this Valkla. As far as I know, the Chancellor of Justice also received a complaint about this. The Office of the Chancellor of Justice visited the premises to verify these claims and gave the government an overview of them. In particular, the Chancellor of Justice and the staff of his office, having had a thorough discussion with the wards and staff, did not find any evidence of compulsory vaccination. I can only rely on this information. If it is claimed that there is pressure or purely coercive vaccination somewhere, this must be reported and investigated by the appropriate bodies. As far as I can tell about Valkla, how much the Chancellor of Justice has informed us in his review. I don't know about Israel. I don't know the case that's been in Israel. We certainly have a rule of law, we have a clear principle that vaccination is voluntary. I hope that this will also be the case with the Riigikogu when this opportunity is given. Each person can decide for himself. If someone is exerting pressure or using some form of coercion, it is the simplest thing to say is to break the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U95	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U96	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to thank the Minister for Public Administration, who is responsible for the Prime Minister's duties. Dear Jack! You will give us much better and more informative answers today than the Prime Minister has done on any previous occasion in the Riigikogu. So thank you so much for that! My question concerns the same subject that has already been through here: it is the closure of the external border and, specifically, the introduction of the Ukrainian workforce. As we know, there is not a very reliable overview of the coronation in Ukraine, but so much we know that the disease is very common there and vaccination is practically not taking place there. According to my information, the country of Ukraine has received a few thousand doses, a few thousand doses for about 40 million people. It's not worth talking about! If, in this situation, we say that we do not have a disease across the border and that the Ukrainian seasonal labour force does not cause us problems in agriculture, then it is lying to ourselves. I would still like a very clear position: has the government discussed this and considers it possible in the current situation, even in the case of a plateau, to close the external border, or is this a completely excluded step in the view of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U97	Thank you for your question. On this last side, I can respond very firmly: we have not discussed the issue of facilitating the introduction of migrant labour. In the current situation, there are very clear rules on how people can cross the border at all. If this question arises, it must be discussed. I imagine that if, in the present situation, it is possible to enter our country in the first place, very, very harsh preventive measures will be taken. As far as border closures are concerned, as I have said once, no country, even those who have tried at least partially to close borders, has been able to prevent the spread of new strains. Closing is not a magic wand. The virus is still spreading, relatively aggressive and fast. And the numbers that show us crossing the border have decreased several times in a few months. There are relatively few people moving across the border. For Estonian citizens, we know that, on the basis of a purely constitutional basis, there are no obstacles to getting out of the country or coming back to the country. However, preventive measures are in place: when a person comes to the country, he tests or sits in isolation for 14 days. As far as I know, that's the rule. Will it be filled? The health department has recently started to control it more closely. Remember how last spring they called home and checked whether a person was still in isolation, even now and recently in a slightly larger volume. As far as foreign workers are concerned, it must certainly be discussed whether their introduction is possible and under what conditions it is possible. Let's just say that in March 2021 and during this current wave, movement is, in any case, limited and we must limit it as much as possible until the situation gets better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U98	Thank you. The clock has moved on quickly and, unfortunately, we have no more time to answer the questions. I thank all the members of the government, and I thank my honourable colleagues. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U99	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 8th working week of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to pass on a draft on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which will be approved by amending the Aliens Act, the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Educational Grants and Student Loan. This draft has been drawn up for three purposes. Firstly, in order to prevent Estonia from becoming a land of cheap inflow of labour, it inhibits technological development and changes in the economic structure and suppresses the wage levels of our people. Secondly, to stop the English-languageisation of Estonian universities at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer and support the quality of university studies. And thirdly, to comply with the Estonian Constitution, according to which the Republic of Estonia was created to ensure the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages. The implementation of the Constitution is threatened by large-scale immigration, the sensible regulation of which is the main objective of this draft. The draft has been virtually delivered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U101	Thank you! However, I believe that the draft has been sent electronically to our system. No more wishes. We have adopted one draft and the Bureau will, of course, decide on further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please check your presence!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U102	90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U103	Let us begin the discussion of today's agenda items. The first item is the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic. We need a third reading and, as usual, a third reading, we can take the floor in the negotiations with the political groups. Is that what you want to say? There is no wish for words on the political groups; we can go to the final vote. Good hall, do you mind if I don't shoot the call again because we just did the presence check? Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 293, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U104	91 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U105	Our second item on the agenda today is the third reading of Bill 115 of Amendment to § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. And now it is possible for the political groups to speak again. First on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable ambassadors from all over Estonia! Again, I am talking about the draft amendment to the law on psychiatric assistance, which is intended to allow minors to attend a psychiatrist's appointment without the parent's knowledge and consent. I stress: the bill also provides for the possibility, for example, of four, seven or 11-year-old children to go to a psychiatrist on their own, to decide on their own medical procedures and treatments. When I asked the experts in the committee who supported the draft for examples of psychiatric procedures, I did not receive a reply, despite repeated questions. Nor did the representatives of the initiators of the draft, or of the Social Democrats, respond to this question and are enthusiastically supported by the MPs of the Reform Party and the Centre Party. But they had to know exactly what they meant when they signed up to their medical procedures and treatment. It is obvious that my question was unpleasant to them, and they simply did not want to answer it. The liberal values of Europe are being strongly imposed on us. Children have already been told in kindergartens about living in the wrong body and wearing clothes of the opposite sex as normal. LGBT themes sink into the internet and are integrated into children's educational materials of all ages. It is pressed into our homes through kindergartens and schools, often unknown to our parents. This creates divisions in families, as children are forced on at a age when they are susceptible and insecure, topics they do not understand and which may conflict with their family values and their own feelings. Their potential emotional confusion will be exploited. As a result, it is not surprising that children suffer from mental health. And then there will be a group of politicians and officials who talk with harsh eyes about the great concern and concern for children's mental health about what they themselves have caused by imposing their ideology on children. In a situation where children cannot decide independently whether a class photo may be taken, it is considered that the same children may decide for themselves whether to visit a psychiatrist, medical procedures and treatment. Isn't that hypocritical? I strongly support the idea that children who are victims of sexual exploitation or who do not have caring and loving parents should be allowed to attend a psychiatrist's appointment without parental consent if necessary. Fortunately, such cases are rather rare and parents in general still love their children, provide them with a sense of security, guide them, and serve as a pillar for them. This amendment does not recommend helping children in need of help, but the implementation of their liberal ideology and policies. Kristel Rannaääre, CEO of the Estonian LGBT Society, wrote: "The service should also be accessible to "transgender people" under 18 years of age. It is important to mention here that access to services does not involve surgical intervention, but rather a change in legal data and, if desired, the use of puberty blocks. " I would like to make it clear that this service is about gender change. It's depressing and horrifying for a thoughtful and caring adult. Instead of being a supportive adult and listening to what is really a problem, they start treating and performing procedures immediately. I am very sorry that these things are the case, and I am ashamed of those colleagues who support this kind of action on children. For all this reason, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support this draft. I also call on the members of the political groups of the other parties to find their conscience and not to support this amendment. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U107	Next on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the spread and vaccination of the virus, another hot topic arose last week: should sexual identity be raised? The news that caused the chills came out when a young woman decided to speak publicly about her having sexual relations with a man 40 years older than her at the age of 14. The police and the prosecutor's office will examine the facts of the case and will certainly make their assessment. I, on the other hand, want to look at what happened from a different angle. I clearly see that many children and adolescents in our society are at risk of becoming in a situation that could harm their physical and mental health. In particular, they are children who do not have a trusting relationship with their parents, relatives or guardians. In short, a child who is not adequately cared for has a higher risk of getting into a situation where he... [[The connection's breaking up.]] Where should such a child seek help? Does he have to wait until he's of age? Does he have to wait until... becomes irreversible? With today's vote, we can give a clear answer to these questions. Suppose some of us at a young age might need such help from outside the family circle. Today, we need to ensure that psychiatric assistance is available to people with reduced capacity and minors. The current procedure, when... and a considered young person under 18 years of age cannot obtain psychiatric assistance without the consent of his or her legal representative or the permission of the court, is not normal. I would remind you that the number of children and young people aged up to 19 in need of psychiatric assistance is currently over 10,000 a year. It is difficult to estimate how much it would be if all those in need had access to a psychiatrist regardless of their parents' consent. Clearly, distance learning leads not only to new experiences but also to mental and emotional tension, anxiety, and even suicidal thoughts. If, on average, 30 suicide attempts have been recorded among children in Estonia during the year, this year there were 20 such cases already in the first two months. The Estonian Centre Party values families. A safe, economically stable and united family, where all members feel safe and safe, is the greatest value of our society. We stand for more and more families where children have the best environment for growth and development. I believe there is also a lower risk of a child suffering from a psychiatric illness in such a family. Specialists claim that the support of parents and other relatives during psychiatric treatment is very important. With their support, development will be faster and more effective. However, experience so far has shown that there are cases in which a child is unable to involve his or her parents in solving his or her problems. Then the support of an independent professional specialist is needed, and all the more so must be the opportunity for a mature and considerable young person to receive help as soon as possible. Every child and young person must be confident that they do not have to cope with their problems alone. The law on psychiatric assistance has been in the proceedings of the Riigikogu for a long time. I hope that, with today's vote, the law will become up-to-date and will allow a person with reduced capacity to receive treatment at his/her own request. To this end, the treating physician will assess the child's ability to consider, explain the treatment to the child and should obtain the consent of the child. If, in the opinion of the doctor, the minor is not sufficiently prudent to decide on his/her own treatment, a parent or other person who is trusted by the minor must be involved with the consent of the child. The goal is to get the best result for your child. The Estonian Centre Party stands for psychiatric assistance to be available to people regardless of their age, gender and financial means, and in a reasonable time frame. This law is a reasonable compromise, taking into account all constructive proposals and recommendations. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U109	Next, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Helmen Kütt will speak. Please, three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, Good fellows! Today, hopefully, the draft law amending § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act, or 115 SE, is a necessary draft. A small change in form, but a big change in content, will enable a young person under 18 to be sufficiently mature and able to exercise his or her rights, to receive psychiatric assistance without the consent of his or her legal representative or the permission of the court. According to the Constitution, everyone has the right to health protection. The current law on psychiatric assistance, which deprives a teenage child of access to treatment, is unconstitutional. All happy families are alike, each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. This idea comes from Lev Tolsto. This amendment of the law is not needed in families where relationships between children and parents are in order, where children are listened to and listened to where love and trust prevail. This change does not concern families where children's joys are the joys of the whole family and where troubles are sought out together. In such families, children usually enter adult life with a sense of security and can continue to offer it to their children. Not all children grow up in such families. I am a social worker from education and have worked for more than 20 years in the city of Viljandi. Unfortunately, my work brought me together with families that had relationships with my parents, but often with my parents and children, either bad or very bad. In some homes there was close - relationship violence. I was exposed to children without parental care and sexually abused children. And then there were the so-called bank card kids. These were children who did not have economic problems, but their mothers and fathers mostly worked abroad and sometimes older children had to be a teacher for younger ones. If it went well, there were also grandparents. These children, however, lacked the most important: a happy childhood with a safe home, which gives confidence and knowledge that the necessary help is available in the event of problems and difficulties. This amendment will not eliminate the necessary and significant support network for the child. On the contrary! There is another way for young people to seek help and receive help even if their parents do not consider it necessary or if their parents themselves are in difficulty and their children do not take parental care. Of course, a psychiatrist always asks why a young person does not want to involve his parents and explains why informing his parents is necessary. Very often, a psychiatrist can persuade his parents to be involved. But it may also prove that it is not in the best interests of the child to inform the parents. Examples include situations where children are victims of abuse or domestic violence. The opponents have pointed out that we are short on psychiatrists. This amendment to the law is not a sucker, it does not solve all the problems, as well as the shortage of necessary specialists, including psychiatrists. These problems and concerns must continue to be addressed. At the same time, we do not have enough teachers, family doctors, and sisters, but we have not decided that one age group, whether children, elderly or working age, will be left without medical care or education. Child welfare workers, school social pedagogues, psychologists, various counselling centres are currently working as a good network of cooperation. A psychiatrist is now added to this team when a young person has chosen to trust him with his concern. Different programmes and trainings to support parenthood and promote positive parenthood must be made available to parents, because a person seeking help is not weak but strong. More than 40 organisations and a large number of the best specialists in their field took part in this draft procedure. More than 20 times this issue was being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, but some of these times did not formally reach the agenda. All these discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs were very meaningful and their participants supported the amendment. Thank you so much! Their help and change of government have brought us to this day, where the draft amendment to the law on psychiatric assistance will be finalized and hopefully become the law. Finally. When I quoted Lev Tolstoi's point at the beginning of the speech, I would like to conclude in the speech of Fatherland's Ambassador Tarmo Kruusimäe with the draft at second reading. The coworker recalled his hurried youth, which included suicide attempts by close relatives and friends, as well as what he experienced as a member of the long - term Committee on Minority Affairs. Sometimes the cause of young trouble lies in the family. I quote: "Let us help these children together, these devastated souls of men! Let's trust them! I think they also have the right to a happy life." Dear colleagues, I hope you will give your vote of support to the 115th draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U111	Next, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Mr Hillak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Mental health depends on a person's ability to create a family, social relationships, study, and not to enter into troubled relationships, or to go down the path of crime. It is important to realize that spiritual health determines a person's whole life, and if it becomes hurt during childhood, it will affect us for the rest of our lives. It is important that children in need receive psychiatric assistance and receive it quickly, without bureaucratic obstacles. The Reform Party Group supports the amendment of the Law on psychiatric assistance, as this is a necessary amendment. As a result, minors will continue to be entitled to psychiatric assistance if they so wish. So far, this was not possible without the consent of the parent. In this draft, it is important to understand that parents are not kept away, but are also given the opportunity to receive treatment for children who may lose their help because of their parent. It also provides for the possibility that, if necessary, another adult, a person whom the child trusts, such as a grandparent, aunt, uncle, older sibling or other relative, may be involved in the process instead of parent. Ladies and gentlemen, A long-awaited change is necessary because it increases the quality of life of children and young people in need, for their entire lives. I call on you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U113	Priit Sibul, on behalf of the Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland supports this bill. Even when this draft, on the initiative of the Social Democrats, was in motion in the Commission, the question arose as to whether and if so how the parents would be involved. Some of us fear and attribute an impact to this bill that it doesn't have. Everyone is now known to be able to contact a psychiatrist. On the contrary, the question is that a psychiatrist cannot help young people because the law has not yet allowed it. And if there are those unfortunate young people who, for some reason, seek out a psychiatrist who can help them, then if this bill is adopted, the psychiatrist will be able to do so. So we support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U115	Now we have heard the wishes of the groups to speak, and we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending § 3 of the Social Democratic Party Act 115. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U116	The draft was supported by 73 members of the Riigikogu, 17 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U117	Our third item is the third reading of Bill 299 of the Law on the amendment of traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The political groups have the opportunity to speak. I don't see that wish. Honourable Riigikogu, since we have just had the final vote, do you agree to vote without a hall call? No objections. Good Riigikogu, I will vote on the final amendment of the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic... I'm sorry! Helle-Moonika Helme has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U118	Yeah, thanks! Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U119	Yeah, we copy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U120	We had the last vote the way that Siim Pohlak wanted to vote, but he had a button all the time moving... I think Siim wants to explain it to himself. Is there anything we can do? Could there be some kind of guidance to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U121	Thank you. I assume Siim Pohlak wants to ask a similar question. I'll have him ask for the procedure and then I'll answer. Please, Siim Pohlak! We can't get in touch with Siim Pohlak right now. Let's try it again, see if we can. Unfortunately, Siim Pohlak cannot be contacted, but I assume the question is the same as Helle-Moonika Helmel. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U122	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think we can go any further, because at the moment two people have had a procedural question concerning this previous vote, as I understand it. We should still try to get in touch with these people right now to find out what they think has gone wrong. As we know, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act gives certain possibilities for protest and this must be done immediately, not later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U123	Thank you. The questions are all the same, I understand. However, the Rules of Procedure are such that, once the President has declared the vote closed, the vote has been taken, the result of the vote shall be valid. And if a member of the Riigikogu has pressed the pro-or counter-button wrong in his opinion and after that conclusion, this does not change the outcome of the vote. And Mr Pohlak's vote would have had no impact on the outcome of the vote. Paul Puustusmaa, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U124	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand these explanations, but in Siimu's case, it's still very important. In this case, it does not affect the outcome of the vote, but it is procedurally very important that the vote was written. This is a question of the renome of the voting system of both the personal and the Riigikogu. In this case, Mr Pohlak's vote was reversed, although he did not vote at all. He didn't have any buttons to push on. So this problem still needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U125	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, the system recorded his voice, which suggests that he pressed one button. Indeed, § 85 of the Rules of Procedure Act states that the result of the vote shall be made known by the President of the sitting, confirming them with a hammer strike, and they shall not be disputed after the result of the vote has been confirmed. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U126	Thank you. Siim Pohlak is not in touch right now, and he tells us that he was unable to vote that the machine gave a positive response for him. I therefore protest with this last vote and ask for the draft vote to be resumed once we have completed the voting system. Our Rules of Procedure do not really regulate the electronic vote as we have been doing here recently. And that is why we need to look at this creatively, and if this machine really does vote wrong for someone, as a person now confirms, then we need to hold a new vote and, before that, check whether the vote is working.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U127	As I said, we do not know that the machine would have voted for anyone. All signals have come from human computers, as we know. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U128	Thank you. I don't quite agree with your view that this whole song has ended. In particular, the first paragraph of § 84 of the Home and Working Procedures Act expressly states that if, in the course of the vote, a member of the Riigikogu is unable to vote due to the technical failure of the voting board, the President of the sitting interrupts the vote by confirming his decision with a hammer. The point now is that obviously all reports do not arrive within the required time in the event of any malfunction; they come with some delay. The decision of the Riigikogu's Board of Directors "Requirements and procedures for holding a sitting with a long participation" actually confirms the exact same thing. I do not see the legal basis at the moment simply to exclude the resolution of this issue when such a machine is voted on. I don't know right now that this information has come from somewhere. We still can't move forward until Siim Pohlak has been able to reveal his wish in some way. At the moment, it is not a question of whether or not this will affect this vote, it is now a question of the whole vote...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U129	Do you have a question? Let's try to formulate a question, otherwise it's going to be like a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U130	Okay, okay. I'm trying to do it. I mean, what I'm saying is, we can't go any further until Siim Pohlak has made his point. The law doesn't allow such crossings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U131	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Last week we had an almost analogous situation, and the President of the sitting proposed, which makes perfect sense and complies with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, that a person who has a technical problem at a remote session can send an e-mail to the messenger at virgats@riigikogu.ee about the vote. His vote will then also be taken into account if, for some reason, the technical system failed. Why don't we follow the same instructions today? The situation would have been solved. Why are we wasting time now and not moving on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U133	Thank you. In the case of a specific vote, the result was simply announced, the vote was closed, and I did not see any procedural requests during the vote. I would have had reason to interrupt the vote, as Mr Grünthal pointed out. Paragraph 84 states that if, during the vote, someone signals that the remote control is not working and the vote is suspended. And always a member of the Riigikogu, when we are at a remote hearing, has to call. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U134	Good afternoon. If I understand correctly, this is a discussion about protesting the result of the vote. I can tell you from my experience that in December last year, I did not vote on the amendment to the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act because of a technical failure. I asked the board to take my vote into account. And I received a reply from the Bureau, signed by Henn Põllea, from which I quote two sentences: 'The vote procedure begins from the moment the President has put the matter to the vote, confirmed by a hammer strike, and ends with the announcement of the result of the vote, which the President also confirms by a hammer strike. Members of the Riigikogu have the right to protest and to signal to the President of the sitting that, due to technical failure, it is not possible to vote only until the result of the vote is confirmed by a hammer. " My voice didn't count then, and I don't think there's anything to argue about until the rules of the game were changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U135	Thank you, Jüri Jaanson! I believe that the position of the Bureau, which Henn Põlluaas has signed, is indeed valid today. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U136	Thank you. Well, of course, it's very talented: since I've been given this, you have to do it to everyone. But we have two problems. One problem is that we cannot proceed with the next votes if we know that the voting system itself will vote for the ambassadors. We cannot do the next votes like this. The second problem is that the protest was made as soon as possible: as soon as the voting tab had shown, Siim Pohlak's voice went to the letter without having been able to vote, he tried to contact you, but you had already reached the hammer. Siim Pohlak doesn't want his voice to get the verbogram wrong. This is one problem that could be solved. And I think Imre Sooääre's proposal makes perfect sense. After all, we are not contesting the result of this vote. This law will apply, whether one vote is one vote in one way or the other. But Siim Pohlak's voice should get it right. And the other thing is that we need to understand that we can trust the voting system in the next votes. What do we do now with these two problems? Once again, I am protesting against this vote as it was. The protest was submitted as soon as possible, essentially immediately after the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U137	Thank you for that comment. It is true that the voting procedure, as Jüri Jaanson has read to you, is the result of a purely § 85 domestic and operational procedure and we acted accordingly. And we really asked IT to look again, and the signal from them tells us that indeed Siim Pohlak has pressed the half button. This signal has reached the computer system. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U138	Thank you. I am very interested in how the IT team has been able to identify that Siim Pohlak voted at all. How can it be established that the voting system reflected its real and real will, in such a short time? It doesn't make any sense. And there's also a different situation from what Jüri Jaanson pointed out. He was concerned that he could not vote and his vote did not count, but in the case of Siim Pohlak, the opposite was reflected, although in fact Mr Pohlak did not vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U139	Thank you! If this protest comes from Siim Pohlak, he can indeed protest on the basis of § 74 (1). But that doesn't change the outcome of the vote, I confirmed it with a hammer strike, and the results of the vote showed that this bill had been passed as a law. Mart Helme, please! Mr. Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U140	Yeah, I understand I've been given the floor, but I didn't hear the word. It characterises this whole remote session of ours. I am completely resolutely protesting against the method of overdrive in the tank used by the manager. I also fully protest against Jüri Jaanson's words, because probably in December, when his voice was a problem, we did not have a remote hearing. We are currently dealing with a long-distance hearing, with constant technical problems, with incessant technical problems. And I would remind you that last week, or it was the week before that, I too had these buttons floating all the time on my computer screen, driving around, and I couldn't vote. And many others could not vote either. And then the system was fixed. Apparently, Siim Pohlak has the same story right now. And if Siim Pohlak says he couldn't vote and didn't vote the way the machine's registered, what do we have now? A human word, a living person is like a completely insignificant being compared to a machine. Hey, come on! I protest against the conduct of the manager. This isn't the way things are gonna work!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U141	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U142	Thank you. Any word from me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U143	Yeah, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U144	I'm not just messing around here right now because of the bullshit. Indeed, this manager's assessment that if the hitchhiker doesn't signal at the moment when his Internet connection is being cut off for reasons beyond his control, there's nothing to do, that's not quite an adequate story. I'll give you some examples of last week's session that threw me on the screen during the hearing. "Something went wrong. It is not possible to use the system at the moment. " Then there is the message that comes out at any moment: "Your session was terminated by the server. " Something needs to be done about this system. This isn't the appropriate thing that's going on right now. There's some serious Ktermann inside.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U145	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U146	Siim can't even connect to ask a procedural question. He had contacted the IT department, sent us a message that he contacted the IT department. The I.T. Department confirms there was a problem with his connection. I'll come back to that one more time. Yes, of course Siim Pohlak writes a protest to the Bureau and I hope that his vote will be changed after the verbatim and the voting system. But what do we do? How will we proceed with the votes if we now see that the machine is voting for a person?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U147	Thank you for that question. I believe that all the remaining questions relate to the same situation. We have now discussed quickly with our assistants and I am taking the following decision: I am withdrawing the previous vote. We will hold a new vote and if anyone has a problem during the next vote to be re-opened, please give a hand signal during the vote so that we can resolve this during the vote. If, during the vote, I see that someone has a problem, we will use this opportunity to inform us of our vote at virgats@riigikogu.ee, and so we will find out the result of this vote. Are we resolved on this issue, or are there still questions? Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U148	Thank you, Mr President. There was such a question in the Chamber that it was possible to identify whether someone voted. Exactly as hundreds of thousands of votes are recorded in electronic voting. It doesn't trigger any strong emotions. I wonder if the same boomerang is flying towards us or towards you, why is there going to be this whole debate? Perhaps it would have been more logical to start electronic voting in Riigikogu elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U149	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! All the votes that have so far come to us electronically are nicely registered and well taken into account. I very much hope that we do not need to continue with this procedural issue. I said I cancelled the vote, we're going to have another vote. Everyone can signal if there is a problem, and I will register this problem during the vote, and then within five minutes it will be possible for those who have a problem to give their vote at virgats@riigikogu.ee and we will record this as the result of the vote on the minutes. Jüri Jaanson, can we move on, or do you still have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U150	It's a procedure. Mart Helme mentioned me earlier, and I am quoting a sentence from the same document that I mentioned earlier. In particular, this sentence: "You turned to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu on 17 December 2020 with the wish to add your vote of support to the minutes of the final vote of 122, as a result of the fact that, due to a technical problem, you were not able to attend the sitting of the Riigikogu on 17 December with a remote participation in the proceedings. ] participate in the final vote on this draft. " I just want to add that I am currently reading in this text that there is a new vote planned. I will protest completely against the new vote as long as the rules of the Bureau's game have not been changed. The rules of the game cannot be changed purely by the desire of the one who shouts louder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U151	Thank you, Jüri Jaanson! It was my decision, as President of the sitting, to resume this vote now. Indeed, we have had to take a little more creatively in these last few months, too, to interrupt the vote. I will also let you know that before I take the next vote on the hammer, I will take a more calm pace to see if anyone has had any problems during the vote. I would now like to go to the vote. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U152	Thank you, President-in-Office. I just have one question. You repeatedly stressed that during this vote, press your hand if you have any problems. Sorry, if we have problems with the Internet or any problems with this system, we can't press that hand either. We're completely helpless, we don't have a connection. More specifically, I had exactly the same problem, he had these voting buttons moving, so he was unable to hit them. He can't get in touch right now. So, I don't know, it doesn't work that we're gonna start hand-in-handing here. We just can't. If we're out of the system, it won't help or anything. How are we going to deal with this situation anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U153	Thank you. So far, all the other members of the Riigikogu have acted well. There is an association from the Riigikogu. We have said this many times that, in the case of a remote sitting, it is first and foremost necessary to see that the IT system by the Riigikogu works. Perhaps someone wants to come to the hall, just as a dozen members of the Riigikogu have done or a little less. I count two, four, six, eight. Eight members of the Riigikogu are currently in the hall and can come to the hall if there is a technical problem. It is also possible to use 4G if the WiFi connection does not work at home. I now really hope that all those on the line who are nice will be able to vote. We have the opportunity to participate in the hearing through remote participation, but it is always possible to come to the hall, as you know. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U154	I myself must have had such a problem during the vote last week that I did not have time to press the button or to announce anything during that time. That's why, like you said, it would take it a little more slowly. This is the proposal in order to lengthen the voting process so that it is possible to make a statement, if necessary, either by calling or by giving a signal in any other way. That's all I had.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U155	Thank you for your comment. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U156	I'm afraid I have to deny that everything is going to go smoothly. There was a serious disturbance, and I was forced to restore the computer, but then a message came that my session was ongoing. Something's wrong with us. We should take a look at it. That's not the way this hearing isn't quite successful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U157	Thank you. To do this you can call 6316400 IT assistance if there are any technical problems. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U158	I just want to mention that I've also taken a picture of these situations with my phone so that it doesn't look like the EKRE is somehow delaying or interfering with water right now just because he wants to do it. Like I said before, there was a note on the screen that your session was terminated by a server. That's what I've got on the screen on the phone during the hearing. And another case when it was reported that something went wrong, the system interrupted and it is not possible to connect at the moment. So it's a serious problem that hasn't just been taken off the ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U159	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U160	I approve of the chairman's decision, but I do not think we can go back to the vote until the connection with Siim Pohlak has been established. And according to my information, there's no connection right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U161	Thank you. Then there is a suggestion for Siim Pohlak to call 6316400 and see if there is a problem with his Internet connection or some other problem. Normally, it is worth exchanging Wi-Fi, for example, via the phone that has been given to us, and using the 4G connection to join the Riigikogu information system. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U162	Thank you! I would like to point out that I am physically present precisely because I cannot do this job so well at home, but it is rather due to this arrogant attitude of the internship provider. We should, however, review whether teleworking opportunities are guaranteed for all ambassadors. I don't have them, that's why I work nearby. That is such a point on my part.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U163	A member of the Riigikogu has the right to choose their internet service provider. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U164	Thank you, Mr President. I do not agree with the position you expressed that, if there are any problems, Mr Pohlak must make this known. Article 891 (3) of the Law on our Rules of Procedure states: "A sitting with a long participation may be held if a member of the Riigikogu is given the opportunity to observe the session in real time while away, to perform proceedings... " Jne. At the moment, this is not guaranteed. And I'm asking the manager to take a break so that this opportunity to participate in real time is basically there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U165	Thank you. This opportunity is guaranteed for all. Siim Pohlak, you see, is connected even now. Please, Siim Pohlak! So... Unfortunately, we are still unable to reach Siim Pohlak, but it seems that this is still a matter of Siim Pohlak's Internet connection. We've managed to get in touch with everyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U166	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to re-vote, as I said, item number 2, the draft law amending § 3 of the Law on psychiatric assistance initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. But first, since we've had a long break, I'm gonna make a short hall call. Mr. Grünthal, please, what question do you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U167	I would point out, however, paragraph 3 of § 891, which states that a remote sitting may be held if it is guaranteed... etc. It's an obligatory requirement. We cannot move forward until the connection of Siim Pohlak, a member of the Riigikogu, is guaranteed. We just saw that he was on the line, but there's no beep. We can't do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U168	Thank you very much. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu assures us that the possibility is guaranteed from this side. Once again: Whether or not the computer of a member of the Riigikogu connects to the system is not a question of whether it is guaranteed. Yeah, it's guaranteed. And I see again that Siim Pohlak is on our line. Please, can we get in touch with Siim Pohlak now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U169	I'll try again. I closed everything down, the browsers, and I rebooted. Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U170	Yeah, I can hear you very nicely. And maybe once again I'll do the hall call so we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending § 3 of the Social Democratic Party Act 115. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U171	74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 19 members of the Riigikogu opposed. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U172	Our third item today is the third reading of the draft law 299 on the amendment of traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please, do the groups have any requests to speak? No, then we'll go to the final vote. I hope the hall is okay if we go to it immediately without a call sign. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on the amendment of traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 299. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U173	91 delegates voted in favour of the adoption of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U174	Our fourth item is the second reading of the draft Act 302 on the Accession of hazardous and harmful substances to the Protocol of 2010 to the 1996 International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in the Sea (HNS Convention). The presentation is made on behalf of the Committee on the Environment by Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U175	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this is the Act of Accession to the 2010 Protocol to the Convention and was discussed by the Committee on the Environment at its video session on 8 March. All members of the Commission took part. No amendments were tabled after the completion of the first reading, which was on 17 February. It was therefore proposed at the meeting of the Commission that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 March and that, since it is accession to the Protocol to the Convention, a final vote should also be taken. This decision was adopted by consensus in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U176	Good waitress, you don't seem to have any questions. Thank you. Now I'm opening negotiations. All members of the Riigikogu, committees and political groups will be heard, but as usual, committees and political groups will be heard first, if possible. There are no requests to speak. This is an external agreement, which is why we are also going to have a final vote and we are going to start preparing it. Can we go to the vote? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 302 on the Accession of hazardous and harmful substances to the 2010 Protocol to the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in the Sea of 1996 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U177	There were 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U178	Our fifth item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the removal of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and the appointment of new members, submitted by the Committee on the Environment, 342. The first reading report will be made by Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U179	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 25 February, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit a draft decision calling the members of the Riigikogu Merry Aart and Priit Sibul back from the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation and to appoint Annely Akkermann and Martin Repinski members of the Riigikogu as new members of the Supervisory Board. After submitting the draft, we discussed the draft at the Commission on 8 March. When discussing this draft decision, Evgeni Ossinovski, who will remain at the Environmental Investment Centre as representatives of Parliament when the draft is adopted, was examined. I replied that Kalvi Tõvi and Igor Kravtšenko would remain in the Council and, if the draft was adopted, Annely Akkermann and Martin Repinski would become new members. In the committee, it was decided to submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu to the plenary assembly. There were six members for it and three against it. It was also decided that if the Bureau were to process the draft and appoint the Environment Committee as the lead committee, it would be proposed to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 17 March and also to hold a final vote. It also had six members in favour and three against. The Chairman of the Committee on the Environment was appointed as the representative of the Steering Committee, in the same way as votes 6 to 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U180	Kalle Grünthal, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In real life, or in this life, which takes place somewhere outside the castle walls, it is still the case that when someone is called back or replaced, there is some very serious reason, for example, that a person cannot do his job. Clearly, there are political games here and so on. But I have a question about when the company of this house will begin to consider the real life that is happening outside the walls.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U182	Thank you. That was not the question the Commission was discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U183	Good waitress, no more questions for you. We are going to have a final vote on this draft decision, but it will be possible for the political groups to speak in the course of the negotiations. Good factions, would you like that? No, I don't. Then we go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre" submitted by the Committee on the Environment 342. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U184	The decision was supported by 57 members of the Riigikogu, 30 members of the Riigikogu opposed, with no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U185	Our sixth item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and appointment of a new member." Here too, Yoko Alender will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U186	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision concerns the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. On 25 February, a member of the Riigikogu, Andres Metsoja, decided to withdraw from the Supervisory Board of RMK and to appoint Yoko Alender, a member of the Riigikogu as a new member of the Supervisory Board. On this basis, the Committee on the Environment submitted a draft decision which was accepted by the Board of the Riigikogu. This draft was discussed by the Commission on Monday 8 March. Then Commissioner Andres Metsoja asked for clarification as to whether the second representative of Parliament in the RMK Council was Mikhail Korb. I replied that the second representative in the Council was Mikhail Korb. According to Commissioner Ossinovski, it would be reasonable to exclude Mikhail Korb from the Council until the criminal investigation against him is concluded. Jevgeni Ossinovski said that the presumption of innocence cannot be assessed, but RMK and forest management are subject to high public attention and the credibility of the board member is very important. The Committee on the Environment then decided to submit the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the removal of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and the appointment of a new member to the plenary assembly (five members in favour and two abstentions) and, if the Board of the Riigikogu adopts the draft and appoints a commission for the Environment Committee, propose that the plenary of the Riigikogu put the draft on the agenda of the assembly by 17 March and hold the final vote. There were also five members in favour, two against and one abstention. With the same votes, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment was appointed as the representative of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U187	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Tarmo Kruus Mountain begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U188	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the meantime, it sounded like the vice president said "members." I read it says "member." Which one is he now? And how is that procedure? If the Vice-Chairman of the Commission so happens to resign, the election of the chairman of the committee will also be held. It would seem more reasonable to me that, let's say, to save RMK's reputation, both members representing the Riigikogu will still be recalled and then one will be re-elected as in the new established situation. Would it seem more transparent?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U189	Thank you. As an introduction to the debate in the Commission sitting, I can share with you what took place in the Commission. The Commission decided to withdraw Mr Metsoja as a member and to appoint Yoko Alender as a new member of the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U190	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U191	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have a question as to how much such a question arose in the Commission. Although the Republic of Estonia is a court of justice and no decisions have been taken, there is, unfortunately, doubt about one of our good colleagues. And he represents Parliament in the Council of the State Forest Management Centre. Did you discuss this in the committee, or has it been discussed by your group or by the Central Party Group? Do you know why we have to keep our good colleague Korb there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U192	Thank you, good questioner! To this extent, we discussed this issue, as I reported. I gave the debate in committee quite literally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U193	Next, Urmas Reitelmann! Tarmo Kruusimäe, on this bill, there is one question for every member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U194	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! A member of the Council is aware of the duty of due diligence and my colleague Korb has been suspected of corruption. Did you happen to discuss the extent to which it is right to put a person suspected of corruption in a situation where he has a duty of due diligence on his own? Is it ethical in the Commission's view, and what is your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U195	Thank you, good questioner! Dear Vice-Chairman, we have discussed this to exactly the extent that I have given you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U196	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U197	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. It seems that the rapporteur is not interested in the fact that RMK is an organisation that moves very large sums of money, that there is a great deal of criticism, suspicion and so on about RMK in society. And now put 2 + 2 together, i.e. the suspected criminal suspect, the suspected party that he represents, and all these knots around RMK and forestry, well, this is clearly a case of blindfolding and realising the political agreement. But my question concerns the waitress herself: do you not find it strange that you are essentially assigning yourself to RMK?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U198	Thank you. Dear Vice-Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! I follow my responsibilities as Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, and today I pass on the discussion of the Committee on the Environment. And later, I will use my mandate to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U199	Kalle Grünthal, please! Sorry, before Kalle Grünthal, Helle-Moonika Helmel has a procedural question. Please, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U200	Sorry, I actually have a real question. I'd take this out of procedure and ask you a real question. I was wrong by accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U201	Thank you! Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You are very close today in your answers. And when the issue was raised here that there is one person suspected of corruption in the Commission, but you are not discussing this issue in detail and in depth, I have the impression that the honourable Commission will support the transfer of corruption to this area as well. This is my subjective assessment of your report. There's no answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U203	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U204	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You are conscientiously reading the paper you have been given to you. But the question is very serious. Here is the problem of why these very important accusations were not discussed in the Commission. What is the point of a committee that does not deal with substantive issues, and what is the point of a report that reads blank paper in advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U205	Thank you. Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! I'm sure you couldn't read the blank papers. I passed on the debate in the Committee on the Environment exactly as it was, and it is certainly not within the competence of the Committee on the Environment to discuss anyone's alleged offences.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U206	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U207	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Yoko! I'd like to come back to your personal question. Don't you think you have an obvious conflict of interest right now? So I ask: in the Commission, when it was your appointment as a member of the Council, did you withdraw from the vote and will you withdraw from the final vote now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U208	Thank you. As a member of the Riigikogu performs his duties by voting, I see no reason why I should withdraw from the vote. If I didn't trust myself, it would be weird to set up my own candidacy for this place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U209	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You really are very vague and very formal today, and you do not want to open up any more specific issues that the ambassadors have tried to bring to the table. Rather, what I ask you is: what were the motives and who raised the very exchange of these specific ambassadors? Who said those specific names? Why don't you open up a little discussion about why this ambassador is being replaced against this particular ambassador? I'd like to understand before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U211	Thank you. Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! The Centre Party Group has proposed that Mikhail Korb and the Reform Party Group as their representative should remain a member of the RMK Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U212	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U213	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress Yoko! After all, we realise that by appointing a new government, the Reform Party has wished to have a seat in the RMK Council. But, if I remember correctly, the representatives of the Reform Party have pointed out in recent times that there could certainly be political balance in such important councils, or there could also be representatives of the opposition. Given the role played by RMK when we talk about the future of the Estonian forest, which is a very important debate in society and certainly needs a balanced discussion, how do you feel: is it wise to exclude the opposition from this discussion? Is it wise to fill RMK's council seats only with representatives of the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U214	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable questioner! We did not discuss this issue at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment either. I can present my personal position to a good colleague in another format. Since this is also my candidacy, I can assure you that I can certainly see my role in listening to and conveying the views of opposition ambassadors as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U215	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U216	Thank you. Dear waitress, you are really so vague today and you will remain very minimalist within the information discussed in the Commission when you share it with us here. However, the Home and Working Procedures Act does not prohibit you from opening a wider debate or even thoughts that you personally have in relation to this subject if the members of the Riigikogu have any questions about it. But you didn't want it. Tell me if you don't want or dare to express your personal position or if you don't have a personal position. Or do you still have some personal opinion on whether or not Mikhail Korb, who has been suspected of corruption, should continue in that council?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U217	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! Surely, because of your long policy practice, you know very well that certain personnel choices are made in the coalition, as they are done. And if you want my personal position, we can definitely talk about it another time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U218	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U219	Thank you so much. Good Yoko! I still don't have the peace of my soul. Is it really in the committee when you were discussing personality that Korb has been suspected of a crime, as was not the case at all? Didn't they pay any attention to that? Didn't anyone there show any hesitation or doubt that the crime is obvious and in front of their eyes? Is that what you missed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U220	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! There wasn't enough information, and then maybe it was hard to handle. Once again, we discussed this to the exact extent that I reported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U221	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question, too. Both the Reform Party and the Centre Party have spoken quite often here about the rule of law and the rule of law. And now you are saying that you in the Commission did not discuss the matter at all in any further detail when you put in place a candidate for a Council member who does not have clarity as to whether or not he has committed this corruption crime. RMK has already caused enough emotion. How do you think it will affect people and their sense of justice in the light of the rule of law when a person from this background is appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK? How serious are the work of Riigikogu committees and the decisions of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U223	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! The person appointed to the Council on the basis of this draft decision will not have any suspicions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U224	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U225	Yeah, what I'm asking, but I'll ask if I have to ask Yoko. Look, the video meeting has a different format. There, not only did Mr Ossinovski raise the question of the possible replacement of Mr Korb, but I also expressed this concern. But the atmosphere there was something like this, so I got the impression that we'd take one thing at a time, and we'd get to Korb next time. I don't have it in front of the record, but I attended that meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U226	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Peter, colleague from the Committee on the Environment! Indeed, Peter Ernitsa is right. This bill does not concern the membership of the Mikhail Korb Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U227	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U228	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Commissioner Yoko! Just in the interests of this debate, as Vice-Chairman of the Commission, I assure you that, however, the Commission also discussed the subject of Mr Korb in this debate. In fact, there was a clear proposal to discuss the Commission's balance. And I think that someone even proposed that I do not want to prioritise myself at all, that perhaps it would really be reasonable for both the chairman and vice-chairman of the Committee on the Environment to be involved in the work of this Council. So, however, this debate was entirely there, but perhaps, because of the e-tools, it was a little distant for people. But the involvement of the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment in the RMK Council is, in my opinion, reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U229	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Andres, as well as a good colleague from the Committee on the Environment! I can confirm what Andres said. This is not reflected in the Commission's protocol, but I think it was Mr Ossinovski who claimed that Andres Metsoja would be a very good candidate to continue in the Council. This can also be found in the results of the vote. Indeed, Evgeni Ossinovski opposed Mr Metsoja's recall. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U230	Mr. Onion, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U231	Thank you. I ask you, Vice-Chairman, to confirm that we really have before us this brilliant female colleague Yoko Alender, as we know him, not a broken record machine who today simply does not want to answer our substantive questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U232	Thank you for this question. Raivo Tamm continues. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U233	Dear Vice-Chairman, Good waitress! I understand that corruption is not a problem for most of the Riigikogu. But is it possible to know what RMK feels about the fact that such a person suspected of corruption is in the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U234	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! Unfortunately, this issue was not discussed during the debate in the Committee on the Environment. But to this day, your political partner has been involved in the work of the Council, and he has certainly been able to pass on any doubts or concerns in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U235	Mr. Sester, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U236	Yeah, thanks! I have a procedural question. Looking at this debate, I have a question for the President. Is it really necessary to hold such a debate if, as a concrete rapporteur, the chairman of the committee does not speak a single word more than the minutes of the Commission? I understand that the Commission's protocol does not actually reflect the whole debate in the Commission. Perhaps it would be easier to send this protocol to the members of the Riigikogu and to cancel these debates? Looks like the questioners have questions, but the answer is kind of embarrassing. Why do you even need this debate? Just put this protocol on the table for members of the Riigikogu and leave these debates out at all. It seems that way now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U237	Thank you. Well, it wasn't very procedural, but as far as I'm concerned, as it's always sounded through here, the questioner has the opportunity to ask and the respondent has the opportunity to respond at his best discretion. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U238	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I do have a substantive question, namely whether the work in question is subject to a charge and, if so, how much it is paid. And if it is subject to a charge, is it not a conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U239	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! According to my information, this position is indeed remunerated. How much the reward is, that's the answer I owe you. This should be public information; it can certainly be investigated by a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U240	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U241	I have a very interesting document in front of which the Reform Party has participated: it is good practice of a member of the Riigikogu. I'll read it a little bit. "Knowing its responsibility for organising the life of Estonia and for the common good, recognising responsibility for the people as the supreme authority and the responsibility to act in the public interest, given the need to ensure the credibility of the representative of the people, the member of the Riigikogu proceeds from the interests of the people and the state in making decisions. A member of the Riigikogu avoids damaging the reputation of Estonia and the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu does not undertake duties or make decisions that call into question his honesty and the service of the interests of the state and the people. A member of the Riigikogu avoids situations where the impartiality of his or her decisions may be questioned and the impression of serving private interests may arise. "And so on, and so on. Very nice document. Why do you and the Reform Party and the entire coalition not follow the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U242	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good answer! We follow good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U243	Mr. Lotman, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U244	Yeah. For the sake of the stenogram, I consider it necessary to fix that the text that was read to us was not only empty but also misleading, as we understood the lines of my fellow Members Mr Metsoya and Mr Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U245	Mr. Chef, Aivar, please! [[Silence.]] Aivar Chef, you're out of range. (Aivar Kokk: "Do you hear me? ") Yes, but stay in one place, you will be better heard. (Silence, then Aivar Chef: "Are you listening now? ") We can hear you intermittently, but let's try to... (Aivar Kokk: "Is there a hearing now?" ... Yeah, well, let's try, let's start talking, then we'll understand. Unfortunately, we have to admit that your Internet connection is a bit poor. (Aivar Kokk: "Are you listening now? ") Well, let's try it again. All right, let's get Aivar Coke again right now. Let's see if we can make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U246	I have, good manager and waitress, one question. The minutes shall not reflect the actual course of the sitting. Perhaps you could still tell us what was going on in that committee and what the questions were upstairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U247	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! As a result of today's debate, you have received a very comprehensive overview of what the Committee on the Environment discussed under this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U248	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U249	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Perhaps you would still mention the weaknesses of Metsoja, which is why he can no longer be a member of the RMK Council. In our group, then, we would also know what the strengths of Metsoja are and what are still weak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U250	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! Andres Metsoja is certainly a man of many strengths.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U251	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I will pick up where my colleague, Jaak White, left off. He asked you how much the members of the council paid, and you did not answer his specific question. But here it is that you basically assign yourself the benefit, no matter how big it is. Do you do this properly as the head of the Commission? There is also the Korb problem, which was highlighted here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U253	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I take the possibility of becoming a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK primarily as a major responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U254	I would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone can ask a question. Paul Puustumaa has already asked his question. Mart Helme, is there a procedural or substantive question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U255	The presenter of the bill has systematically failed to answer questions, has systematically tried to leave the Commission's meeting a wrong impression and has clearly remained silent when determining his duty of due diligence and conflict of interest to the RMK Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U256	No more questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. First of all, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Mr Kruusimäe wishes to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U257	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good co-workers in this hall and those who participate via the Internet, but also, of course, all Estonian people who think that the Estonian forest is important to us, both the enemies of the forest and friends of the forest! In fact, our world is divided into black and white: some love the forest, others who do not do so warmly are, of course, enemies. In the RMK Council, I have had the honour of having two seasons. And they were extremely interesting to me. Many may ask what the city boy did there. It was sent, but it's not what I want to talk about right now. What I want to say is that the State Forest Management Centre is under very strong pressure. Anyone who can take a picture with a mobile phone, namely, thinks that if a tree is on its side, there is already a slurry cut and it should be stopped. We live in an environment where everyone is a dendrologist and people know exactly where to do it. In such a situation, it is extremely poor that as a Riigikogu, we send two people to represent ourselves there. I'm not talking about whether two are small or much. But we all have to explain to our constituents why our choice is this today. Yeah, it's no big secret that we can put an equal sign: Porto Franco = RMK. And it is no big secret that, in this light, in the Coalition Council, the Fatherland definitely questioned whether Mikhail Korb could continue in this situation in the Council. But you see, Jüri Ratas acted faster: Wiggly, and disbanded the government. Does that mean the Corporal doesn't have a shadow? Today, in fact, all of us, no matter what group we are, are being looked at, that is the current level of the Riigikogu. Other members of RMK's Supervisory Board ask: listen, Riigikogu, is that all you can put out today? Didn't you ever think you'd harm RMK's reputation? Is it just one person from the Centre Party and one person from the Reform Party? I was perhaps even a little more optimistic at first, but if the waitress here basically places herself in a paid position and does not see a conflict of interest in it, I remember that it has been said that this party has a big plan. We're asking where the big plan is. There's just no big plan, because the other one doesn't know what time it's gonna be a pretty big plan. I remember the year 2013, when Fatherland and I went to the local elections. Yoko always said that there was a very good plan in Tallinn: an innovative environment. And we asked him to see one A4 about it, but it didn't come. The city of Tallinn also made an innovation commission, but it didn't do any good. There was a Central Partyman there, and they were lucky and lucky, and four years later, something came together. That's what happens when there's no plan. But, Mikhail Korb, I'm telling you honestly, you have somewhere else you can do favors. Today a good group leader would chew it out quickly and say that it is not good for the reputation of the Riigikogu or for the reputation of political parties. But there is no such good group leader at this point. Even if this problem were to be brought to this hall, painted yellow or red or blue or green, it would still not be seen. And that puts us in a difficult position. I, who I have been in RMK's council twice and I have beaten heads and feet for what is happening there, must now explain that yes, this is the true level of our Riigikogu today, dear forest lovers. Yeah, well, that's the best we could do, we've been trying, but really, the bench is so short. Pink is so short! The Fatherland disagrees with this and the Fatherland votes against.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U258	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U259	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's a little weird to listen to this debate. I've also been to the RMK Council. I don't want to talk about content. First of all, in the defence of Yoko Alender, he is open, innovative as the leader of the Commission, and I like it. Not all committee chairmen have been like that. That's one. However, there are many buts here. Yes, indeed, Yoko, as Chairman of the Commission, said when the members of the KIC Board were first discussed and after RMK's: "Yes, I am in favour of the Reform Party. "Although a good colleague, former Minister of the Environment Heiki Kranich sits at the table and former Deputy Mayor of Keila, Timo Suslov, too. Of course it was a virtual table. What is important is that this debate in the Committee on the Environment had all the virtual looks and all the other things that are in the ordinary committee session, unfortunately, were not. And as a result, the protocol is incomplete, severely deficient. And not just this protocol. But indeed, as Tarmo Kruusimäe pointed out: there is a conflict of interest either to say softly or not to say softly, when the chairman of the committee sets himself up. There was definitely a party behind this, and it's a paid place. I don't remember how much this salary was, but anyway, it's a paid job. So it's a reward. It's not pretty. And now if we could look at what this RMK board looks like. The company sits occasionally, four times a year behind closed doors, gets together, eats and drinks before and after, discusses things. Üllar Saaremäe here pointed out that corruption was not a problem at all. I would point out that the problem is not, in fact, a lack of competence either. I recall the composition of the RMK Council: there have also been ship captains who know the sea but not the forest. That's right. Whoever the party sends, it goes. That's where I protect Yoko. The party must have trusted him, but not Heiki Kranich or Timo Suslov of the members of the committee or the rest of them. And I suppose the Central Party trusts Mikhail Korb, who was recently Secretary General, and now has this suspicion of corruption on his back. That's just the way it is. This is the political logic behind it. This may not be acceptable, and I do not like it at all, that competence is not important, and that is not important, be it or the suspicion of corruption. But I would remind you that we really discussed this at this virtual meeting. And the atmosphere was such that, in fact, the very decision that the honourable Yoko Alender is presenting could have dealt with Mikhail Korb's question, personality, and two things at once. But the idea, or at least the atmosphere in the committee, was that we take one thing at a time. Right now, the party has just submitted his candidacy and let's figure out how to get Andres Metsoja out of there, because that's the political logic. And the question isn't whether Andres is sharing anything from the Metsoja forest. He's just not in the right party right now because there are other parties in the coalition right now. It was that simple, actually. It was discussed and quite a lot discussed as much as possible in the virtual session, but unfortunately this is not reflected in the protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U260	Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U261	Yeah! Thank you. I mean, I think there is a conflict of interest in this Chamber right now. And it is the duty of every citizen of the Republic of Estonia to intervene immediately in the offence and report the offence. As regards conflicts of interest, §11 (1) of the Anti-Corruption Act states: "The public is prohibited from performing an act or decision if there is at least one of the following: (1) the decision or act is taken against the authority itself or against a person associated with it;" And the responsibility for such a case is such that in the event of a breach of an operating restriction the person is the police authority or the Defence Police Department. I ask: since this fact has now been identified, is the President of the Riigikogu currently ready to inform the police authority or the defence police about the violation of the operating restriction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U262	Thanks, but it wasn't a procedural question. Lauri Western Forest on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U263	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying in one of the speeches that RMK is under a lot of pressure, because many people are taking pictures of cutting stakes and there are problems. I would specify: RMK is not under pressure from the people who take pictures of cutting stakes, but from the decisions of the government and the Riigikogu which determine the dividend yield to RMK. And here come the railings. In this sense, however, this is the way to solve the problem. I personally do not see a direct conflict of interest in the fact that the Chairman of the Environment Committee is a member of the RMK Council. Rather, I expect the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment to take up this issue and we would hear about the reduction of dividends in the new state budget. Then the real problem will be wrestled. But now from a specific bill. However, it is difficult to support this. The same subject that has been up in this Chamber for a long time: if the person who has had the suspicion of corruption still wants to remain in that council, I think we should not support it. Let's look at the general picture! And now I am actually looking at the reputable Reform Party and the esteemed Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The general picture of eradicating corruption, including political corruption, does not speak the language that the Prime Minister and the Reform Party have been telling us all along. Let us think about the next item: the coalition wishes to vote down the committee of inquiry, which could investigate all such matters. And even though the government approved an anti-corruption action plan, then, oh, surprise! There is no dealing with political corruption there. It's not there! It is simply said that there was no time, that we had to present this plan quickly. I don't know who pressured it except the government itself. We hear that the Minister of Justice intends to deal with issues of political corruption. It is said that the various parties must be involved, that there must be discussion, that working groups, committees and that God knows what other discussions are to be held. We all know what that means. This means that in two years' time, there will be a situation where there will be elections, and, oh, there will never be one to deal with. Very sad! I have even wondered which parties are then tried to be involved in the law on political parties: are those who could be donors or those who are recipients of the money? That's what we might know. Perhaps this draft would be quite different if the context were not generally such. The context, however, is that words speak one thing, deeds do you. And that is why the Social Democrats cannot vote for it. And, of course, I will also bring another important reason. We have had the custom that the RMK Council includes not only representatives of the coalition but also representatives of the opposition. Now there are no representatives of the opposition! There is no desire to balance it in any way. But when we think about the State Forest Management Centre, when we think about the Estonian forest and how many topics are around it, I think that in terms of balancing, it would be very important for both the opposition and the coalition to be represented in the RMK Council. Then, on the one hand, it would be a shared responsibility and, on the other hand, it would be much easier to solve this rather complex issue as a society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U264	The political groups have no further wish to speak. We can go to the final vote. Mart Helme, you have a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U265	I propose not to vote on this draft because Yoko Alender has a clear conflict of interest. He will receive EUR 1 000 per month as a member of the Council, but he has not withdrawn from the vote in the Commission and is not going to withdraw from the vote now. In my opinion, there are completely corrupt elements here, and I am proposing that we do not vote on this draft right now. We will certainly also consider addressing the police in the group, because it is corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U266	It wasn't a procedural question. I would like to point out to you that the lead committee has proposed a final vote on the draft 343. And that's what we're going to prepare. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and appointment of a new member" submitted by the Environmental Committee 343. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U267	The draft decision was supported by 53 members of the Riigikogu; 39. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U268	Our seventh item is the number 319 of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a committee of inquiry of the Riigikogu to investigate the feasibility, effectiveness and possible corruption in the implementation of the resolution by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member, Raimond Kaljulaid, concerning the crisis related to the spread of the Corona virus causing COVID-19 disease and the ensuing consequences of the emergency situation. The initiators' report is made at first reading by Lauri Läänemets, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U269	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The crisis in the Corona virus has meant the loss of jobs and incomes and uncertainty for thousands of people in Estonia. Whole sectors of the economy have suffered huge losses and businesses have lost their built-up businesses over the years and created value. In this light, the sense of justice in society is extremely damaging to the fact that there are grounds for suspecting people in high political positions that funds intended to alleviate the crisis have been sought to be used in the personal interest or also to finance the party's local election campaign. Law enforcement bodies are investigating specific cases. The task of the Riigikogu, however, is to look at the whole picture and all government decisions to use public funds. EUR 827,6 million was allocated for grants and measures to mitigate the crisis related to the spread of COVID-19 disease-causing corona virus and the consequences of the resulting emergency situation. And as we know, the new additional budget, which will soon be presented to the Riigikogu to alleviate the ongoing crisis, will be 641 million euros. We are essentially talking not only about millions, but more than EUR 1 billion. And let it be said that not all of this is being done or, at least in the spring side, has not been done in this ordinary rhythm of peaceful budgeting and the rhythm of drawing up various measures, but it has been done in a crisis situation, which means haste, which means much less involvement, which means much less disclosure, and which can also create much more different issues and opportunities for misuse of this money. Doubts about the circumstances of the loan of EUR 39,4 million to Porto Franco for real estate development in the context of crisis measures have proved to be serious. The former Secretary-General of the Centre Party, Mikhail Korb, as well as the former Minister of Finance's advisor Kersti Kracht and one entrepreneur and several others have been questioned about corruption crimes. And the Centre Party. We know that there are all sorts of crisis measures around the world. Such crisis packages have always been a danger where someone can take advantage of them in order to achieve non-public objectives. Maybe it could be a corrupt road. Our proposal by the Committee of Inquiry is more specifically that the representatives of all the parties represented in the Riigikogu will be involved in this committee of inquiry. This committee of inquiry should identify the usefulness and efficiency of the support measures implemented, the number of persons affected by the decision-making process to implement the grant or financial instrument and their impact on the decision-making process. It shall also look at the beneficiaries and the donations and other benefits of the persons associated with them to the political parties and members of their governing bodies and to the persons associated with them. We see that the Riigikogu expects the Commission to analyse possible corruption and draw conclusions on the circumstances that have contributed to it, as well as proposals on what changes need to be made in order to avoid similar corruption opportunities in the future and to ensure the legal and effective use of public funds. I would like to draw immediate attention to an issue which was also raised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when discussing this draft. The question is that we already have two committees: the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption, which, as if they could cover the issues that this committee should do, but that is not the case. It's definitely not like that. Although these committees have examined or have been told that they intend to investigate, they do not [have] such a purpose and do not look at such an overall picture. Moreover, they do not analyse the use of this money on the substantive side that how sensible these things have been for the State. It does not always have to be a question of whether this is an abuse of money, yes, there are a number of doubts now, but the question is whether, at all, these decisions were reasonable, so that we as Parliament, so that the government, the future governments, too, can do much better and more meaningful work. These tasks certainly do not extend to these committees. And the duties of the Committee of Inquiry cannot be assigned to the committees of the Riigikogu which are already operating because it is only by failing to appear before the Committee of Inquiry without cause, by failing to provide data or documents, or by refusing to provide explanations or answer questions, that is punishable by law. I would like to point out that the Committee of Inquiry is the only one who, according to the law, can apply such forms of punishment or so-called coercion. Other committees, which could look at crisis measures in the end, cannot do so by law. They can ask you to come in, come in, talk, but unfortunately, that's all they can do. I hope that was enough for the time being. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U270	Yeah, thanks! Indeed, you also have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U271	Good manager! Good waitress! Abuse and use of common money, slipping into the pocket of rags, I don't think one of us can agree with that. At least I can't accept that. And if money comes quickly in the case of a pandemic really needs to be spent quickly, etc., then this risk, the risk of corruption, is certainly very high. And I know the competent bodies are working on it on the broad front. But my question to you. I like to make such committees of inquiry in my own right, so let me put it straight. In the case of the Port of Tallinn, I have participated in it myself, even though it is as if it has sunk. Do you have any information on who's been there the most tornadoes? Has the money gone into the pockets of the Centre Party or those associated with it, or do the Social Democrats have a hard score? Who's got more?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U272	Thank you. For me, as well as for our group, we know exactly what I think we all know and have heard about the public. But I think that what we have heard in public and seen what law enforcement authorities have said should be enough to understand that there are problems here. And I think it should also be enough from international experience that such large and rapid crisis relief measures, or such exceptional financial decision-making measures, sometimes raise such concerns. I think that should do it. Of course, I think that we should not have anything against it by anyone, by any political group or by any member of the Riigikogu, if this matter is looked at more closely, if it is the case with competent conclusions, and if it will enable us to better resolve these crisis issues or make better financial decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U273	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U274	Thank you, Mr President. Good Lauri! As Chairman of the Special Committee on Corruption, of course, I have followed with great interest this debate and, in particular, [the one that took place] in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when discussing this draft decision. As you mentioned, the study of corruption and rationality and other such issues is being carried out by the committee that I am in charge of. And, as you rightly pointed out, the Special Commission and the Committee of Inquiry have very different competences. The Special Committee on Corruption has the right to request to come and ask for documents. The committee of inquiry shall have the right to demand, to impose and also to force the submission of such documents and the appearance of [persons]. If we also put here an attempt to increase the membership of these committees by additional members of the coalition in order for the coalition to be in the majority there, do you not feel that, with these steps, the failure of this committee of inquiry and the change in the composition of the special committees, the coalition is attempting to suppress all this investigation in order not to actually give parliamentary control over these crisis measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U275	Yes, thank you! I think it's right to see this problem here. If this issue were now to be discussed and investigated by the Committee of Inquiry, there would indeed be one person in each political party. As we know, the coalition has now issued drafts to amend the composition of these two special committees in order to achieve the majority of the coalition. Which, of course, means that if you have a majority, you're not going to shut up there, but you're just going to vote down those opportunities to even explore them. And this is a serious problem, and I think it's a sign of danger. And that is why it is very difficult to believe in Kaja Kallas and the Reform Party that the eradication and prevention of political corruption is, in essence, intended to be dealt with. I must also mention that it was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the argument was that the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption, they both have [this] work plan and they are already working on it. I did, and that's not true. Dear coalition ambassadors, it is not true what your main argument is against this bill. The reality is that the Special Committee on National Budget Control has discussed this issue once, they do not have any decisions, and no decisions that this issue is being discussed or examined yet. Yes, if a coalition ambassador is going to raise it there, then yes, but no decisions have been made. Hopefully, they will look, but to count on it, and now to say that this committee of inquiry is not necessary, it cannot be argued. The Special Committee on Corruption has a fundamental decision that it should be examined. How, how, how, we don't know that. And in the meantime, if these two coalition drafts are approved in this Chamber, that the majority is in the hands of the coalition in this committee, then there may not be any substantive investigation at all. We don't know what it's gonna be. I now touch on this issue, too, which was raised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Namely, I know that the next committee rapporteur says that it does not matter at all which committee is, because according to § 23 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which allows this committee of inquiry to invite people to the committee and to implement various measures, such as fine-making, it cannot be implemented because the law does not have the precise and sufficiently written out of this implementation. First of all, I'd say an incredible comment. Unbelievable! It's a pattern, by the way! This is a pattern in the sense that this is also the case for the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. There are also sections in the law and the Commission can do eleven or three, but how, it has not been written in and [these things] the Commission cannot do in essence. It now turns out that we have the only committee in the Riigikogu who, according to the law, would have the right to impose or adopt different measures, but it is said that it is not possible. What do you mean? I proposed in the Commission that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should deal with this matter without delay. But in fact, we were also told what has been discussed earlier in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this subject, and I say that there is an opportunity. In this sense, the fact that it is not there today does not mean that, in the meantime, we have a proposal that the committee of inquiry should work for a year at least, at least a year, perhaps more than the Riigikogu considers necessary, in that time we would not be able to correct these errors in the law. So if there is a will, then that is no argument today to say that no, we cannot do that in the Committee of Inquiry. And just as we were introduced in the Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed this issue in the past and, in fact, the right to impose a fine is, as is the case, the law on legal proceedings for constitutional review, for example, must be amended, and provision must also be made for the Committee of Inquiry to have the power to give a fine order for compulsory enforcement and such matters. These ideas exist, there are no problems with implementation. In this sense, it would be the only real opportunity to do a really good job studying this matter. When we say that let the other committees deal with it, they do not have so many opportunities, they cannot be expanded in this form either. There may not be any logic today, is there? This should be the only place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U276	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U277	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I commend you for this optimism, but I do not understand that corruption would be a major problem for the people of Estonia, for example. I would remind you that in 2017 in the local government elections, Isamaa went to ask the people for a mandate to see if corruption is a major problem in Tallinn. We thought corruption was a big problem, but the people thought it wasn't, and our mandate is five ambassadors. Perhaps this multiculturalism has brought us here today that corruption is an integral part of business culture. This gives people the opportunity to get their mediocre or below mediocre ideas, thanks to the support of money, to a leading position in the face of super-good and ingenious ideas. Do we not take away the possibility that our mediocre world suddenly becomes more colourful when we ban corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U278	Thank you. First of all, I think corruption is a problem for the people of Estonia. I actually remember research, at least research, not election results. Perhaps this is not such a big and important issue in the elections; there are other important things. According to research, people condemn it, they don't like it. But I think that those who should definitely think that corruption is a big problem, and understand its links to democracy and people's livelihoods, if their money goes to the wrong place, there will be some important subsidies that will not be paid, these people will be in this Chamber. I think that Members must understand that corruption is a major problem, be an example, no matter what one person thinks. I think it's our responsibility. And that would actually oblige the Riigikogu in some respects to examine and analyse these issues. I would like to emphasise once again that this committee is not some sort of penalty committee, but it should make clear both the infringements that have occurred and see if there could have been something better to be done somewhere, so that we can learn lessons for the future. I see no reason why anyone would object to such an idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U279	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U280	Thank you. I could object to that idea because you've been lying here for a quarter of an hour, claiming that the Special Committee on State Budget Control has not discussed the subject. He's discussed it many times since this one time. Since Eduard Odines does not know what another Commission has done, it is understandable. But you were able to verify that the Special Committee on State Budget Control has repeatedly and continuously monitored the feasibility of measures and the use of money. And the natural reason for not voting is that the opposition has been outnumbered there. Please tell the Riigikogu where you checked that the special committee has no interest in dealing with this issue!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U281	Thank you, dear Jürgen Ligi. Yes, I have to tell everyone that Jürgen Ligi is absolutely right. Maybe it just sounded wrong or halfway what I said. I also said this right here on the board that the Special Committee on State Budget Control has discussed these issues. But this statement, which the Coalition said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that it is still being discussed and analysed, and that is why it is not necessary to set up a committee that is not the case. I have also examined it today from Commission officials whether there is any kind of plan of work, and I am talking about the future that will now be done. No, there is no working plan, there is no decision by this committee to do so. I think that we have no doubt that the Special Committee on National Budget Control is still looking at these things. I must say to Jürgen Ligi's recognition that I think Jürgen Ligi, as chairman of this committee, did a good job earlier on these issues. And, in my opinion, on his question, Mr Near also said that, unfortunately, not all things could have been done the way they wanted to be, because the coalition had an excess. I understand that this is exactly what the new coalition is trying to do with these committees. In this respect, the setting up of a committee of inquiry is well founded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U282	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U283	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As we have just seen here with the previous vote, corruption is no concern for the majority of the Riigikogu. Now we are talking about the formation of a next committee of inquiry to investigate possible corruption, where there are representatives of all the political parties in the Riigikogu, also a representative of a party suspected of corruption. How good is it? What is the benefit if the Commission also has a man in Havana? So whoever is assigned to this party, the whole party has become a criminal suspect. What is the benefit of this Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U284	Thank you. I think that no parliamentary party, if we create a parliamentary investigation committee, makes sense to be excluded from it. We don't want to set up a penalty committee here where we point a finger at someone that you're supposed to have committed a crime now, and we're gonna meet here with another group to punish you. No. I think that every political party must have the opportunity to speak with the Commission, to raise issues, because, I would point out, the same principle applies in principle to the Committee on the Monitoring of the Financing of Political Parties, where there is a representative of each parliamentary party. You could ask the same question. But sometimes it may happen that this party, who suddenly has committed some kind of violation at random or in a non-random manner, and this question is being discussed, yes, in this matter it has its own interests at stake, but sometimes it also knows something about someone else to say or ask. So I think he is balancing and, in fact, moving forward, because the assumption is that at least the other members of the Commission, the representatives of other parties, have no interest in covering these things in any way for this one party there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U285	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U286	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am simply taking this opportunity to hold a debate, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs thinks that there will be no second reading. And then it won't come, the bill will be voted down, and this debate will be the last thing we have in the interests of the verbatim. I'm asking if we shouldn't look out of the frame. We want to regulate this corruption to some extent, well, we would also like to regulate political prostitution, but maybe we should let it all go free, the way of self-loathing. Maybe we'll have cowboy capitalism again, toner bees will fly, maybe it'll be clearer, we'll have beautiful sights, and we'll be back to where we're really willing to hold hands and eat potato peel so Estonia can be free. But at the same time, the world's narrowest two occupations, corruption and prostitution, we cannot eliminate them. Or should we definitely push through the wall so that maybe we can keep corruption in check?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U287	I think we should not regulate corruption; we should make sure that there is no corruption. Regulated corruption must not be what any of us want. Or maybe it's precisely the result of such a society, by the way, where we don't have any rules, there's someone who's going to regulate this corruption himself. However, I think that our aim should be to prevent corruption. That's the most important thing. And the less corruption there is, the fairer the nature of society is. As I said, the same example can actually be found in the Porto Franco case. For example, if this loan of 40 million had not gone to Porto Franco, then perhaps this money would have been supported or helped by someone else. And in this sense, corruption has a very direct impact on people's livelihoods. That is one important thing that we must bear in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U288	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I believe that your life's many-sighted eyes had not seen the same sight as was seen at the committee meeting, where the representative of the Estonian Conservative People's Party will fight for the decision made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid as a lion. The point is that you were dealing with Porto Franco [the question] at the hearing, but I think that this subject is much wider. And it's still about, let's say, vaccines. That's what's floating out. In other words, vaccines are distributed outside the queue to selected persons, to persons in high positions. Do you agree with my view that this committee was not wanted to be formed because such corrupt elements would otherwise float out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U290	Thank you. For what reason the coalition does not want to form this committee, the coalition can best say for itself. But in this I am absolutely convinced that vaccination, the financing of vaccination, should also be one of the activities of this committee, which this committee looks at and evaluates, because it goes into the same package of crisis measures. And indeed, it has puzzled me, too. I think the subject of vaccination has been very much discussed here in the remote and in the hall, but a situation where people my age and younger write to a family doctor and say that you know, if you have a vaccine, you can invite me to inject, and then one gets an injection in three days' time and the other gets a time in a week, then, well... In the light of my personal life and the experience of all of us, there are very many questions about the organisation and conduct of this vaccination system. As always, the question is how this process has been managed. And I think that maybe there might be a question on the edge that this committee might be looking at. Whether this management process has really been thought out, whether the right decisions have been made at the right time and whether there has been some sort of one or another or a third interest. Yes, this committee can really look at this. And when someone has something to worry about, they don't want it to come out, of course they don't want to be in favour of it. But if there's anything, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U291	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U292	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We've spread out a bit here, the bill still concerns COVID in particular. Having been in the government and had also been in the Riigikogu and seen how much money is spent on fighting COVID, though it is on vaccines, on benefits, on wage compensations, but on sick days, these are huge sums within the framework of the Estonian state's budget. It is indeed extremely appropriate here to form a control group, we call it the Commission or whatever that would look at everything that has been spent over the last year. I don't want to get the previous government out of focus here either, but these sums have been in hundreds and hundreds of millions. If we see that at the same time we have very high levels of chaos both in vaccination and in other areas, then obviously some control is needed. In this respect, I would like to say that I do not have the question that we will definitely support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U293	Thank you very much, very reasonable!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U294	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U295	Thank you for giving me the floor again. I rather want to correct my previous question that maybe it sounded [wrongly] or got a little misunderstood. I did not mean that I would now ban membership of some political parties from belonging to a committee, especially the Committee on Corruption. Definitely members of all political parties, representatives of all political parties must be there in the committee. But rather perhaps a party that was suspected during such a parole could simply disband. I believe that the Fatherland Party is willing to take all of these fine politicians under the guarantees of its own party in order to rehabilitate [they].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U297	Tarmo Kruusimäe, is it a procedural [question]?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U298	Yeah, procedural. Good Vice-Chairman, can you tell me how it is possible today that if a member of the coalition reports a draft, he can be asked one question, but if the opposition is represented, then there are two? Is there a connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U299	No, it's not. There is no such link as you mean. These are different items on the agenda. Due to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and the decisions of the Riigikogu Board on how one or the other item of the agenda is dealt with, the members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask questions equally on one item of the agenda, regardless of whether it is a member of the opposition or a member of the coalition. Riina Sikkut, please! Riina Sikkut! I can't hear you now. Don't we have a connection? Riina Sikkut, we can't hear you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U300	Yeah. I'm hoping Riina Sikkut's connection will be restored, and she can ask after me. And, of course, I would like to thank the EKRE politicians for supporting this bill. Among other things, I acknowledge: a very impressive cactus is in the background of Mart Helme. But essentially, what I wanted to ask you is that there have been considerable obstacles to obtaining information about Porto Franco, and I'll talk about it later. Unfortunately, the government has refused to share information about the Porto Franco transaction with the Riigikogu and probably about other transactions. Would the setting up of this committee of inquiry help us get past this bottleneck? Is it possible for the Committee of Inquiry to obtain from the Government, for example, all the terms of the Porto Franco loan and the materials forwarded to the Cabinet, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U301	Thank you, Mr. Kaljulaid. True, I didn't read out all our explanatory notes to this bill. But one of the reasons for this bill is the same thing that Raimond Kaljulaid just referred to. In the name of Mr Kaljulaid, we have asked the Prime Minister, Jüri Ratas, at the time, to obtain information on the financing of Porto Franco's real estate development decisions: how these decisions were made, what they were, who they were. And I have to admit, it has not been sent to Members of Parliament, unfortunately. There are actually questions. When we discussed this topic in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and asked for the KredEx representative was also one of those who had been invited, from which the decision came that, in the case of such large loans, the government should decide whether it was KredEx's own proposal, then we received the answer that this was not the KredEx proposal, it was a political decision. Given what KredEx says, it was politically decided that, with very large sums of money, politicians, not the system for this purpose and the competent people in the respective institutions, and given that these documents have not been wanted to introduce to the members of the Riigikogu, and given that the police have initiated proceedings to investigate Porto Franco's loan, there is probably quite a lot that this committee of inquiry could and should actually look at. Because not only members of the Riigikogu, but also the people of Estonia want answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U302	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U303	Hi! Thank you, Mr President. Good Lauri! Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U304	Yeah, everyone can hear and see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U305	Thank you. When the current government took office, in a situation where a coalition partner is under investigation as a political party, this issue of corruption will persist as long as strong steps have been taken to eradicate it from our political life. In a situation where we decided to leave the ambassador under criminal investigation at the Council of the State Forest Management Centre a few decades ago, tomorrow we will elect the head of the party under criminal investigation as chairman of the Riigikogu, but the draft of the ERJK has not found the support of the government, the committee of inquiry is advised not to form: Lauri, can you name something the government has done to eradicate political corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U306	Thank you, good question! I have to say, really not because of the bad, maybe I have a poor memory, that I don't remember right now what has been done for it besides words. I don't remember things. It is certainly possible for some coalition ambassadors to immediately ask a question and answer it in the form of a question, so that perhaps my speech may not remain unfairly one-sided. But if I recall, really, the questions Riina Sikkut has just read and what concerns the extension of the rights and opportunities of the ERJK, as we know, the Social Democrats have submitted the corresponding draft to the Riigikogu and the Government's assessment, there is an opinion on this draft. And the opinion is, I understand that in this case it is not necessary and that there is a need to discuss and think and ask. Well, I don't understand what more needs to be thought when the Political Financing Supervisory Commission and the Chancellor of Justice have turned to the Riigikogu several times and said that you see, you know, we have in this law that we can keep the state funding for political parties if there have been violations, but exactly how to do it, it is not written in the law, please solve the problem. I ask that if we have submitted a draft and the solution of this problem is well written, then maybe one comma or another comma could discuss how to do it better. But what else is there to discuss, I don't understand. You can essentially discuss whether we do this or not. These are actually questions, I totally agree with that. Personally, from the moment this government takes office, I have not noticed much, apart from the beautiful words, that the Reform Party in particular would like to deal with no acts of prevention, grubbing-up and consequences of political corruption. And I'm afraid these actions may not reach us in the form that they really need. Because if we look at that... The questions of the ministers' advisers, yes, can be said to be dealt with by the ministers' advisers. This bill, it came to mind, is on its way to us, or even has already reached the Riigikogu. That proposal is made, yes, so one thing can still be written down. I understand that the issue of lobbying, lobbying organisations or groups, and their registration or legalisation, are also being dealt with. But I would like to stress that, although these are also very important things, they are not the most important shortcomings in terms of 'political corruption', which should be addressed first. I listened here to the last hearing of the Special Committee on Corruption, which was public. The representatives of the ERJK also said that if these shortcomings, which are written in it, were resolved now, they would be able to do their work much better and more effectively and examine, for example, the issues they have on the table, most of which are sorry, I cannot say that most of them, I do not know what they have on the table, but many of which are related to the Centre Party. And if you start rolling from here, you might just feel like there's no will. There's no will! The Reform Party has no will, the Centre Party has no will. But it could be. Because it doesn't matter whether you're in a coalition or not, or what kind of party you belong to, or what your worldview is, I think we could all have one understanding, one will on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U307	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U308	Thank you, Mr President. Good Lauri! Indeed, these government initiatives, which are, are that a code of lobbying is coming up, a code of prevention of conflicts of interest for senior public officials is coming up, a law on the protection of whistleblowers is coming up and an action plan against corruption has already been approved. But, as you mentioned earlier, the only part of this agenda that is missing is the issue of party funding. Absolutely missing. And that shows the attitude of the current government in this matter. As you mentioned, there is still a sound in the public session, and political corruption, the funding of political parties, was taken as the first topic in the presentation of Corruption-Free Estonia. This is very serious, and it does not show the government's normal attitude to this issue. But I'm asking you this now. However, I did not realise that if the ordinary special committee had the right to call on people and to request documents, those who are invited and asked to do so would not, in fact, be obliged to attend or present documents. In the case of a committee of inquiry, this obligation is enshrined in the law. Have the coalition ambassadors explained in any way in the discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs how these corruption cases can be investigated if there are no rights and obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U309	Thank you, dear Odines. No explicit explanation has been given as to how it can be investigated. Basically in the Commission, we can hear it from the Commission's rapporteur, but I also have a protocol right ahead of me, it was said that we have also highlighted here in this draft decision as one of the important arguments that you have just said: that it is possible for the Committee of Inquiry to invite people, to ask for different data, and, if they are not given, to take different measures for it. So it's just that, you see, the law actually has a little bit of unsolved details about how it can be done once and for all, and so it can't be done. The arguments were also that let the other committees that we have do, because they're doing anyway, that's what they're going to do anyway. And, as I said, this is not the form they intend to take, half as this committee of inquiry does not plan to look at things and deal with things. As I have pointed out before, for a year, the current proposal is that this committee could act and look calmly at these things. A year is long enough. If we really have a problem with the implementation of this coercion in the law, and if we have any will, then it will be possible to let it pass through this Chamber pretty quickly before Midsummer and maybe make a decision. If not before Midsummer Day, it's fall. But it can be done. And now when we think about what kind of person wouldn't want to come to the committee of inquiry set up by the Riigikogu. Do you happen to be a well-known Estonian entrepreneur who wants to be interviewed? I think he's coming. Or a politician doesn't want to come? I think he's coming, at least we could assume that. It's pretty difficult to explain why you can't come to the Committee of Inquiry one time, another time, on the third time, or you can't submit the data. Yeah, I wouldn't rule out the possibility that this committee of inquiry would actually work, and if there really is such a situation that someone is told to come, but he won't come, and the Commission will decide to see if this person has to get a financial penalty or if there has to be something else, then the law is written. However, as we were informed in the committee, there is no extra-judicial judge in the letter, but this task has been assigned to the court. Then there will be a major legal debate of this kind. But I wouldn't be afraid to go that way either. In short, in the end, that is what this is all about: will. This means whether they want to investigate whether they want to deal with political corruption. And not only with political corruption, because, I stress, this bill has also been presented with this idea, so that we can have a better experience, we can get knowledge, we can better solve such issues as a state, as a Riigikogu, as a government, as various agencies in the future. So that we can make legislative changes or avoid possible problems in the future. This isn't a punishment commission. This is the Commission in order for everyone to have clarity and for all of us to do better, and if, by chance, it really turns out that there have been goats somewhere, these things, too, will not be overlooked.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U310	Thank you. Honourable waitress, there are no further questions for you. Let's keep going. Now I ask Marko Storm, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U311	Good chairman, do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U312	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U313	Very good! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Lauri for stressing the importance of the subject, both the initiators of the report and the draft. In accordance with the mandate obtained by consensus from the members of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on 9 March, I have the opportunity to describe what was discussed in the committee. I will try to be correct and, at the same time, to distinguish my own personal views from the views of the Commission and its members. On the technical side of the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can identify the members of the committee present and the persons invited. Kalle Grünthal, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reinsalu, Mart Võrguship and myself were present. Henrik Kutberg, Financial Instruments Expert of the Economic Development Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ivo Kuldmäe, Chairman of the Board of the Foundation KredEx, and Taavi Pern, the leading public prosecutor, also Head of Communication of the Public Relations Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, Epp-Mare Kukemelk, together with Intern Pillemari Lilleoru. On 17 March 2021, it was decided by consensus to put a draft 319 plenary session on the agenda for the rapporteur who had already been appointed to the consensus. Now, on the inside. The background to the draft initiative has already been highlighted by the previous speaker in many respects, but I allow myself to take extracts from the minutes of the Commission sitting and from the text of the draft initiators' draft and its explanatory memorandum to illustrate the debate that took place in the Commission. On the basis of § 20 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, a committee of inquiry is to be set up to investigate the feasibility, effectiveness and possible corruption in the implementation of the COVID-19 crisis and the resulting emergency measures. In conclusion, the initiators of the draft had the following arguments as to the need and justification of the new Commission. Point one: it is necessary to identify the feasibility and effectiveness of the support measures implemented. Point two: It is necessary to identify the range of beneficiaries, the associated donations and other incentives for political parties and the circle of persons affected by the processes and their impact on decisions or decisions. Point three: analyse possible corruption and put forward proposals for the prevention of corruption in the future and for the legal and effective use of public funds. In addition, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Vice-Chairman Lauri Läänemets, at the meeting of the committee which had already been mentioned, stated as an important reason for setting up a committee of inquiry that failure to appear before the committee of inquiry without due cause, failure to provide information or documents and refusal to provide explanations or answer questions would be punishable. I assume that the Riigikogu House and Rules of Procedure Act § 23. But later on. As a result, the work of the committee of inquiry is more effective than the existing Riigikogu committees, including the Special Committee against Corruption and the Special Committee on State Budget Control, have added the Vice-Chairman of the committee. As a complement to an important position, the Commission's statement of reasons by Commissioner Kalle Grünthal can be mentioned separately from the Commission's need for a separate Commission to be able to deal with the issue in depth and the result can be more effective. This view was also supported by Commissioner Paul Puustusmaa. Member of the Commission Urmas Reinsalu noted that the issue of crisis measures was important enough to set up a separate committee of inquiry to investigate it. I quote: "The committee will have the means to identify the truth at its disposal to find out what really happened. The creation of a committee of inquiry will increase public confidence in Parliament and show that Parliament is interested in the truth. " Member of the Commission, Kalle Grünthal, added that the Commission would not only investigate Porto Franco's case but also other corruption cases related to the implementation of crisis measures, even for example cases related to the distribution of Korona virus vaccines. Apart from hearing all parties, including invited parties, and following a constructive discussion, the chairman of the committee, Toomas Kivimägi, put the draft proposal to the vote to close the first reading. The proposal was not supported by votes 5 to 4. Kalle Grünthal, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa and Urmas Reinsalu were in favour of completing the first reading, against Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobenik, Oudekki Loone, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship. Next, the chairman of the committee put the draft proposal to be rejected. The proposal was supported by 5 votes: 4. By Toomas Kivimägi, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship, Kalle Grünthal, Lauri Läänemets, Paul Puustusmaa, Urmas Reinsalu were opposed. And now the reasons that led the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to decide that the issues mentioned should be dealt with, but the creation of a separate committee was not deemed necessary. Point one. These topics, for which the Committee of Inquiry is to be set up, have already been dealt with or described in the work plan of the two special committees of the Riigikogu. Specifically, the Special Committee on State Budget Control chaired by Urmas Reinsalu and the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption chaired by Eduard Odines. These issues continue to be topical in [these] committees and, on the basis of parliamentary good practice, they are led by representatives of opposition parties, strong sectoral leaders. I am pretty sure that the members of the Constitutional Committee who did not support the creation of an additional committee did not want to duplicate the work of the Riigikogu, much less send a signal, as the commissioners already mentioned could not handle their work on these issues. Mr Reinsalus and Mr Odines are highly respected and have our confidence in the leadership of these committees and in the handling of these issues. In addition, I must personally note that the argument, as in a separate committee, that the work is more effective and the focus of the work is greater, is that, after all, these same MPs are largely applicable as Members of the Commission. With the new Commission, there will be no additional amount of workflow and energy. Work must be done with the same people, just the cost of the state and the burden of doing business will increase. Point two. Since the arguments put forward by the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who supported the creation of an additional committee were somewhat contradictory, including with regard to Porto Franco, I consider it important to note that law enforcement bodies dealing with the identification of unlawful activities and the pre-trial investigation: the police, the defence police and the prosecutor's office. The Riigikogu does not have to create a parallel investigation to find out the truth. We trust our national institutions and let experts do their job. We're dealing with facts and the truth we've learned, not speculation. Point three. In many ways, these issues have already been analysed in their desired form. As one of the constitutional institutions, the National Audit Office has carried out reviews of the use of funds allocated to the Rural Development Foundation, KredEx grants and guarantees, and the use of the extraordinary reserve of the Government of the Republic due to the special circumstances of the COVID-19. These materials, assessments and questions are all there for me on this table, marked off. Pure gold. My personal assessment. We already have all the necessary instruments, whether in the form of special committees and the National Audit Office or law enforcement agencies. We take advantage of the contributions of practical people and draw our own conclusions from their work. Do we really have to question the origin of the National Audit Office or question once again the capacity of our own special committees? Point four. According to Vice-Chairman of the Commission, Lauri Läänemets, and I dare say that one of the main arguments about the right to sanction the committee of inquiry is not true in practice. Based on the legal service of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it can be argued that § 23 (1) of the Act on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, referred to, or the sanctioning of failure to appear, is indeed in practice inapplicable due to the fact that the law does not specify an out-of-court practitioner. Up to now, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not been able to change the provision, although it has been discussed several times. Okay. And mainly because of these arguments and possibly also in assessing the pressure on the taxpayer caused by the creation of an additional committee, the Commission's decision is non-consensual, but by a majority, to support the work on these issues within the scope of existing forms of work. The creation of a separate Commission was not considered necessary. As extra notes. As far as I am aware, the annual cost of one such committee is close to EUR 100000, of which around three quarters are the cost of human resources and the rest is the cost of organising the Commission's work. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: it is not a question of whether or not to carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness of grants, but whether this action requires another Commission or whether work can be done with the help of existing committees. Thanks to me! And if there's any question, I'm willing to respond from the point of view of my knowledge and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U314	Thank you. Indeed, there are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U315	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When your current coalition came together, the leader of your government department, Kaja Kallas, said that we were going to fight corruption with all our resources. It was a very clear promise. And also Raimond Kaljulaid, I think, asked Lauri of the West Forest if he knew any of the things the Reform Party has done in the fight against corruption. Lauri complained that maybe she didn't remember there might be something wrong with her memory. Well, I hope the whole Riigikogu hasn't suffered total amnesia, and you're like a member of this government party. Name the actions that the Reform Party, led by Kaja Kallas, has undertaken to combat corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U316	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I would, of course, stick to this issue, which is currently on the agenda. Here, too, I understand, even in replying to my good colleague Lauri, a number of initiatives have emerged that are already being dealt with as drafts by the new government in this year and a half or two months. So these, I believe, should already be a pretty good initiative for now, given the terms of the COVID.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U317	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U318	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! I have a question of how much you discussed in the Commission what is being done in other committees. I am a member of the Corruption Investigation Commission and we endorsed this year's work programme and, unfortunately, we do not intend to study these issues. In this sense, it cannot be said that there would be any duplication of investigation. But I really don't have anything to say about Odinets or Reinsalu's leadership skills. What did you rely on when you described that the Commission trusted them very much, considers them experts in its field, good leaders and very trusts them? What kind of discussion do you draw such conclusions from? What kind of discussion was that? It would be exciting for other ambassadors to listen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U319	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. Indeed, at the meeting of the Commission on 9 March, this issue was under discussion on quite a number of occasions, and both the Chairman of the Commission and others took note of it, at least no one in the Commission disagreed. It was a general idea that it would indeed take place in this form. And, as previously, there was a discussion and debate between my colleague, Jürgen Ligi, and my colleague, Lauri, so I realized that these arguments really do hold true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U320	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U321	Thank you. My question is, when I tried to get information and material from the government about Porto Franco about this transaction, they weren't forwarded to me, referring to business secrecy. And I asked the Chancellor of Justice to assess these circumstances. The Chancellor of Justice concluded that it is not possible to refuse to provide information to the Riigikogu by referring to business secrecy. As far as I know, he has also approached your committee on this matter that it is probably necessary to clarify the rights of the Riigikogu in this matter. Did this in any way come up in committee discussions that Riigikogu members have not been able to get to know the circumstances of the Porto Franco deal so far? And then is there at least progress made in making it impossible for the government to refuse to pass on information to the Riigikogu when it becomes a business secret in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U322	Thank you, good questioner! I do not specifically recall the subject of business secrecy, at least not from the last meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Of course, however, the issue of Porto Franco was sufficiently touched, and on several occasions, especially because we had a guest in the hearing with the leading state prosecutor. But, as you can see, because of the ongoing and ongoing criminal proceedings, the leading state prosecutor, Taavi Pern, did not appear too vaguely and remained solely with their statements and information, which have also been reflected in the media. So, really, I don't remember having this subject in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U323	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It is possible for every member of the Riigikogu to ask two questions on this item. Raivo Tamm and everyone else, we need to limit ourselves to two questions. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U324	Good waitress! Since I will not be able to perform later in the round of negotiations as a member of the Riigikogu, I would just like to mention to you that there have been two presentations by the Commission today in a relatively short time, and they have been like a day and a night, although both from the same party. I thank you for giving me a very thorough overview. I may not like the majority opinion of the Commission, but I just wanted to mention to you that this presentation and your answers to the questions were very thorough, compared to what was done in the past by Yoko Alender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U325	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U326	Riina Sikkut, please! Riina Sikkut has another question, she couldn't ask at her first attempt. Please, Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U327	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm asking you two questions. If the establishment of such a committee of inquiry does not find the coalition's support, how do you see that it is possible to ensure transparency and trust and supervision in the case of the often fast and simplified distribution of exceptionally large funds during the crisis? How can the Riigikogu perform this role of supervision if it really is not in the work plan of the special committees and their hands are somewhat shorter to resolve it? More broadly, this kind of trust in politicians is something we must build ourselves. If you look beyond the crisis measures and the specific committee of inquiry, what is the Reform Party's plan to reduce the risks of political corruption in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U328	Thank you, Honourable Asker, good Riina! In fact, we also touched on the same subject at the last Commission meeting that had already been mentioned. And that was my own question to Taavi Pern in my memory, or at least a discussion on this matter. And the position of the leading state prosecutor, at least, was that, I'm trying to remind you from the head that the more processes are described, reproduced, the less likely there is that your powers will be exceeded and abuses will take place. But there's nothing to do. If we look at even last year's round, it is clear that no member of the government, whether the previous government or the current one, has any experience of such a crisis, I dare say. Compared to the 2009 crisis, the current situation is very different. And the swift intervention of the rulers has been called for by this crisis. There's nothing to do. If we are also talking about saving the economy here, a certain decision on the matter is likely to come in for decisions like this in very many countries, and there will always be some question of worldview, depending on the political power that is currently in power. That's how decisions are made. I, who myself have a police background and started my career as a criminal police officer, believe that we can never take all the risks to zero in any decision-making process. However, exactly as has already been mentioned, we can create an environment where it is easier for law enforcement authorities to detect these potential abuses. Perhaps once again, the forms to be reproduced, the records. And the more things like that come out, the more you can say that, the better for all of us. It acts as a warning example for other potential abusers and inspires confidence that the systems are working. I guess he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U329	Raivo Tamm, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U330	Yeah. Thank you, President of the sitting. I'd like to launch a procedure like this so that maybe we can take a break from this corruption. I see how unhappy and sad the waitress is right now. We have just seen with the vote that corruption is not a problem for the majority of the Riigikogu, but now we want to set up another committee here. Why don't we take a break from this corruption, as people say about sports, that there is no pure sport, that everyone is using doping, and that's why they should be hired for doping. Why don't we let this corruption go to freefall now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U331	Thank you. Corruption could take some time off, but this proposal...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U332	Now I didn't exactly understand whether or not an answer was expected. But in fact, Mr Riina was also answered that we could never bring the risks to zero. The more such things are discovered, in any part of society or at what level, the more clearly we can see that our democracy is working and that our law enforcement bodies are doing a good job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U333	Thank you. This procedural question was meant for the manager. I must say to Mr Tammele that this procedural proposal is rather not in accordance with the rules of procedure and with the rules of procedure, which we cannot take into account. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U334	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Dear waitress, good Marko! You argued that there is no point in wasting additional administrative resources if we already have two committees that can do this work. At the same time, you probably know very well that, in the case of these two committees, another member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the chairman of your group has put forward a bill that cuts the wings of these committees, making the proportion so that the coalition can clearly dominate these committees. In this context, is there a plan to withdraw the proposal put forward by Mart Võrguship? Or how would you explain to the public that the Reform Party actually has a desire to put on political corruption, as Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has promised us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U335	Thank you, good asker, good Indrek! As far as I know, there is no plan to withdraw the bill at this stage. And I think all these claims that someone's gonna cut someone's wings are probably unfair. We're dealing with speculation right now. I do have the fullest conviction that at least the people of our group will make the most of themselves, that such incidents, which have also come out of the media here in recent months, would not have been there in the future, or, if they do, will be discovered and dealt with accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U336	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U337	Thank you, Mr President, and the rapporteur. I'll listen and think about the duplication. Even the legal associations we build up on double checks with internal auditors, external auditors, separate audit committees in municipalities, additional audit obligations, special controls. I still do not understand why Parliament should not take a keen look at this problem here. I don't understand the logic of avoiding your duplication right now. Can you explain again what you see this problem in?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U338	Thanks to the questioner! Good Andres! Of course! In my opinion, I tried to express at least the position of the majority of the members of the Commission, including a personal feeling. Indeed, this avoidance of duplication and the possible use of the entire resource is, in my opinion, absolutely appropriate not only in the Riigikogu, but also in private business and elsewhere in the public sector. If, in this case, we have two of these committees, which can, completely unstoppably and willingly, deal with these issues well and at a good level in depth, I will not continue to consider it reasonable to set up an additional investigative committee if, in fact, all the instruments for dealing with these topics are already in place and created in the Riigikogu parliamentaryally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U339	Eduard Odines, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U340	Yeah, about the name. My name was mentioned at least ten times in the last half hour. I'd like to...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U341	Yes, but the right to reply shall be obtained in accordance with the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure when this is done in the course of negotiations. Negotiations have not yet started. If your name is mentioned during the negotiations, you are entitled to reply, not now. So, looks like there's no more questions. Then thank you to the waitress! Let's move on to the negotiations. The political groups have the right to participate in the negotiations. Peeter Ernits, please, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U342	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to all this talk, I remembered the autumn of 2015. I looked it up, on 27 October we set up a special committee in the Riigikogu to investigate corruption in the Port of Tallinn. I was lucky to be there and to see the whole thing with my own eyes, the body language of the people who came before [Commission]. And indeed, the Committee of Inquiry has its own competence, and the people and officials that are invited there must come. The coercion was not to be applied, although with some people there were [problems], with one of the current honoured citizens. But it was then, and then there was somewhere about 4 million, and there was this part of the party food chain. But now, now, 2020/2021, when this great coronase hit us, it's really urgent for everyone, nobody really knows what to do. But the money is much bigger, much bigger, it's hundreds of millions when it was only 4 million. And it's an old thing that all kinds of raepaps swim out of the water, and it's really good to fish there. And the risk, it's an inevitable risk that if, in unexpected situations where time is short, regulation is weak or nonexistent, [it] has not been developed, these temptations will arise, and always that's when this group of raheppas comes out. Of course, politicians run structures and do their best, and I think that is the case with our government and ministers. But under their shadow are officials. One day [one official] will submit one paper that would need to be obtained quickly, for example. On the second day, another official [second paper]. Since all the time there is crazy speed and everyone understands that this is really a very important thing, the purse irons, the taxpayer's, will also easily go loose. To name a few things, be they the use of these tests or vaccinations or campaigns or, for example, the use of some companies, the use of Synlab, etc., etc., everything has been done miraculously. And those sums, by themselves, may not be large. The campaign that is now going to start, 150,000, well, it's like candy money or even less than all these sums. What am I saying? Things like this in the muddy water, and in a fast situation, there's been a lot, a lot of it. And the risks of trying to turn the money to the left are actually very, very much. I know that right now, all our power structures, both the Central Criminal Police and the CPO, are busy working on it, and I'm keeping my fingers crossed so that they can bring clarity to the house. However, this does not mean that there should not be an analogous committee in Parliament, the Committee of Inquiry, as was the special committee on corruption in Tallinn Port established in the Parliament in 2015. And they have completely different options and tasks. Of course, this committee does not have stalking rights and other things. But Parliament's committee has a role to play, and that would be essential. I would like to remind you that there are also COVID loans, which have been planted here for hundreds of millions, but whose recipients sometimes travel around with Bentleys and Porsches or buy themselves a fancy new jeep after receiving the loan, etc. So, in fact, this coalition proposal that we do not need it, we have other committees that are doing, right, it is exactly the same, it is like déjà-vu to me who I was in Parliament in autumn 2015. We save money here, we save $100,000, and the other committees will do the job. It's not [so], it's a stage that still remembers it. The only thing right now would be to set up such a committee, and we support the creation of this committee. It would shed light and be beneficial for us and the Estonian people. Because not a few million have flown now, but hundreds of millions have flown. And [it] could be illuminated and viewed in parallel with the National Audit Office and other institutions, both the Defence Police and the Central Criminal Police. So I hope that the coalition will also support this very good proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U343	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U344	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U345	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U346	Dear comrades! In the current situation, in which the Government, Prime Minister, has resigned because of the accusation of corruption, at least on the ground that relates to the circumstances in which this committee of inquiry was set up, which does not form this committee? It makes no sense for us to go around the dark details of whether or not we can invite them. The same legal situation, when other committees of inquiry have been set up, has been and will be in place today. As far as Parliament's decision is concerned, it is Parliament's signal that this case is so serious that it deserves special attention. That's the frame of the thing. And that's the starting point for making a decision. They say the law enforcement authorities are working on this. Yeah, that's right. Law enforcement authorities are dealing with this by using the tools of criminal proceedings and also within the framework of criminal proceedings. However, you see, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have raised another additional argument and I find it extremely important that this committee should be formed. In fact, a representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office stated that criminal proceedings are about influencing influence and certain officials in KredEx are affected by any position [to take] and make decisions. My question was that if they had been influenced to make decisions and they did what they would not have done otherwise, then it is important to know whether these persons would continue in KredEx. In reality, the government has now taken a decision to use hundreds of millions of new euros through KredEx. And, you will note, the representative of the state prosecutor's office replied to me: some will continue, some will not continue. He said that in the case of those affected persons whose decisions would not have been such if they had not been affected, there was no reason to initiate criminal proceedings in order to consider them to be suspects. But this situation, no doubt how, in the circumstances of the case, these decisions are to be made, who are affected, does not so much concern the duty of due diligence of the prosecutor's office, which frames itself in a criminal, procedural context, but is precisely the task of parliamentary supervision. Making decisions quickly is the reality and inevitability of life. This does not mean that it is an excuse for Parliament not to apply its particular attention to this case with all the means at its disposal. We do indeed have special committees, we have sectoral committees, we have the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs, and they certainly look at it from their own focus and must do so and it is appropriate to deal with it. But the signal that Parliament is rejecting now does not want to form a committee is, in my opinion, absolutely wrong and vile. The impression remains strongly that there are some reasons, some substantive reasons behind the tent, why it is not recommended that this committee be set up in this case. And the possible procedure for this committee, or the possible conclusions of this committee that may appear there, is uncomfortable for anyone. The assessment made by me and the Isamaa Group is that Parliament has an elementary duty of due diligence in the current situation to set up this committee. The focus of this Commission's tasks and of its investigation can be smoothed out between two readings. However, this signal, if we reject it now, if the representatives of the coalition press, is unambiguous and clear: Parliament does not want to deal with this type of risk of high corruption and the accusations made. And that means, like high corruption we are not dealing with in the corona crisis, it is a coronal crisis, an inevitable companion of the virus crisis. Absolutely, its behaviour, its reasoning, cannot be accepted on such misty and vague grounds, which have not really prevented the formation of different committees of inquiry during previous formations. I have finished my speech. Common sense in voting!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U347	Mr Kaljulaid, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The mandate has arrived, it says here that you are speaking on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U348	That's right. If I may, Mr President, ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U349	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U350	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I often agree with Sir Humphrey from the show 'Yes, Prime Minister' that it is best that important decisions affecting state and social life are made by people who have the relevant competence, the relevant knowledge, the relevant experience and skills. Of course, I do not mean members of the Riigikogu and members of the government who do not normally have these skills, competences and knowledge. Indeed, politicians sometimes try to intervene in national decisions and sometimes they succeed. This usually results in chaos or corruption, such as the same case of Porto Franco. So the less they do, the better. With regard to this committee of inquiry, I think that Mr Grünthal is right: we are speaking, of course, in a much wider picture than the loan decision for Porto Franco. But we are talking about controlling the legality and rationality of spending nearly EUR 1 billion. Of course, we have a good colleague, Mr Odines, who will certainly be led by the Commission to look at these matters, but these have been exceptional decisions, and I think that their control also requires a special committee of inquiry. Yes, the question is wider than Porto Franco alone. But the loan decision for Porto Franco is, I think, a key issue here in this debate. This should also be borne in mind in the vote that we are going to have. The question is how Estonian society and the people of Estonia, as well as our entrepreneurs, can be sure that Porto Franco's decision on the loan was the only questionable decision made during the crisis. And this fortress can still be given to the people of Estonia by a detailed examination of all decisions taken quickly by the government in the Riigikogu. The case of Porto Franco itself was questionable from the very beginning. The Government's arguments as to why it was decided at all to develop luxury real estate in the centre of Tallinn, which in itself is a very profitable and profitable activity, publicly supported, did not suffer any criticism. Let me give you an example. In its written reply to my written question, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has justified the financing of Porto Franco, inter alia, as follows. I quote: "In the short term, or at the completion of the project, the tenants will create an additional 770 jobs in trade and 50 in the hotel industry. " End of quote. I guess that's the kind of data that was reported to the government. I would like to emphasise once again the word 'additional' in the Prime Minister's reply. The tenants create an additional 770 jobs. Does the addition of commercial real estate and commercial premises automatically create additional jobs? Well, let's imagine, for example, that Porto Franco is attracting an existing public institution to become a tenant. Officials who work on a country's territory, for example, will continue to work in a new location. Only the address of the public authority, not the composition, changes. How many additional jobs did it create? With regard to Porto Franco's decision, both the way in which this decision is taken and, for example, the way in which the State has taken into account the value of the guarantee or, rather, the way in which the government has accepted the way in which the value of the guarantee has been calculated is questionable. It was kind of funny listening to a good colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, ask for these decisions to be examined. Interestingly, according to my memory, he was at that table when those clearly questionable decisions were made, and he accepted them. By the way, the exact terms of this loan are unknown to the Riigikogu. The previous Prime Minister twice refused to transmit them. The first time, he referred to business secrecy. After that, I approached the Chancellor of Justice, the Chancellor of Justice analysed it thoroughly, sent a written statement that it was not possible to refuse to provide information by referring to business secrecy. I sent that position to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. But guess yourself, have I gotten to know the circumstances of Porto Franco's loan decision by today? I will certainly appeal again to Kaja Kallas on this issue, and I hope that the new Prime Minister will still forward these documents to me. In this light, how can we be sure that this loan decision was the only one of its kind? Can't be sure! By the way, I don't think it's absolutely credible that Hillar Teder's donations to government departments didn't play any role in making this loan decision. Even if, in the framework of the ongoing police investigation, only the work of the adviser to Mr Helme, the Minister of Finance of the previous government, the public explanations provided by the Secretary-General of the political party that then led the government regarding the coincidence between Teder's donations and the timing of Porto Franco's decisions were extremely unconvincing. But, of course, we are not deciding here today whether Hillar Teder is an honest person, or whether the Centre Party or the persons associated with the EKRE or these parties have broken the law. These decisions are made by the court. But we need to shape the position as to whether the rest of the funding decisions during the crisis deserve to be analysed. I believe that all reasonable people outside the thick walls of Toompea Castle would take the view that, of course, such a commission must be set up. But it is known that not all political parties and colleagues feel that way. Why don't they think so? Even before the police investigation into Porto Franco became public, these very strange contributions were to the Centre Party, to which I referred earlier. And at that time, an overview of the contributions made by Teder was published over a long period of time. News was published on the Estonian National Broadcasting Portal, according to which Hillar Teder has donated more than a million euros to political parties since 2013, which is quite a considerable amount. And that is the amount that is reflected in the official reports of the political parties. What are these real numbers, we don't know. Mr Teder has bestowed on the Reform Party: EUR 651000, but this was the case when the Reform Party was in the government. After the Reform Party dropped out of the government, these sums became much more modest. Then the second most money is the Fatherland, third place is the Centre Party. In fact, these contributions to the Centre Party, for example, have taken place just when the Centre Party is in government. The parties love to stress that donations are world-viewed. It turns out that Mr Teder was a convinced liberal some time ago, then decided that he had become a convinced center, and all this time he has been a convinced conservative. Estonian people were hit by unprecedented difficulties during the crisis, thousands sick, we have lost lives. People's jobs, incomes, companies built for years or decades have gone below the waterline. And in all of this, at least three political parties represented in this Chamber have made decisions that were certainly not in the interests of the state. The question is whose interests they were in. And that, of course, must be investigated. Sometimes it is said that decisions must not only be honest but also look honest. If we do not form this Commission, it does not only look fair, but it is actually not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U351	Thank you. Does Urmas Reinsalu want a word for reply because his name was mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U352	Yeah! Raimond! On the message that it is strange that, although I myself was at the decision-making table, I say that the government must necessarily set up this committee, no, it is not weird. On the contrary, I am the first man to want to find out. I also proposed it as a member of the government. When news came about this criminal procedure, on my proposal, the Secretary of State, along with the representatives of the authorities, was also given the task of carrying out the procedure relating to this decision. According to my better knowledge, just as the government made these decisions on granting loans to these companies, they all came specifically on the basis of the KredEx proposal and were in this form. Nor did the representatives of the prosecutor's office dispute the legality of the Government's decision. But what motives and circumstances may have been behind this preparation, which also brings criminal proceedings to a halt, I am certainly extremely interested here, like the whole public and society. This is the least of our tasks on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U353	Thank you. My ear heard Martin Helme's name during the negotiations, not Mart Helme's name. Mart Helme, is it a procedural question? Martin Helme would have the word for reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U354	Are we on a wire here now, Martin? Since he hasn't signalled, I thought I myself would say that Raimond Kaljulaid was very clearly dealing with one case here, this is Porto Franco, and tried to make it look as if the Estonian Conservative People's Party had also received support from Hillar Teder. I assure you, Hillar Teder has not received our support, has not asked for our support, and if it had been offered, would not have received, just as we have not asked or received money from any other businessman. So such clues...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U355	Good colleague!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U356	... and the political dim Riigikogu speech chair is not correct. And which I would also like to draw attention to...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U357	Good colleague!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U358	... we also support the formation of this Commission. But the much bigger problem is the so-called COVID money movement, which has been through the Ministry of Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U359	Thank you, my good colleague. But this was now an off-Rule of Procedure, because procedural questions are marked when [questions] exist. Raimond Kaljulaid, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U360	Mr President, I really do have a procedural question. If I myself have participated in the negotiations, but after that I am mentioned, do I have the right to reply or do I no longer have that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U361	No, it's not. Only during negotiations on the remote control, if the name is mentioned, is the right to reply. Let's move on with the negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U362	Thank you. I, too, have to admit, had a good time listening to the members of the previous coalition commit themselves to a heated study of their activities by forming a Riigikogu commission. I have to say that it would be extremely useful for my party to constantly hoist this issue in this way and, for example, to find out what it meant that Kersti Kracht's party was eaten by the previous finance minster. But we have a little unspoiled conscience and we have, however, argued over the years against the creation of such additional committees. I certainly have more experience than anyone else in this hall or room. I would boldly classify them virtually all as duplicaters, or as intrigues of some kind of political intrigue, because there are no really great success stories. In fact, they have rather confirmed what they have been able to prove in much more detail in the official investigation or the National Audit Office. I'm not fond of anything. Yes, there have been conspiracy theories, but not good results. It's been so good to finally refer to yourself. If another scandal comes out of itself or its own party, it can be pointed out that you can see, among other things, the special committee or committee of inquiry was also examined and the result was actually acquitted. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U363	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U364	I'd point to the Snotlout now. Having itself been chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control at the time of the opposition, it is extremely insulting to me if the author claims that it has been dealt with only once by the Commission and has not voted on anything. This committee will not vote, there is such a practice. Moreover, the opposition was outnumbered, which is why we most likely did not have the opportunity to take any such critical decisions. The coalition would have blocked them. However, I must tell the Socialists, and personally to Mr West Forest, that I ask for control of how many times your party's representative was present, how many times he spoke and whether he even wanted to be there. In fact, the Special Committee discussed these COVID measures practically twice a month, once a month in any case, at peak level. The only person who refused to attend has been the Minister of Finance, but on another subject. Previous Minister of Finance. We've got all the people in place otherwise, we've got all the documents, so there's nothing else to say. On the other hand, nothing will prevent the Special Committee on Corruption from taking the lead in this matter. [[The connection's breaking up.]] Eduard Odines doesn't know that. But certainly knows this Lauri West Forest, who is also one...... Members of the Riigikogu. And even better known soccer. What did Katri Raik do? How much did he study? Did he do anything? I respect Katri Raig. If there are any gaps, these gaps can certainly be successfully filled in the Special Committee on Corruption. And all in all, I'm really offering to those people who speak hotly here, to form non-formal groups, support groups and deal with it without asking the state for pay. Which is still really...... how the state gets the costs and people get to own the bleacher, but... [[The connection's breaking up.]] The current special committees are what is denied there, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs, capable of discussing all these issues with sufficient depth. And they've actually been discussing. Do not harm them and save state resources... Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U365	Thank you. Eduard Odines, would you say the word? Your name was mentioned in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U366	Thank you. Yes, my name was mentioned several times during the negotiations. First of all, as chairman of a special committee, I would perhaps like to thank you for the trust that has repeatedly been heard here by representatives of coalition parties. I'm sure we can handle this. I believe in the Commission's composition and the secretariat's capacity to investigate this corruption, too, in relation to crisis measures. But at the same time, I see a number of problems here that I would like to clarify and clarify. First of all, however, the fact that both the author and myself personally, we know very well and have watched as the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption have repeatedly addressed and looked at these issues and kept a close eye on them during the autumn session. What was said by my colleague, Mr Westmets, concerned the spring session, where he examined and tried to understand whether these issues were still on the agenda. And like my colleague Liigi, we have great respect for Katri Raigi. It was a little unfair about us. Indeed, I can speak for the Special Committee on Corruption, so that we do not have a concrete plan to examine crisis measures with dates and with an action plan. We have mentioned in one of the minutes that this is an issue that deserves our attention and that we would like to pay attention to. However, I continue to recognise that we have different rights compared to the Committee of Inquiry. Finally, what I would like to mention is that I am very concerned about the plan of the coalition to change the composition of the Commission. As we have heard today, the coalition has no intention of calling this bill back. This means that we will have additional coalition members. But I would very much like to hope that they will not come from the board members of the Centre Party, because in such a situation it would be quite difficult to examine, for example, Porto Franco or other matters involving a single department of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U367	Thank you. The political groups have no more requests to speak, and that concludes the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 319 at first reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 319 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U368	53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 39 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. This is the seventh item on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U369	Let's keep going. The eighth item is the first reading of the draft Act 318 on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. I would like to ask Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U370	Hello! First of all, good manager, I'm gonna check if there's a connection in both the sound and the picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U371	There is both sound and picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U372	Thank you. Honorable Vice President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, former colleagues! I will introduce you to the amendment to the social security agreement between Estonia and Moldova. This is mainly due to the fact that the 2015 work capacity reform in Estonia changed some aspects. But before I come to the amendments to this agreement, I will give a more general picture. Today, Estonia has concluded social security agreements with six countries. These are Moldova, Russia, Canada, Ukraine, Australia and Belarus, and it is also a desire to open negotiations with the United States to protect the Estonian people. The first four [contracts] have been concluded before the capacity reform and social security risks such as old age, survivors and incapacity to work are covered. Such risks are traditional and generally also constitute a pension system in the countries. As a result of the employment capacity reform, a disability pension was abolished in Estonia, i.e. part of the payment that had been included in the pension system so far. Instead, the disability allowance is paid on a different basis and therefore the risk of incapacity for work is no longer covered in the newer agreements, such as those with Australia and Belarus. The second part of the agreements is about avoiding double taxation of social tax. These are agreements with Belarus, Ukraine, Australia and Canada. This is important for businesses when they post their employees to another country in the framework of the provision of the service. Work capacity reform is the reason why we opened negotiations with Moldova, and those negotiations were also concluded on 2 December last year. Today, I have a good opportunity to introduce you to the changes that have been agreed, and these substantive changes are not, in fact, much. First of all, disability pensions have been excluded from the scope. They are also the main drivers of change. What we continue to do is to transmit the health data of people living in Estonia to Moldova so that their disability pension can be determined in Moldova. This will help people not to lose the burden on themselves, but the state can still offer this social protection. With this change, we will be able to escape the risk of incapacity for work. We must also recognise that, within eight years of the agreement's validity, we have not yet actually implemented any risk of incapacity for work [compensation] towards Moldova. Now, to create a system so that, in the coming years, maybe the person who would need this compensation for the risk of incapacity for work would be an excessive cost to the state, insofar as it requires the unemployment fund to develop specific IT solutions for this purpose. This is the first and main amendment to be introduced into the Treaty with this draft. The second, equally important, change is the amendment of the provisions relating to the protection of personal data. In particular, there is alignment with the new standards of data protection in the European Union. The third amendment concerns Estonia less, but it is important for Moldova. The language of the Treaty has been transformed into Romanian instead of Moldovan. A little bit of influence, too. The change will help us complete the work capacity reform. I must say that the negotiations actually started in 2015 when we completed the work capacity reform ourselves on this side. It's just taken time. For other countries, we have not yet reached changes and agreements. Estonia will not be obliged to pay disability pensions in the future. Just for more information: the people affected by this whole social security agreement between Moldova and Estonia are currently eight. So this impact on the Estonian state is small in all respects, but it is certainly important for these eight people. I'm ready to answer your questions if there are any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U373	Thank you. Minister, there are no questions for you. Let's keep going. I would like to ask Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U374	Hello?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U375	Yeah, I hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U376	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U377	I can hear it and I can see it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U378	Thank you, very good! Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 15 February the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft Act 318 on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Moldova. The bill was presented by Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo, who gave you a very comprehensive overview here too, and therefore I will not repeat it again. Like the members of the Riigikogu, the members of the committee did not have any questions for the minister. The Commission supported the appointment of ten working days due to the law to table amendments. The following decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 17 March 2021 (all nine members of the Social Affairs Committee voted in consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (in the same way as the consensus decision), and the third decision was to appoint Siret Kotka (as well as the consensus) as the representative of the lead committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U379	Thank you. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U380	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have this question: how will people be counted in order to determine where this topic is important from the country and when it is not important? I am delighted when the problem of eight people can be solved. I'm sometimes trying to present some problems behind which there are 10,000 or 20,000 people, but they don't matter. Can You Explain? Obviously, I understand that I am on a completely wrong path, but what could be the key point, how could the Social Ministry, for example, be addressed by the problem of 27,000 people, so that it can be reflected positively and supported by the Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U381	Thank you, Tarmo Kruusimäe! I think that every person is very important to the Estonian state. How all these Estonian people are speaking to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Protection, this question you should certainly have asked the Minister. But to the Social Affairs Committee, all people living in the Republic of Estonia are equally very expensive and important, and I believe that the Ministry of Social Affairs and also the Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo alike.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U382	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 318. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 31 March at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U383	Today's ninth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Keit Pentus-Rosimannus of the Minister of Finance to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U384	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There is a draft before you concerning the amendment to enter into force on 1 July 2021 in the countries of the European Union, according to which, from 1 July of this year, the VAT exemption for consignments of up to EUR 22, parcels and all packages and consignments will have to be registered in the countries of the European Union from that date. We are talking about packages coming from third countries. At the moment, the regulation is such that a customs declaration must be lodged when the value of the consignment exceeds 22 euros, and this can only be done after the package has arrived in Estonia. In order to ensure that these small-value packages of less than EUR 22 can continue to be delivered quickly to the recipient, part of the content of the amendment is to allow the customs declaration to be lodged by means of an amendment to the Customs Act even before the arrival of the shipment. After the package has arrived, the declaration shall be accepted and the package may be received immediately. By lodging a customs declaration, taxes shall be calculated immediately on the declaration. This means that a person must, if he wishes to use this simplification, transfer the amount of tax directly to the advance payment account of the Tax and Customs Board. If he has made this entry, the customs declaration can be accepted as soon as the package or consignment has arrived. The tax will also be added to cover 7% of currency fluctuations, as the international logistics of small consignments, small packages, may take up to a month. In anticipation of the question of how this 7% was reached, [I would say immediately] the average rate of volatility over the period by which the major currency exchange rates fluctuated was calculated and from there it was 7%. The amount which does not need to be used to cover fluctuations shall either remain on the prepayment account or may be recovered by the person, as prescribed by the Tax Administration Act. The second amendment to this draft concerns cash controls. Again, in June of this year, the new EU Cash Control Regulation will be in place, and it will also regulate the cash declaration procedure, which is still laid down in the national legislation of the Member State itself. This amendment means that we will repeal the corresponding provisions of the Customs Act, as the European Union regulation will be in force. From now on, only the right to detention of cash by customs will be regulated in the Customs Act. If earlier this right was 48 hours, then now we set a maximum of three working days for detention. It may be good or important to know that, under the European Union Cash Control Regulation, it may actually be up to 30 days. Estonia is currently implementing and using three working days as proposed. I think that's all for an introduction. Thank you and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U385	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U386	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! That 7% sounds good, actually, but from practice, we know what's in the wolf's hand, the wolf's. That means you don't get much out of it. It's going to be equal to what it's going to be, given all the pros, it's going to be minus, and it's going to be 0 either way. Have you thought about it, too, that people who may not be the strongest in the calculation will have a legitimate expectation of getting it back to 7%? Perhaps people who are already in larger numbers, for trading purposes, ordering something for themselves, are already miscalculating the business plan. Have you also taken into account these so-called losses when someone goes bankrupt because they count on that 7%, but as we know from practice, that money does not get back from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U387	Thank you. Well, obviously, it's important to say that we're talking here about packages ordered by civilians. I can't comment from the business plan on how much he, as a private individual, ordering a package below EUR 22 is part of the business plan or not. Just the amount we're talking about at 7% is quite small. So we have calculated this 7% precisely so that there is no unpleasant surprise at the moment the package is present. Anything that does not automatically count due to changes in exchange rates can be left to the person to order the next package on the prepaid account or to apply for a refund. That is what has been said, and that is a legal opportunity and right for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U388	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U389	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. One part of the draft that you presented was the transposition of the European directive, this was the issue of handling cash. But the first part, this part of small packages, is it a pan-European change or is it Estonia's initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U390	Thanks to the questioner! I also started with this in my introduction: it will enter into force in all the countries of the European Union in the summer of 2021. This is not just about Estonia, but also about all the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U391	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U392	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm a little surprised, of course, that is not a private person allowed to do business in Estonia? Consider a simple example. We have a song and dance coming up, and [let's assume] every day all the song and dancers are ordering themselves a product that they may want to sell on a charity campaign, and of course someone smart will calculate in advance the 7% that [it is to be paid]. Or is it [the bill] regulating that one family or one family member may order one product per day, or in what way [it is limited]? I can see that larger organisations here can take advantage of the fact that they have a lot of members. In what ways is it limited if the goal is actually to promote a noble culture, such as song and dance? That's why they want to do this little knee-end business with tens of thousands of members.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U393	Thank you. No, this draft does not limit in any way how many packages could be ordered from third countries rather than from European Union countries. This bill concerns ordering small packages of up to EUR 22. And, as has been said, since 1 July 2021, the regulation that all small packages ordered from third countries are subject to VAT will be the same in all countries of the European Union. Indeed, no law or regulation restricts how many packages anyone can order. Still the way it is, the need and the interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U394	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Now I ask Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U395	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, this is and this side of the screens. On 11 January, a draft amendment to the Customs Act 311 was initiated. On 12 January the draft was submitted to the procedure and the Committee on Economic Affairs was designated as the committee responsible. At its meeting on 9 February, the Commission decided to appoint a rapporteur here, and this decision was adopted in a consensual manner: Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Kalvi Tika, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester, Mikhail Stalnukhin and the signatory, all in favour. As the Minister has already presented the draft, I think that I will not go back to introducing it, but I will go straight to the questions asked by the Commission. Since the amendment concerns, in particular, private individuals who order, and private individuals can also order packages with a value of more than EUR 150, I asked whether shipments with a value of more than EUR 150 could also be declared by way of a pre-declaration. The Minister replied that there would be no amendment to the draft declaration for consignments with a value of at least EUR 150. This means that they can still be declared once the shipment has arrived and so far the consignment is in intermediate storage. Sven Sester asked whether market participants had received opinions during the draft procedure. The Minister replied that no comments were made by market participants and stated that this could be linked to the fact that the draft law was initiated to bring customs legislation into line with European Union law. Indeed, these are the four regulations and directives concerning customs law, handling cash and also the VAT law that we have recently brought into line here and adopted on 10 February. The speaker mentioned that it is likely that e-commerce companies, as well as other trading companies, welcome this bill, because all over the European Union e-commerce companies have been at a loss for market distortion and anti-competitive practices, because VAT was not paid on low-cost shipments and this gives a 20% price advantage in Estonia. This is a huge advantage in retail trade. In the meantime, the Commission has sent a letter to business organisations to draw their attention to the draft we are talking about. As far as I know, the Estonian E-Commerce Association prepares a letter with its own opinion to the Economic Commission. Sven Sester asked to clarify whether the obligation to declare cash to or from Estonia worth more than EUR 10000 remains valid, goes into other laws or is abolished. Minister Pentus-Rosimannus replied that the obligation to declare cash does not disappear, but that procedures, including declaration forms, are being harmonised across Europe. The Head of the Commission's Secretariat, Kaido Rosin, also asked whether the 7% reserve for currency fluctuations was not a bit cumbersome, whether the necessary changes to the IT system would be completed in time and whether this draft still needed a majority of the membership, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. Marek Uusküla, who was accompanied by the Minister, believed that the limit on the cost of the shipment (up to EUR 150) would not have to be paid to the prepayment account by 7% of this EUR 150, but by 20%, i.e. the tax declared. The maximum interest rate fluctuation coverage of 7% can be 2 euros and 10 cents. So 2 euros and 10 cents is actually the answer to Mr Kruusimäe's question. If the rate is favourable, the money shall remain on the declarant's prepayment account. I don't think we have any experience so that we can't transfer money back from an advance account to a current account if we had made this request to the tax office. Marek Uusküla also stated that the Tax and Customs Board has confirmed that changes to the IT system will be completed in time. Later, by letter, the Ministry of Finance stated that a majority of the votes cast would be sufficient for the adoption of the draft. Finally, the Commission adopted procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today, 17 March, and secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed. Both decisions were taken by consensus. The meeting was attended by Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester, Mikhail Stalnukhin and the speaker here. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U396	Thank you. You have questions too. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U397	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have to tell you, I've probably accidentally touched that remote button, so I don't really have a question. I'm so sorry for my mistake!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U398	Thank you. It's okay!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U399	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U400	Kalle Grünthal, second question, please! By accident? Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 311 and to set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 31 March at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U401	We will go to today's last item on the agenda, which is the first reading of draft law amending the Audit Act and the Accounting Act 313 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Keit Pentus-Rosimannus of the Minister of Finance to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U402	The initiation of the draft act relates to two infringement proceedings initiated by the European Union concerning the transposition of the Accounting Directive into Estonian law. Estonia has already transposed the Accounting Directive in 2016, but according to the European Commission's rather recent assessment, the Commission still sees shortcomings in the transposition of some articles. This bill, which is in front of you, will be corrected accordingly. This draft amends the Audit Activities Act and the Accounting Act. First of all, in the current audit activity law, the auditor is required to verify the compliance of the information disclosed in the annual accounts with the financial statements and its publication in accordance with the publication requirements laid down in the law. The regulation currently in force is that if an audit firm does not detect any errors, it will not be obliged to make any separate statement in the audit report. The amendment provides that, in the future, the audit firm must publish in the report of the statutory auditor, firstly, whether the annual activity report is in line with the annual accounts and with the requirements of the law, and secondly, whether the statutory auditor has identified material misrepresentations in the annual report. However, in both cases, even if they are not present, this must be included in the report. This requirement applies to the audits of medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises and to the audits of medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises from public-interest entities. The second part of the changes is about the Accounting Act. According to the current Accounting Act, a large company with more than 500 employees must describe its business model, the environmental and social impacts of its activities, human resources management, human rights and the fight against corruption, and risk management in all these areas, as well as the policies to be implemented and the results thereof, highlighting important non-monetary performance indicators. This draft, which is before you, adds some additional requirements to the above list. First, reporting must be to the extent that it allows for an overview of the company's development, results, status and impact. Secondly, it shall include, where appropriate, additional explanations or references to the information recorded in the annual accounts. Thirdly, there must be a description of the main risks, including business relationships, of the goods and services offered, the nature or extent of which is likely to lead to negative effects. Where an undertaking applies a standard of due diligence in its activities, the activity report shall refer to that standard and describe how it is to be performed. As has been said, all these amendments relate to the transposition of the Directive and result from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U403	Thank you. Minister, there are no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U404	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U405	I ask Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U406	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to report a draft law amending the Audit Activities Act and the Accounting Act, as initiated by the Government of the Republic, 313, which was discussed by the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu on 9 March this year at its committee meeting. The Minister just introduced the contents of the draft. The Commission's discussions also raised some questions. First, the date of entry into force of this draft was specified. The bill states March 1, but it's over. It now clarifies with the amendment between first and second reading. It was then asked whether it was constitutional that ex post data were required to be made [public]. But the auditors do this in the annual report and the data are simply taken from behind, so there is actually no significant retroactive effect here. There was still an interest in whether this change could lead to much bureaucracy for businesses. It doesn't significantly increase that. However, it was pointed out that the Board of Auditors has been quite concerned about this change, following the comments they have made on the draft. It should be noted that some of these comments have been taken into account. Their interest is precisely whether there is much more work to be done here, and the desire would be to limit as much as possible the provision that determines what they must specifically check. But we cannot narrow it down, because then it would run counter to the requirements of the directive to be introduced and would bring about an infringement procedure again. By doing so, the questions had been exhausted and it was decided in the Commission to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, by 17 March, and to propose that the first reading be closed. Both decisions were taken by consensus. Somewhere in the earlier protocol, my assignment to this remote control is to report all of this. If I remember correctly, I think it was a consensual decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-17_U407	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 313 be completed. I shall set the deadline of 31 March at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. I thank everyone! Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed.
