ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. Evgeny Ossinovski, do you have a procedural question before the hearing is held?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U2	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Since ten hours have passed since the end of the previous sitting, the Bureau has certainly discussed, in the meantime, how to resolve this concern regarding the restriction of the procedural rights of the social democrats with regard to draft 355. Have you considered again in the Bureau that [Rule 107 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu] could interrupt the second reading of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U3	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. We will proceed with the implementation of the sitting, and there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. I don't see a request for preliminary rulings and enquiries. Before we go to the presence check, Mr Grünthal, I cannot give you the floor because we still have procedural questions from yesterday in the Polish forest and Mr Ernitsal upstairs, and if we have them unsolved, we cannot go to the others. But now the presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U4	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U5	Let us begin by clarifying the agenda first. Indeed, yesterday, we were in the middle of the second reading of the draft law 355 on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws during the negotiation phase. I would like to remind you that those who missed the floor yesterday are Riho Breivel, Rene Chef and Andres Metsoja, who are now well registered for speeches. So first Riho Breivel, your call, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U6	[[Remote connection]] Any word?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U7	Yeah, I'm fine. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U8	[[Remote connection]] Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U9	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U10	[[Remote connection]] Yesterday we were in the middle of a debate on the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services 355. A rather awkward moment has been reached on this issue, because this issue has been discussed for a very long time, half yesterday. A lot of questions were asked to the Commission representative, and when we look at what were the answers, we see that there were very many answers, that it was not discussed, although when we look at the questions asked, they were generally substantive. There were not many questions that would have been asked simply for the sake of stagnation. That is why I also wanted to take the floor, so that we have to look very closely at how we deal with such important issues. The law amending the Health Services Act is, in fact, very necessary and deemed necessary by both opposition and coalition speakers. The rejection of the constructive proposals of the opposition is extremely deplorable. I would like to give an example of the Socialist proposal concerning compensation for the first day of [sick days]. I liked Mr Odines's speech, who long and wide explained the matter, and as an Eastern virumaan, I am very pleased that he has paid particular attention to this particular issue concerning our area. We're talking about having a virus in East Viru County pretty tight. But what's it about? It is precisely because our industry and the people who work in industry cannot simply go to teleworking there. It's physical contact production. It means that if a person has to stay out of work, he loses his salary. What does it do? This is because, after all, those people who are in a worse position will also be defiant against all the decisions we have taken and the decisions that will be taken. From here we can also see that people are going to come out on the street and start doing street politics, and then we are going to bring in our power structures and this is going to make it even bigger. Is all this necessary and do we really want to get exactly the same situation as in the major countries of Europe? Our Police and Border Guard Board, which is now very strongly trusted by the people, can eventually lose popularity, lose confidence and also lose confidence in the state. Where do you think we're going? This is how we really get to where we don't want to get to the police state. We still want our power structures to be appreciated among the people, and that is why we are adopting laws and amendments in such a way that they give our people strength, will and opportunity to do their work intelligently, well and without restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U11	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U12	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U13	We hear nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U14	[[Remote connection]] Recently, we have a lot of talk about evil and evil forces. The participants in the earlier demonstration and the people who express their concerns are called Kremlin henchmen, albeit flat countrymen, Nachnoi Dazor henchmen, etc. We just keep tagging and ridiculing. If this doesn't work, we'll bring out the representatives of the power structures to scare people with it. At this point, I have no reproach for those policemen who have been sent to the street on the orders of their superiors, but this is not good practice in any way. Somehow it comes to mind that you should walk according to what I said, not what I did. There is a suggestion for good coalition members here: take this bill back, we will process it nicely in accordance with good lawmaking practice and we should use the principle "nine times, cut once" more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U15	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U16	[[Remote connection]] Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! There's a saying that alone can be faster, but together goes further. This crisis, this pandemic, has put us all kind of tired, both in this Chamber and in the people outside this house, throughout Estonia and also globally, more broadly. Looking at this whole procedure, it is indeed important to point out precisely that this crisis can come out together. But one important nuance is that a strategic plan, how we move, what kind of drafts we process, what the final solutions would be, should be understandable for everyone, at least 101 [of the Riigikogu] members, then it can be communicated outside. Last week there was a book presentation right here in the hall. Once again, we did not start talking about content, but said that now this book is in front of you, read and then we will discuss it together later. We have two similar drafts in the process. One concerns personal data, a new kind of database in the context of communicable diseases, and the other concerns its management and certain mitigation measures. This week, the waste mathematics presented by the Committee on the Environment has also been in the hall, and Estonia has been running in the same way as the mother of waste over time. However, when we speak in the Commission, we are talking about transposing European directives, we are also talking about a follow-up plan. We are talking about how we want to take the next steps in Estonia, and we are discussing this common plan with both the opposition and the coalition. To be honest, it is very surprising to hear that, in the Committee on Social Affairs, this dignified moment is not actually found to be discussed jointly through this strategy, that if we say A today, when we say B. Because believe me, this consistency can still be achieved through the work of the political groups to the various political parties, the various Members of Parliament, in order to behave with dignity in this Chamber. It seems to me that the result of today's procedure is a fine-tuning of fine-tuning, where the draft procedure has a strategic objective, where we should end up, i.e. it is not. Probably not in the coalition either. If this picture is not available, the opposition will find it even more difficult to understand and there will probably also be such a gang spirit to put both legs behind both legs, which means that in the end we are all on our hands. Sadly, it is precisely in the context of this defeat of the virus that we may be communicating outside again in a failed way. Here is the point of thinking that let us not do this: if one or more political forces have tabled an amendment on how to do things better or at least discuss how to do things better, then we will kill the idea in the conception phase. Let us not do this because the people of Estonia are worth more and, without a doubt, the parliament is worth more. I, too, believe that at this point, unfortunately, we must go back to the starting point and break the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U17	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U18	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say some of the points that concern the truth of this draft, rather indirectly. And three more minutes, just in case. I don't like wasting time and I still like this piece of Parliamental work. This inconsistency is only acceptable in exceptional cases, when protesting against something that is actually even less acceptable. In this case, there is a protest against what threatens parliamentaryism and democracy. I repeat yesterday's statement by the Chairman of our Group. Our obstacles to work are directed at anti-constitutional policies by the government, which restrict our civil and political rights. This government policy is expressed in attempts to restrict freedom of expression and other civil liberties. We also protest against a disproportionate demonstration of force by which the government tries to intimidate peaceful demonstrators who exercise their constitutional rights. As long as the government has not proved that it wishes to follow the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia, the faction of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia sees no other option than obstruction in Parliament. But I'll tell you a little bit more. You know, democracy is a method of governance in which the main political decisions are taken by citizens either through elected representatives or through referendums. This latter method, or referendums, also builds a sense of community among citizens, where citizens themselves are responsible for their decision and their country. It's like in a family that cares about each other, the choices are discussed, and then it's decided together. Of course, there are differences of opinion, and sometimes some, sometimes other family members, remain in the minority, but those who remain in the minority understand the primacy of the interests of this family as a whole. Together, decision-making strengthens accountability and a common identity and I now highlight and control the decisions of the House. Let's go. As far as we are concerned, the conclusion that we are elected representatives of the people with a very large campaign noise is still to be drawn more and more, but, in fact, we have gradually become Statists in a large machine with the European Union and our own administration being the main influences or whirlpools. In many ways they have grown together, I mean the European Union and our own administration. And we, i.e. the decision-making power of the Members, are rather the thin-cut difference between the two. By the way, that's what citizens have figured out. Our so-called constructive discussions are also being followed very little. We may well imagine that we are very cared for, but in fact, only 1,000 to 2,000 eye pairs look at our activities here in the middle with a follow-up. For example, some of Mart Helme's video recordings are viewed by 60000. Speaking of which, we are not dealing with substantive issues. We have spent a tiny amount of time on fundamental problems that threaten our civilisation, for example, that our birth rate in Estonia is 10 to 20% below the recovery rate and that the population of European origin is even lower in the middle and there is no doubt that if it continues, the population of European origin will fade. Not only does more and more research prove, and more and more reliably, that this is not only about the physical decline of our civilization, but also about the spiritual decline. The increase in IQ levels previously observed, about 3 IQ points every ten years, has now turned and probably since the generation that was born in the mid-1970s. One recent study shows that since then the average IQ has decreased by 7 points per generation. I am reminding here of the Parliament of the two times of democracy between world wars. I do not want to idealise it in any way, because there were also foolish and foolish Members of Parliament at the time, and yes, but there was a really substantive brainstorm in Parliament compared to today. It was a real thought fireworks thing. And, as has been said, it was not that the MEPs at the time were necessarily wiser, but that their decisions had a substantial weight, unlike ours. Yes, compared to the present Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Members of their own time had far more scope for substantive discussion. A member of the Riigikogu could get an unlimited number of times, the first time was unlimited, the next time up to 15 minutes. The only restriction was the requirement to speak on this draft. Well, let's ask, what do we do? Of course there are no wonders. But it seems to me that the most important and most effective thing could still be to change the constitution so that citizens can initiate binding referendums. It also calls on Parliament, perhaps, to order, because then there would be no point in putting forward anti-democratic drafts that we are now protesting against with the EKRE, because they would immediately be nullified in referendums anyway. There would also be no point in street politics, which makes our people quarrel with each other, because our citizens would have a constructive output. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U19	Mr Odines will now have the floor to speak in response, because Mr Breivel mentioned him. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U20	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, one of the previous speakers mentioned my name and I would like to clarify [that]. I really talked yesterday about mining workers who are unable to stay on teleworking and who cannot stay at home to avoid contact with sick people or close contacts, who do not yet know that they are [sick or close contact]. That is why it is a great resentment, and that is why the Socialist proposal that the coalition is currently crossing with a roller coaster is coming from. It's about the first day of sickness and 100% support. I do not agree with what my speech associated with my colleague, Mr Breivel, with the police state and with what is happening on the streets of Tallinn. Of course, all things can be connected, but I didn't make that kind of connection in my speech yesterday. The Social Democrats are deeply concerned about how our country is coping with this crisis, and we are confident that one of the measures to overcome the crisis is to provide people with additional support when they stay sick because more than 30% of their income is to lose almost 40% of their income, which is very important [sum] in the conditions of Ida-Virumaa, where very often there is only one person in the family who brings home money once a month. This is a very, very big and severe blow for families and families to cope with this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U21	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please! Please, three more minutes, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Regrettably, we need to talk more about the rules of procedure and the procedure box than about the content of this law in the case of the amendment of the law on the organisation of health services and the related draft law on the amendment of other laws. This is unfortunately the result of the coalition's behaviour on what took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. It was not an intellectually very demanding activity, which the coalition did there, but it was simply a very nasty violation of the meaning of the Constitution and of the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures through a yokk scheme. Also, the previous coalition, by the way, discussed this possibility for several drafts, but we found that we did not use it once, does not do so in the committee to move one amendment to [the second draft] as a proposal from the Commission after the expiry of the deadline for the submission of amendments and to leave all other amendments, including amendments to the opposition, in the main draft and perhaps to leave it on the shelf at all and thus to take the opportunity of the opposition to realise its constitutional mandate, to take the opportunity to defend its amendments and vote here in the Riigikogu. To this level, the esteemed Reform Party and the Centre Party, the EKRE did not descend in the previous coalition, but we are now a verifier of this fact. That is why speeches are made. However, it seems that the aim of restricting the freedom of expression of the current government is wider and has not only been limited to restricting freedom of expression through the drafting of the hate speech law, but through similar activities in this Chamber, where Members are deprived of the freedom to speak and to deal with proposals. We have now listened to speeches here for several days and have also received an overview of the eloquence and ability of the members of the Riigikogu. Who has quoted the classics who have presented their creations. I think Ossinovsky quoted Churchill here yesterday. I recall that Churchill has also expressed an opinion on speeches, and it was something that he thought was a good speech, like a woman's skirt, short enough to attract interest, but long enough to cover the subject. So I also call for speeches based on this good spirit to be a good speech by definition. Jaak Valge recalled the work of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia before the war, that the discussions were more meaningful and more meaningful. Maybe. Maybe it was. If Parliament has greater influence and decision-making powers, of course the meaning of speeches and decisions is greater. But I would remind you that the record of speech in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia belongs to a man in Mulgimaa, Märt Martinson, since 1929. That call lasted over 11 hours. So just a few minutes less than Martin Klein's famous wrestling match, with which he brought Estonia the first Olympic medal. Later, the Rules of Procedure were amended and so long speeches could no longer be made. The current rules are also such that we cannot make such long speeches, but hopefully these speeches will still be meaningful. We try to use the individual strengths of each member of the Riigikogu in this hall. For example, Mr Grünthal's strength is certainly procedural questions. So let's make the most of this potential. Now the obstruction as such. We saw what happened during yesterday's day when the Social Democrats and the EKRE broke their backs together and decided to implement the obstruction together. See, that's also possible. But it's all a piece of cake when the Fatherland starts implementing the obstruction. Our experience is huge, and I can tell the coalition that if you use such blunt techniques as in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have plenty of room and opportunities to play with the Rules of Procedure. Do not expect the amendments to the Rules of Procedure to be able to drive over the opposition. The Rules of Procedure contain inexhaustible possibilities. In addition to this simple pranking, i.e. taking breaks, Parliament's work can still be made very difficult through the obituary, whether it be the work started from the committees, the thorough discussion of each amendment, the presentation of hundreds of amendments, the voting in all committees, the resignations of the vice-chairmen of the committees and the re-elections for which we must gather. It is not any difficulty for each opposition group to submit ten inquiries to the minister every day, for example, which they answer here every week on Monday and Tuesday, or to table amendments for all the drafts that are presented here, or to hold speeches at second reading of the budget, which are allowed for all members of the Riigikogu, in addition to taking tens of breaks, etc. If there is any expectation or idea that we will change all this in the Rules of Procedure and take all these weapons away from the opposition, then [it has been said that] it will probably not be done. This will make Parliament even at all. So the only way is to process rationally and seek consensus on certain issues in the Riigikogu. Or give the opposition at least the opportunity to realise, present and process its amendments to its constitutional mandate. The opposition will also accept the behaviour of the majority in Parliament. But what happened to this draft we are debating in the Committee on Social Affairs is a disgrace. I hope it doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U23	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U24	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to reserve myself three extra minutes just in case, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U25	It's possible. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U26	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Indeed, the seventh or eighth hour that we are currently spending in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu on discussing this bill is not to be spent. But, unfortunately, we have been violently put into this situation by the decisions made by the coalition in the Committee on Social Affairs. The opposition withdrew the opportunity to vote on its substantive amendment on the sick days. The Social Democrats have not denied and have also submitted several drafts since September to show that we attach great importance to the fair compensation of sick days to alleviate the health crisis and to control the spread of infection, so that they are compensated for on the first day and that people have minimal material motivation to go to work sick or in close contact. We have also realised that in some strange way, although we have not received any substantive reasoning, the current government coalition does not want to introduce this change. Although we don't understand it in essence, formally it's... [[The connection's breaking up.]] I understand that the government union, when they have votes together, has the opportunity to vote down our amendment. However, the fact that we have been deprived of the opportunity by means of a parliamentary act to hold this debate at all on this amendment, a discussion that ends with a clear vote, in which all members of the Riigikogu can clearly demonstrate what they think of this amendment and this approach, has unfortunately taken the opportunity of doing our work in the opposition. Whatever the outcome of the vote, it would also be important for future discussions. Returning to the nature and content of this matter, the situation centre, which sends its reports to the members of the Riigikogu, yesterday's report showed [as usual] that more than 70% of the disease scenes are now workplace sites. In this context, there is no question of whether it is important to establish a system that is fair enough and sufficiently motivating to allow all people to stay at home if their corona test is positive or they have a suspicion of corona and they are in close contact. So these so-called quarantine sheets should be reimbursed 100% to everyone, and this should, of course, be done from the state budget. That's what this common wallet is for to use it as rationally as possible in a crisis situation. We also recently commissioned a survey with a representative sample, which showed that in the last year at least one in four people noticed that someone from his colleagues came to work sick. 84% of those who responded to the survey said that they believed that a generous reimbursement of sick days would reduce the number of people coming to work sick. Yet it does not convince the government. Then why don't you take a look around? Our neighbours Finland and Latvia, as well as the next neighbours, Sweden and Lithuania, all compensate for sick days from day one. Why are we swimming against the river? Unfortunately, there has been no response from the government association to this either. We tried to get substantive answers from Mr Luck Pillak, the Commission's waitress on the draft law, in vain yesterday. He admitted that there had been substantive discussions in the Commission on this subject, but the answer, which is the main arguments why we could not take compensation for the first day, was unfortunately not. However, he quoted Peep Peterson, the chairman of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation's Confederation, who referred to the agreement between the social partners at a meeting of the committee, and apparently it was about finding these funds from the budget of the unemployment fund. This position needs to be corrected because the Chairman of the EAKL, Peep Peterson, has been accompanied on 29 March by a structural body called the EVEA, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, sent a letter to the Financial and Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, as well as to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, which concludes by saying: "We will be able to eradicate the epidemic as soon as entrepreneurs, employees and the state act together. [[The connection's breaking up.]] Therefore, the signatories ask the State to find a way to cover, as a crisis measure, the cost of reimbursement of quarantine leaves from the first day of the budget and to ensure that the corresponding amendment to the law enters into force as soon as possible. " So, this too has now been corrected. Finally, the money. What's all this? You can always say there's no money. It would be calculated that until the end of this year, 100% of the first day of sickness benefit would be paid to corona positive and close contacts, so that these first days would be covered by the state budget and this cost would not be pushed onto employers' shoulders, a little over EUR 8 million. When we read the latest news about the Estonian National Broadcasting, different calculations show that the cost of the corona restrictions to Estonia every day is 7 to 19 million. So one day will cost at least as much as it will pay for all the sick days until the end of the year according to the scheme we have offered. In this context too, the conduct of the government union is completely irrational and irrational. I therefore ask you all to vote in favour of interrupting the second reading of this bill in order to introduce the necessary amendment so that we can vote on it and return to the procedure of this bill as soon as possible. I assure you that the Social Democrats are always prepared to find time for additional sessions if this is needed and the time frame puts such pressure on us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U27	I'm closing the negotiations. Before we go to the proposals that have been tabled, we need to examine the amendments. The amendments to this draft are one that has been tabled by the lead committee and the Committee on Social Affairs as the lead committee has proposed that it be fully taken into account. Is Peter Ernitsa a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U28	[[Remote connection]] Yes, Mr President. You mentioned earlier that there were procedural questions about the evening, but I saw that they had been forgotten. At the time, I had another procedural question, but right now I am pointing out to colleagues that metal fences and riot police and dogs that have surrounded us from this morning to Toompea Castle will not protect us. You can take it one way or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U29	It was not a procedural [question], and I pointed out right at the beginning of the hearing that we had [the yesterday] these [procedural questions] up, but for that we really should have pressed the button to activate the microphone. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U30	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. I do not know if I hastened a bit, but since we are now going to the amendments, this amendment, which is contained in this draft, I would ask for a vote and I would also take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U31	Got it. Ten minutes break. Honourable Riigikogu! Let me remind you that we are discussing draft 355. Examination of amendments. Amendment 1 is currently underway and we need to vote it through. The Steering Committee has proposed that this be fully taken into account. I shall put to the vote before you Amendment 1. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U32	Amendment was supported by 65 members of the Riigikogu, 27 against, 2 abstentions. The amendment was supported. The commission has proposed to stop the second reading, but two more proposals have come to the Board of the Riigikogu. The Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia have both proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act on the Organisation of Health Services and the related amendment of other laws, and we need to vote it through. Mrs. Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U33	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office, for giving the floor. I'd like to take a ten-minute break here before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U34	Got it. Ten minutes break. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to vote before you on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Social Democratic Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services and the related amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U35	The proposal was supported by 40 members of the Riigikogu; 56 members of the Riigikogu were opposed. The proposal was not supported. That concludes Bill 355 at second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U36	We will proceed with today's second item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, for a chair as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Finance Committee prepared a draft law amending the State Budget Act for the second reading of 356, including on 8 April. To remind you of the content of the draft law amending the State Budget Act, amendments are made to the implementation of the State Supplementary Budget Act 2021. First, the possibility of concluding an administrative contract related to the implementation of the national support programme is extended to foundations established by the Ministry through resources in the field of government. Secondly, the law complements the law with the introduction of general conditions for support programmes to mitigate the spread of the virus under the new section COVID-19. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 7 April at 5.15 p.m., the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees of the Riigikogu tabled no amendments to the draft. The Finance Committee supplemented the draft with a provision allowing the law to enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal, i.e. in the same rhythm as the additional budget for 2021. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to close the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading and final vote on Wednesday 14 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U38	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. That's two. Kalle Grünthal will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This draft refers to the crisis mitigation in connection with the spread of the COVID-19 virus. I am currently in possession of the judgment of the Administrative Court of Vienna of 24 March, which states that, in the case of the PCR test under which all these restrictions are imposed, restrictions imposed on the basis of those [tests] without clinical signs are not justified because they do not correspond to scientific grounds. By the way, a similar decision has been reached by the Belgian Administrative Court. The Danish Ministry of Health has drawn similar conclusions. Question: If the same fact is now confirmed in Estonia, are these measures needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U40	Thank you. This issue was not discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U41	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U42	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If we now recall that there were a wide range of questions about the ethical side of the procedure of this draft and the good practice of the Riigikogu and, more generally, the functioning of the Riigikogu and the dynamics between the coalition and the opposition, did any such questions arise on the committee in connection with this draft and could you describe what the opinions and views of the Riigikogu ambassadors were on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U43	Thank you. There was a consensus on this draft before the second reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and no such questions arose.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U44	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U45	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a very simple question. As the procedure is going so far and fast, please give at least a few statements justifying a hurricane which specifically reduces COVID's... [[We're breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U46	Mr Helme, you have disappeared, but I believe that the rapporteur understood the content of the question in order to give a brief overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U47	Yeah, thanks! I understood that the question is why this law is being processed a little faster than there is good practice in the Riigikogu. The reason is that this draft is directly linked to the allocation of resources from the additional budget for 2021, i.e. the implementation of all the EUR 641 million that we may be able to discuss tomorrow. If this law has not been passed, no cents of this additional budget can be used. These funds are needed and awaited by all businesses, all people, as these measures have been developed within the framework of the additional budget. In this respect, it is extremely important that we adopt this law before the additional budget this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U48	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U49	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. The pre-questioner, Mart Helme, snatched my question, but very good, I have a chance to expand it a little bit. With the adoption of this additional budget, and with this speed, it is also justified that other drafts have been treated and rushed in breach of such good practice and procedural rules of the Riigikogu, as well as that these other and third readings have all been put into one week. Please describe what would be bad or bad if the Riigikogu had followed this normal procedure and schedule, and these third readings would be in fact next week. Everything would be okay and okay, and everything would have gotten processed in time. What would have been crazy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U50	Thank you. Well, I believe that every day it is extremely important for people and businesses, and every day, which the Riigikogu delays the adoption of an additional budget, reduces the resilience of our people in a crisis situation and the pace at which the economy can recover after the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U51	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U52	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr President. We read in the explanatory memorandum that the first reading of the draft took place on 5 April; the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft on 8 April; the deadline for amendments was 7 April; there was a difference of one or two days everywhere. Do I understand [right] that the Centre Party's plan is to continue to support an approach whereby laws are dealt with one or two days apart, and this is all so normal that it should become our custom?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U53	Thank you. In normal circumstances, the Centre Party has always supported compliance with good practice in dealing with laws, but sometimes a different approach is needed in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U54	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have referred twice today to the fact that you are ignoring established practices and practices relating to the handling of drafts. It is clear that there are codified legal sources: Constitution, law, regulation, organisation, decision, internal rules, etc. But besides these, there are un codified sources of law, which are implemented in exactly the same way as codified sources of law. Uncoded sources of law include practices and customs. They are essentially legal sources of the same category [such as codified sources of law]. Since you said that you are currently derogating from these practices, I ask: what are the criteria for which you consider that there may be a deviation from the legal sources?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U56	Thank you. I clearly believe that, if we are dealing with a crisis situation, it should be resolved as quickly as possible, and this has also resulted in faster than usual handling of this draft and additional budgets and other supplementary budgets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U57	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U58	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam, the author of the draft. We just finished one overfoot and... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U59	Mr. Helme, could you speak closer to the microphone or use the valves?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U60	[[Remote connection]] ... well it was pushed through by the coalition's votes, the second reading was completed. Your party partner, Minister of Labour and Health, Tanel Kiik, has said that we will be living under successive pandemics. Does this mean that we will be constantly on the streets of the police and that we will be dealing with the law in times of crisis, as you say, overfoot, all the time in haste, by twisting the rules of procedure, by binding it together into a cluster of claims, and so on? We don't mind the content of this particular draft, but like...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U61	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U62	[[Remote connection]] ... you have understood that opposition members have taken a very clear view that this cannot become a rule. Now, what do you say to the coalition, if it turns into a rule, or if it doesn't become a rule?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U63	Thank you. I am convinced that the scenario you described will not work. At least today's ruling government stands for this not to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U64	Thank you. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U65	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good waitress! Can you please explain what are the drafts and laws that need to be dealt with in a crisis situation in a hurry, bypassing good practices, and which laws should not do so, because the barrage of good practice would be too great?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U66	Thank you. I am of the opinion that there is an urgent need to deal with these drafts, which really are urgent, in which case every day that has been delayed will be viciously avenged for the health and livelihood of our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U67	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U68	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, We're all together in a health crisis, not every single one. It's not a coalition, it's not an opposition, it's not even a government, it's just spreading between people. A lot of the expression that we're looking for solutions together, we're fighting the virus together. Well, the first deadline for proposals was also the opposition's proposals, which have not actually been taken into account. None. Do you think this is good practice when you said that in certain moments, quick decisions have to be made? Very agreeable, indeed, must be done to overcome the virus at this rate, but is it true that none of the proposals made by the opposition representatives deserved [to be taken into account]? To count a few things?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U69	Thank you. No group tabled amendments to the draft 356.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U70	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U71	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. I was now observant of the fact that a good colleague, Mr Kütt, said that amendments had been tabled and Erkit's statement that no amendments had been tabled. Where's the truth now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U72	Thank you. The truth is that the members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not submit amendments to the draft 356 by the deadline for submitting amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U73	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U74	[[Remote connection]] Good manager and waitress! I've got our rules of procedure and our rules of procedure in front of me. On 9 February 2012, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu adopted these good practices ten years ago, and there is point 10 that the same working week [second and third readings of the draft] will not be planned. The introduction states that such deviations from recommended procedural practices should remain justified exceptions. My question to you is that I ask you to provide me or us with an overview of how many exceptions there have been for nearly ten years and what drafts it concerned. You can look at how much they were justified. So please, I look forward to this review from 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U75	Thank you. I'm not a competent person to answer that question. Honourable members of the Riigikogu will certainly have the opportunity to ask the relevant question to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and I believe they will find all the necessary information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U76	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U77	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have been approached by a lot of musicians and actors, and they all have the same concern that if they have created a private limited company, they will not qualify for any measure because all the money they have received has gone into taxes. They have not been able to pay their wages, and now they are in front of the so-called broken trough. Is the state budget intended to do something about this? I understand that this was not discussed in the committee, but you are at least the person who will give us answers that can be understood and passed on to your constituents. Thank you very much in advance, if you answer basically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U78	Thank you. On the details of the budget, I believe we can discuss tomorrow's session.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U79	Mr. Chairman of the Commission, there are no further questions for you. Before we go any further, let's settle Mart Helme's procedural question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U80	[[Remote connection]] President-in-Office of the Council. Can the chairman of the committee presenting the draft really put a question to him at the back of the office?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U81	Thank you for that question. That was the reply of the chairman of the committee. You were very badly heard, but I did register this speech. So that was the answer of the chairman of the committee, but I think he replied, as he knew, that this information could be obtained from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Thank you. That concludes our questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. We have received an amendment from the lead committee. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U82	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I probably didn't react as soon as I should have. I would like to propose, on behalf of our group, that the [second] reading of this draft be discontinued at this time. The reason is not substantive, but the reason is still this process, because we can see that, along with the bad COVID-19 virus, the virus is spreading here in the Riigikogu as well. I therefore propose that [second reading] be interrupted and we will see what happens with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U83	Okay, I got it. Consequently, we also need to vote through this proposal. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the proposal for a cut-off, we did not stop by the fact that Amendment 1 of the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U84	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would ask that this amendment be voted on and take a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U85	Got it. Ten minutes break. Dear Riigikogu, I shall put to the vote before you a draft amendment 356 tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U86	Dear members of the Riigikogu, we have received a signal from a member of the Riigikogu that he was unable to vote at the moment, but he was able to send his vote to the messenger within the time given for the vote. Now we need one person from each group to check it out. Mr. Odines? Anyone at the EKRE? Can we please, Mr. Lotman? Can we ask you for a moment so that you can check one vote that reached us electronically during the vote? Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal was supported by 76 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed it, with one abstention. The proposal was supported. We now also need to vote through the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 356 [second reading]. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U87	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would also ask before this vote... [[We're breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U88	You disappeared. Could you repeat, please, if you wanted ten minutes or less break?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U89	[[Remote connection]] Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U90	Yeah, here we go.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U91	[[Remote connection]] I wanted a ten-minute break, as foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U92	Got it. Break. We'll continue at 11:45. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to vote before you on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act 356. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U93	The proposal was supported by 16 [Citizens], 62 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. With this, we have completed the second reading of Bill 356.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U94	We will move on to the third item on our agenda today, which is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, Eduard Odinets, Lauri Läänemets, Jaak Juske and Helmen Küti on discrimination against families. Eduard Odines will receive the floor as a representative of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to make an inquiry on behalf of the Social Democrats to the Minister of Culture, Anneli Ot. Although, frankly, I feel pretty strange in the midst of the health and economic crisis talking about how to ensure access to museums on an equal footing for adults and children without any further restrictions in a situation where museums are stuck. But this is the particular nature of our enquiries. Specifically, this question has taken, for example, two months for the Minister of Culture to come here and answer. When we made an inquiry, the museums were completely open, and on the subject of the entrance to adults and children with them, the debate took place in our media. The Prime Minister last week urged us to make as many inquiries as possible. But when it takes two months to answer them, which is in line with the law, sometimes the subject does not seem so topical. However, this issue is important, this issue needs to be considered, and that is why the Social Democrats have put forward such a question. The reason for the inquiry was the information published in the media that one of the state museums, namely the Tartu Art Museum, did not sell the so-called family ticket to the mother who came there with her children. And this was justified by the fact that, according to the procedure, there must be two parents with their children. In this case, there was one and the family ticket didn't get. There was an exchange of words, so the Commissioner for Equal Treatment and Gender Equality had to intervene in the end. The Ministry of Culture had to intervene. On the same day, the rules were changed repeatedly and unfortunately not right again in the Tartu Art Museum, not as required by law. Eventually, they were fixed and received a letter that up to two adults and their accompanying children could purchase this so - called family ticket. On the same day, the Museum Advisor of the Ministry of Culture admitted that it is quite possible that another museum would misinterpret this provision of the Museum Act. Against the background of this story, we have decided to ask the Minister for Culture to discuss this subject here a little bit more favourably with families, adults and children with them. We have asked the Minister of Culture what message has been given to the Tartu Art Museum as a state museum in this way and their then ticket policy for families where there are no two parents or one parent is working abroad, for example, or is simply not there. Why were these families not considered worthy enough to sell them a family ticket? Next, we wanted to know from the Minister of Culture what measures the Ministry of Culture has taken in order to prevent such cases, which are obviously violations, also in other state museums. Perhaps what has the Ministry done and what has the Ministry learned from this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U96	Anneli Ott, Minister of Culture, will answer the questions. Please, Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U97	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable questioner! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the incident at the Tartu Art Museum is very unfortunate, but it is indeed an isolated case, as seen by the Ministry of Culture, and we have not received such complaints before. And indeed, in the light of this case, the Ministry of Culture......... the memos and we asked for a review of the rules of how they have defined the preferential ticket. [[The connection's breaking up.]] Because the law really stipulates that there are separate tickets for up to two adults, not two adults, and one or more children. This adult doesn't have to be a family member, he might be someone he knows. The principle is for children to be safe and supervised. So the fact that one family member is away from somewhere must certainly not be an obstacle. We received feedback from museums where there really was a different interpretation, but today we can confirm that we have had dialogue with museums, that the interpretation of this provision of law has been explained to them, and we consider it very important that all our museums follow the principle of equal treatment. This requirement applies not only to museums that are state museums, but also to collections of state-owned museums under an administrative contract, such as the Narva Museum, which we are talking about as a city museum. I think this problem raise is actually very important. Even though we are currently under restrictions, it is likely that soon, when the levels of virus in society fall, museums will still be able to continue their work under certain conditions. The clarity of the family ticket is very important, and I thank the authors of the questioning that we can discuss this issue. This message goes from here to society in general, and families will be better informed about the benefits they receive, the conditions for families to visit the museum.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U98	Questions, please! Eduard Odines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U99	Thank you, Madam Minister, for that answer. I will correct you: Narva Museum is not a city museum. The Narva Museum is a city-state foundation, a state-owned foundation. And we have more and more such foundations where the state is the sole founder or where the state is the founder of other organisations or local governments. This provision of law, which we are talking about today, is actually only about the state museums that we have left with a handful, because national policies have been such as to make them foundations. Have you considered in the ministry, or have you thought about extending this legal requirement so that it applies not only to state museums but also to state-owned foundations? This is to ensure equal treatment for adults who wish to enjoy cultural heritage with children, or rather for children who wish to do so with adults.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U100	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. This requirement also applies to museums which are not state museums but which use state-owned museum collections under an administrative contract. That's why I was talking about the Narva Museum, which belongs to the city, maybe the wording was a little confusing. We have not yet discussed extending the requirement to private museums. But really these museums, which are under an administrative contract with state-owned museum collections, are actually still subject to this provision of the law, and our interest is that children can visit museums as much as possible. To this end, the Ministry is working on a cultural policy measure that allows us to apply for free tickets for basic school students to museums, theatres and concerts, to visit 1 to 3 during the year. Here we need to work with local governments and schools to enable our students as much as possible to visit museums with state support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at the number of questions, and also at the fact that there is still a wish to talk in the negotiations, I propose that the Group of the Estonian Centre Party vote on the proposal to extend today's session so that we can certainly move forward with the enquiries. The proposal is formally until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We all understand that the agenda is long enough, so the proposal is to extend the sitting until 14:00. I'll put a little call in to prepare it. Can we go to the vote? No objections. Before the vote, Helle-Moonika Helme will have a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U102	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I had to use the possibility of a procedural question, otherwise I would have moved there somewhere behind the questions with my proposal. I now have a proposal to take a 10-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U103	We have an extension vote. For a moment, I will consult whether we have the opportunity to take a break, because this is not... Yes, at the request of the EKRE Group, there is a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U104	[[The manager's mike isn't on.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U105	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I don't think your microphone's working, I can't hear it at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U106	Oh, you're right. Do I have to tell you what I said again? We had an extension vote. An extension of the sitting was proposed by the Centre Party Group. There were 56 parliamentarians in favour of the extension of the sitting and 17 against the extension of the sitting. The proposal was supported, so we will continue to work today until 14:00. We are currently in the process of responding to inquiry 50 by Minister of Culture Anneli Oti. And I see there's another procedural question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U107	[[Remote connection]] In fact, the MPs also did not hear that you called on people to vote after the break, but now this vote has taken place. We were all very quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U108	I'm so sorry about that! I cannot now take this vote again. You could see the vote on the record we voted on. Heljo Pikhof, please! Heljo Pikhof, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U109	[[Remote connection]] Actually, I don't have a procedural question anymore. You moved me back in the speech. I just wanted to say that I exist, but I didn't hear anything you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U110	Got it. Reuben Kaalep, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U111	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Since most of the delegates obviously did not hear the issue that was put to the vote, would it not be appropriate to have a re-vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U112	Thank you. Unfortunately, you can't do that. The vote was announced before the break and it was also visible on both the board and the screens on which we are voting, and the majority of the MPs ultimately voted. That's right. The result of the vote has been announced; I cannot do anything with this result. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U113	Thank you, Mr President. I had the same problem, I didn't hear everything. Maybe it's possible to repeat it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U114	Unfortunately, our rules of procedure do not allow this after the hammer click. Once the result of the vote has been announced, that is the case. Let's continue with the questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U115	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for Culture very much when this explanation work has been done to the museum leaders in his field. But there is one question. If we're looking at the law today, the law says that up to two adults and children, but the name is a family ticket. Actually, today we're talking about a work family, a school family, a kindergarten family. If there is a family ticket, then the question arises: if, for example, a teacher goes to a museum with a classful of students, there is one adult and a classful of students, it has not been said how many children can accompany an adult, then the teacher could challenge that we are dealing with a class family. I'd like a little explanation here, too. Similarly, the question arises as to whether it has been explained to the museum staff or to the museum managers that, for example, if a grandmother goes with an adult grandson and younger grandchildren, she will be allowed in with this so-called family ticket. And, of course, family and children of the same sex, if there are, for example, two men or two women and children...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U116	Heljo Pikhof, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U117	. . . Then do they have an entrance with a family ticket?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U118	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for this clarification. The answer to the good questioner is that we really have explained this provision of the law. The law provides that up to two adults, we don't discriminate against anyone. And there may be more children, there may be as many children as there are in that family. There are, of course, other offers for classes. Here we also expect the museum visitor to follow these established rules and not abuse them. In fact, the number of children is not fixed, but of course we understand that there are not many families in the whole class, I think, unless we take small rural schools, where there are really very small classes. So in this respect, this law is still meant to prevent us from discrimination. As the questioner pointed out, we have very many families with single parents, and the number of adults here certainly cannot be an obstacle. Perhaps if a mother comes alone, a father alone, or a grandmother alone with her children, they will surely have a family ticket. We have also informed museums about this, asked for feedback, and since the problem arose, this discussion has been with museums. We also received feedback from the Equal Treatment Advisor Liisa Pakosta that such a response and solution was positive for her, and she was satisfied with it. Perhaps I would add that, in fact, we have not had such problems in museums in general. It was, I hope so, an exception. Such complaints have not been lodged in this way in the past. Likely, if there have been differences of opinion, they have been resolved peacefully on the ground. In this particular case, too, the museum met the family and the matter was well resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U119	Reuben Kaalep, please! And the ambassadors, please, let's stick to the one-minute rule!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U120	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear Minister, My question to you is this: what is your view, whether the same procedure governing the sale of family tickets in museums should also apply to all kinds of other institutions that also deal with the sale of family tickets, be they exhibitions or zoos or even water parks?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U121	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for this question. Certainly, if we are talking now about private companies, then there we cannot directly impose any rules, but we can certainly recommend and state what the national approach is. It's exactly the same with the exhibitions, they're museums. I don't know what exactly you meant by that, which other institutions? As zoos, I don't know how to comment directly from the Ministry of Culture. However, as far as I know, such a ticket system exists in a very large number of institutions and support for families, I think, is perfectly normal in our society and many also apply it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U122	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U123	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to give you an example of this. When two girlfriends go to a museum, both have their children with them, but they apply for a family ticket, are they also able to buy a family ticket? In the case of Heljo Pikhof and in your answer to him, this is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U124	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Indeed, when there are two adults and children, they also have the opportunity to buy a family ticket. If these kids are underage, maybe this notation will be more here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U125	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U126	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. You see, good lawmakers, what a mess! And why two girlfriends, not three girlfriends or four friends with kids? Or maybe 15 friends with kids? That's one way to go. We didn't have any messes before. Neither family nor marriage caused any confusion. There was no confusion. Now, however, the family ticket alone gives us a lot of confusion and misconception. I must say that these fertilising conditions of liberalism have been very good for our society in quotes and are creating more and more confusion of all kinds. So I guess you can thank me deeply. Obviously, the liberals must be thanked very deeply for the great mess we have in society. But here's to the term "family ticket." Perhaps it would be wise for us to create a clearer definition and to replace the word "family ticket" in the first place with another word or term that would create fewer questions and would also be clearer and more understandable? Like a "friend ticket" or a "social ticket" or some kind of "social ticket" or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U127	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question. As I said before, the question was raised about the family ticket. But in fact, we are talking about one possibility of a discount ticket, and in this case different names can be used, whether it is a group ticket, a joint ticket or something else. The principle is, however, that we primarily encourage families with up to two adults here, there is no confusion about how many of them can be with underage children. It's basically a discount ticket. And if the name of this ticket is either a family ticket, a group ticket or a joint ticket, then the principle is still one: to allow families to visit museums on a discount basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U128	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have been asked about the incident on 24 January, which took place in the framework of family tickets. Time takes wild steps and situations change, and I'm forced to ask you about the situation today. The prohibition of discrimination, which has been mentioned here, is still derived from § 5 of the Child Protection Act and is intended to guarantee the rights and well-being of children. Paragraph 6 of the Child Protection Act, "Prevention', paragraph 1, states that risks to the well-being and development of the child must be prevented in order to guarantee the rights and well-being of children. The mother was captured in front of the child, crying. Are you going to initiate proceedings against these policemen on the basis of a criminal or misdemeanour notice provided for in the Penal Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U130	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for this question. How has it gone, since this case was really in Tartu some time ago, I answered before one question that the Ministry of Culture was developing a cultural package or a measure on the basis of which students of primary school could use one to three opportunities to visit a cinema, theatre or museum in cooperation with local governments and schools during the year. In this regard, the Ministry of Culture will certainly work to ensure that museums are also available to our children, and these visits will support the development of students for educational purposes. Now, the incident at the demonstration you are talking about is definitely not a matter of the Ministry of Culture. I trust the Estonian police. And the decisions that were made on the ground there are certainly not my comments, because I am not familiar with them. I am unfortunately unable to comment on specific facts or to give them assessments, but I believe that the Estonian police have done as our laws require.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U131	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! According to § 68 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question if he or she is asked. I have here an indication that how many people want to ask a different question, I cannot allow it. So let's move on. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U132	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I have a question that goes a little bit beyond this subject today, but is clearly the subject of the Minister of Culture. A few years ago, I went to a municipal museum in Narva with a larger group, the Bastions Museum, which was very, very interesting. But the tour guide, who was completely intelligible, couldn't speak a word of Estonian, and in his story about Narva's history, was actually quite clearly faked and lied. He claimed that Narva's ancient city once existed as a pearl was destroyed by the Germans, even though we all know it was bombed by the Soviet army. At the time, I asked the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, how this could be done. He said it was perfectly normal and normal. Do you also consider it normal to fake history in Estonian museums?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U133	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question. Unfortunately, I have not been in contact with this particular problem; I have not received such cases. The overview given in museums or the information provided to visitors must be consistent with how these programmes are validated. So I really don't know how to explain this case in any way. I guess you can do that in the future if you didn't answer the question a few years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U134	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U135	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! A few years ago, tickets were cheaper for the repressed zoos. I don't think you do the zoo. But what about this thing in art museums and all kinds of other museums? Would it not be possible to grant more benefits to those who have been repressed because people have suffered? They don't have many benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U136	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for this question. Today, state museums have also provided incentives for these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U137	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U138	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I don't really envy you. Last Wednesday, you defended the draft law amending the Media Services Act, the effect of which you, I dare say, did not want or did not want to deepen. Actually, I'm not surprised if I didn't, because you're gonna have to deal with the details that you're dealing with right now. But if you're dealing with it like that, I'll ask you this. You said that a family with one or more children would receive a discount ticket. However, Paragraph 20 (3) (2) of the Museums Act reads as follows: "In determining the price of a museum ticket, a separate price must be set for the ticket, which allows for a common more favourable entrance to the museum for up to two adults with minors' children. " I repeat: with underage children. Maybe with a couple of kids. One child does not have several children. So I'm asking if I've misunderstood anything, that in the secret language of officials, the plural is also the singular. Or have you misunderstood something? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Or, if we are still talking about a number of children, is it not discrimination against single - child families that should necessarily be dealt with quickly in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U139	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U140	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. It is certainly not meant here that we would like to discriminate against anyone. A discount ticket, in this case a family ticket, is certainly also possible for a family who comes to the museum with one child or for two parents with one child or for one parent with one child. If this ticket is intended, it can also be purchased. It is not the case that there must be several children. Similarly, the family ticket allowance applies to a single - child family.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U141	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U142	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I read the news on the National Broadcasting Portal that today, in the museum of former occupations, the institution now living through the cultural revolution called Vabamu, there is a lecture of extremists on the first sexual intercourse for girls. Freedom as a museum of occupation can no longer be spoken of. However, all this ideological brainwashing has been funded through the Ministry of Culture. My question to you is: what is your personal position and your party's position, why does the Estonian taxpayer have to pay for feminist lectures on "First Intercourse"?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U143	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Support for museums is an operating grant. It is a general operating grant; the Ministry does not intervene in the production of content on a case-by-case basis. Unfortunately, I really cannot comment on the precise content of the event that is taking place there today. From what you've described, I certainly don't think it's anything unnecessary for young girls. What form and the tonality it is, I really don't know. But the Ministry of Culture does not intervene in the individual activities of each museum, in the creation of content in this sense, we do not coordinate events in museums. To illustrate: just as the theatres also have operating grants, the theatres still choose their own repertoire. The Ministry does not prescribe the terms and conditions of the operating grant, such as what performances can be performed. Similarly, we do not censor museums, which exhibitions or activities they may plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U144	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Museums are already offering digital tours, and in the future it will probably be even more a part of everyday life. Given that we have a lot of honeycomb families in Estonia, where mom, dad, kids, everybody can have a different name, I have the question: is there a solution that is already meant to be, how can such families using different names prove digitally that they are family so that they can benefit from family benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U146	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Indeed, this crisis has highlighted new needs as well as solutions for bringing culture to our people, including museums, as well as concerts and theatre performances. As the concert organisers also say, if we use digital platforms here, we need to take into account that we cannot come and check behind the camera how many people there are and how many tickets have been bought. The Ministry of Culture has already received some feedback on this activity during this period. For us, the principles are the same as for us when buying ordinary tickets. The Ministry of Culture will certainly not be in any special situation here in the future. We need to find and develop ways to provide people with expanding opportunities to visit museums, theatres and concerts, but at the same time also to find solutions for offering these visits in such a way that theatres, concerts, museums can have considerable ticket revenues from which to develop this service and bring it to people. So here, I think, there are two keywords: on the one hand, trust and on the other hand, development in the development of these digital platforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U147	Indrek Island has a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U148	[[Remote connection]] Yeah! Since Henn Põllaas mentioned me in his last speech, I ask for the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U149	This can be done during the negotiations. Please! That's right, but during the negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U150	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, let's just say that next to families, they're discriminating against every part of the city. There are 32,000 people living in the Kristiine district, but there is actually no library. In the Public Library Act, I read various numbers: in a city of up to 10,000 inhabitants [at least one library] and in [the larger city of every] 15000 inhabitants [at least one library]. Well, we wouldn't need three real libraries. But I've heard that the library law is in the ministry to be tuned. My question is, which side is it being tunad down there? The second part of the question is when can it be expected that the Czech Republic and France will stop having a hard time and we will get VAT on digital books at 9%?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U151	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Libraries are certainly very important to the Ministry of Culture. And we're really working on the library law right now. The Ministry of Culture also asked, three weeks ago, if I am not mistaken, all the local authorities for feedback on their vision of the development of libraries, the development of the library network and the problems they have encountered. To date, we have received about 40 responses from local governments. Thank you very much to those who have responded! The Ministry of Culture will review all these answers, we will also take stock of them, what are the main problems and how further development of libraries will be seen. There is certainly one topic in the digital field, but there must be just as much emphasis here on the fact that libraries are also extremely important community centres, people's gathering places and the library as such are certainly not just a point of exchange of books today, but much more. And it has very high educational goals. So in order for this network to be as balanced as possible, the Ministry is working. Personally, I am certainly not in favour of transferring as much as possible to digital solutions, while physically losing libraries and reducing library services. These decisions must be very carefully considered and, if digital solutions are cheaper, this does not mean that libraries as physical sites may be reduced. During the crisis, of course, different solutions have been found and these solutions must also be further developed. Here we are talking about digital library lockers that can be used to continue the service when the library closes. But this certainly cannot be the way we develop libraries more widely. This is simply an aid measure to make the service more accessible. The library law now really, as the good questioner said, the Ministry of Culture is working out. And hopefully during this year we will be able to introduce it to the Riigikogu, which are more precisely the visions of how the wider treatment of the library service in Estonia should look in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U152	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U153	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was moved to ask for your answer to a good colleague, Urmas Reitelmann. What is happening in Libermus has brought my thoughts back to the protocol of cooperation between the Centre Party and the United Russia. And this cooperation protocol, as we know, is one of the brick walls that consolidates the propaganda of the Russian President and Russia's foreign policy abroad. Now we see that the Museum of Occupation has begun to deal with topics that will help to forget the very difficult period of our country and our people's lives. My question to you is, is there any connection here? Is there any connection between Vabamu's reminiscing about the issues of occupation and the cooperation protocol between the Centre Party and the United Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U154	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good questioner! As I said earlier, the Ministry of Culture has operating grants for museums and operating grants, we do not coordinate the programmes that museums do in particular. This training or seminar, I do not know exactly what is going on there today, is certainly not the level at which the Ministry of Culture intervenes. Now, the connection you created, I certainly don't see it here. According to the democratic state, museums are able to draw up their own programmes themselves. If there are any activities or signs that are not right about the preservation of the democracy of the Estonian state, then we have other authorities in the country that are working on it and are monitoring it. The Ministry of Culture is not the institution that controls the content of museum programmes and the security of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U155	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Anneli! Could the current family ticket system in museums be extended to sports establishments owned by the state and local authorities? I am thinking of the pay-per-view events that are being held there, the competitions and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U157	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. A discount ticket, a family ticket, has certainly been implemented in many municipalities. We can recommend this, but I think I said from the very beginning that this principle actually applies to a wide range of services, where families, as well as different social groups, age groups are subject to special-rate tickets, including children and families. And certainly these benefits include sports events such as sports events, where children take off, which are quite free. So local authorities organise a lot of events that are free for everyone: health days, public sports events. These are independent decisions by local governments, and here we can only share recommendations. But I believe that, here too, local authorities have a very clear desire to offer these opportunities to all those who wish, and to this end, different opportunities for participation are being developed, including preferential tickets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U158	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U159	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good minister! I used to be a museum director. I am listening to this debate here and, frankly, I would like to say that a bullet in the head is what we are discussing here. In the case of the Museum Act at the time, it was neither § 20 nor the content was different, and since the museums were subject to different ministries, the Minister introduced [the rules] by decree. At present, it is a paragraph of § 20 of the Museums Act. My question to you is whether, in the example of this unfortunate Tartu Art Museum, the minister should write to museums what this family ticket should be or what it should look like. Or is it that every museum looks at itself how common sense wins?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U160	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I think the current law actually provides an opportunity to apply a discount ticket. This example of Tartu is actually a very lonely example. I believe that the Riigikogu does not need to amend the law. When this case of Tartu became public, when the problem arose, the Ministry of Culture also sent an explanatory reminder letter to all other museums, which is specifically meant under this law. And in fact, museums have implemented it in this way. This isolated incident is certainly not something that we should generalise and on which the law should be amended. Rather, the purpose of this current point of law is also to improve accessibility for people who do not have so many of these opportunities. I don't know what kind of confusion or problem you're talking about. However, it is really not necessary to extend this individual case to the entire ticket system or to the system of operating museums, I think. At the moment, the Ministry has been in contact with museums, and I believe that we have successfully resolved this mismatch or misunderstanding. I think it will be exactly the same in the future that, should there be any misunderstandings, these are very isolated and exceptional cases, just like what we are talking about here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U161	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U162	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I understand that these are not easy questions, but I would remind you that on 13 January the Centre Party itself introduced a draft law amending the family law. So you're gonna have to chew that bone, or the situation is gonna be really messy. And I imagine that if someone starts checking out two girlfriends who come with the kids and ask for a family ticket, I don't know what kind of hate speech they're gonna be charged with. Maybe we should make them some kind of partnership. As sad as it may seem, you're going to have to start to burst like fruit of your own work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U163	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. As I have explained in the past, the point of law is to allow this service to as many people as possible, and what we call it is a discount ticket, a public ticket, a family ticket, that is not the main problem. The aim is to provide preferential opportunities for up to two adults and underage children. The law does not mention a family ticket directly. But it will certainly help everyone to buy a ticket if their family goes to a museum and it is certainly easier to understand a ticket like this. Those users who purchase this ticket are likely to be more than such a very clearly defined option to buy a preferential ticket. This is the most common term used in offering this discount ticket and what is known in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U164	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U165	[[Remote connection]] President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, If the Ministry doesn't interfere with the contents of the museum, why did Alfred Rosenberg's exposure disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U166	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I'm afraid I don't know exactly how to answer that question. If this has happened since I was a minister, I am so sorry. However, I have never had such a question on my desk before, and therefore I am not able to comment further on this issue here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U167	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U168	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I also have a slightly different question: some time ago we could read in the media that Kumu decided to make the titles more neutral by removing the words of racial emphasis. How about this? Does the Ministry of Culture have any idea how to start changing headlines? Agatha Christiel is also known to be a crime novel about ten small representatives of one race. Is there a plan to review and ban all such titles in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U169	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that question. This is really an exhibition. The Ministry of Culture is not going to change these headlines. As far as I know, there were different headlines or options for headlines. The Ministry of Culture does not directly change the titles of the expositions at the art exhibition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U170	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U171	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns small rural museums, which often also have to be managed and financed by local authorities. How, then, should they cope with this pandemic situation now? And what resources has the government planned to channel to support them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U172	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. These museums, which belong to local governments, are equally eligible from the support measure of the Ministry of Culture, which is a support measure for cultural operators. As soon as possible, the Ministry of Culture will also open this measure once the additional budget has been adopted and we can implement the regulations. The broader content of the Regulation is that it is possible to ask for support for cultural operators working under the Debt Law Treaty, as well as for cultural institutions that have lost their ticket revenues, but nevertheless there are costs that need to be covered. In order to compensate for these costs, it is also possible for museums belonging to local governments to ask for support. The additional budget is also directly supported by the local government if the Riigikogu approves it. As far as I know, it's 15 million, which is to compensate for the effects of the corona crisis. There the local government itself decides what are the activities that are most in need of help within the framework of this local government. So there are two such measures today and this is also a priority for the Ministry of Culture in its development. We consider it important to start paying out these grants to cultural operators as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U173	Thank you, Minister of Culture, no further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. During the negotiations, it is possible for the interviewers or the representative of the interviewers to speak, and then all members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees or political groups can also take part in the discussions. The speech can be made either from the remote control for 5 + 3 minutes, or the speech can be made on the spot for two minutes, and, if the minister so wishes, he can speak again at the end of the negotiations. And first of all, then... Oh, first there's a procedural question. The anti-Semimets!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U174	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I hope you hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U175	Now we hear, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U176	[[Remote connection]] I would like to make one comment on the earlier vote on the extension of the sitting. Today, we were given a situation that is not regulated by the current electronic procedure for holding a sitting. Perhaps the people who were wired, they thought that they themselves had communication problems, but a situation where the President himself has communication problems may have very serious consequences for us in some of the votes. Today we only voted on the extension, but tomorrow we will vote on the crisis laws and billions of investments. As a result, I have a request that you take this case before the Riigikogu Board and discuss how to hold a re-vote in this case. I did a little bit of feeling, too. I managed to make this vote, but it is not correct and is dangerous in a way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U177	I'll take that information with me. Thank you. But let's get to the negotiations. First of all, on behalf of the heirs of the Eduard Odines Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for Anneli Ott's reply to our question and, of course, I also thank you for the many additional comments he made in response to the additional questions. When, at the beginning of listening to the Minister, it seemed that everything was clear, all the concerns resolved, the individual case repeated on the same day, no more questions on this subject, then to my point of clarification about the foundations, the answer came to the requirement to offer more favourable tickets to up to two adults and the young children with them, I was also very pleased with the foundations. But the further discussion really worried me. And the more I listened to the Minister, the more confused I got. The name 'family ticket', which, according to my data, is exclusively used in all museums, is obviously a major source of confusion on this issue. In his reply, the Minister mentioned that this is a very good opportunity for families. In answer to the following question, he said that it had nothing to do with families and let us call this ticket whatever it takes. The fact is, most museums use it as a family ticket. And actually, we don't know how people who come to the museum and how museum cashiers interpret this provision. Because let's be honest, people, ordinary visitors probably don't know that the law doesn't say a word about family, not a word about family tickets. The law speaks of up to two adults and their children. I also point out that the law does not say that they must be [their] children. Kids don't have to be these grown-up kids. It takes us even further than the idea that it is a family benefit. Two options: either it is badly written in law, or we have to stop calling this ticket a family ticket and say that it is an advantage that enables children to come with an adult. Whether it's grown-up uncles, neighbors, grandmothers or just girlfriends, as it sounds today. The Minister claims that this is an exceptional case and that all these cases have been resolved. It seems to me that this is not the case. A very quick and brief view of the ticket prices of state museums and, as the Minister said, of the foundations established by the state shows us a very strange picture. For example, the Museum of Hiiumaa says that this ticket is for up to two parents. I do not know whether parents are universally intended or whether they are intended for parents of specific children accompanying them. For example, the Open Air Museum says that these children must be up to 19 years of age. In this case, the situation is even more favourable than that provided for by the law. The Museum of Architecture says that this ticket is for up to two parents. We're talking about parents again. And here's the question of how the cashier and how the older or the family or the grown-up people who come will interpret it. Please add up to three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U179	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U180	The confusion keeps getting worse. And as we know from this incident at the Tartu Art Museum, it all started with this accident, the first days of the ticket salesman who literally read the price list given to him. After that, it turned out that something else was actually meant, the actual practice at the museum was something else. How many more of these beginners are there when these museums open, who literally interpret the same price lists as I quote? Take the Palamuse Museum, for example. It says that there are up to two adults and up to three children. For up to three kids! The number of children is limited in particular. The law does not say anything about the number of children, as the minister told us. The Museum of Natural History tells us up to four children even better, but still and still illegal. Haapsalu and Läänemaa museums say that there are up to two adults and their children. Once again, the question arises as to how this demonstration is carried out. How can we make sure that they are their children or that they are not their children? The Art Museum says up to two adults and family children. Family brought in again. This wording does not correspond to the paragraph of the law. The Narva Museum, mentioned today, talks about two adults and their children. The Health Museum specifically talks about two adults, not up to two adults. The Maritime Museum is again talking about two adults and their children. In any case, I cannot in any way share the Minister's optimism and say, it was an isolated case, an exceptional case, and everything is fine. It's not okay, Minister of Culture! The fact that these cases have not come to the public shows, not that things are in order, but that people do not know their rights. The law specifically states: up to two adults with underage children. No mention is made of whose children they are, no mention being made of the links between these adults. Things have to be fixed in all the museums. And just in case I don't have to make any new inquiries, I would point out that there are other inconsistencies between the price lists of different museums and the article of the law. As far as children up to 8 years of age are concerned, we have, for example, the War Museum, which talks about preschool children. The law says "child up to 8 years old," the War Museum talks about preschool children, which again do not comply with the law. There are also problems for people with disabilities. These concern disabled persons up to 16 years of age. Minister, please check what is happening in your area of administration with the price lists of museums, so that no person who wishes to enjoy cultural heritage stays at the door or misses the benefits provided to him by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U181	Kalle Grünthal, please, from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this inquiry, which has been raised today, is very topical, and it concerns discrimination against families. The reason was that the press has announced that on January 24 a family ticket was refused to sell to a mother with two children at the Tartu Art Museum. This question was made on 10 February, but since then a number of water has already flowed into the sea, and this discrimination has already appeared in many other forms, transferring to today and to yesterday and the day before yesterday. It is clear that children must be protected from discrimination and spared any emotional negative experience. However, unfortunately, there has been a situation where demonstrators who are peacefully on the Square of Freedom are being used to see their parents, their mother, their children, I am not now naming violence directly, but rather discriminatory, which is extremely abusive in terms of the emotional position of the child. If we want children to be healthy, we can continue to develop, then these situations must be avoided. And I am a little distracted by the reply of our Minister of Culture, Anneli Ot, when I asked whether, in such cases, you were also prepared to turn to the law enforcement authorities so that this discrimination against children would no longer take place. I would point out that it is still a minister, a person within the government who should be in charge of these tasks, even though it is not under his authority. Kids are our future, and we have to keep them safe, protect them from negative emotions. But what else do I want to say? It seems that discrimination has already become part of our society and not only towards ordinary citizens, but even to members of the Riigikogu. By who? I guess it's from the police. The police are exercising total control over us, regardless of the laws that should apply to everyone. But, well, what is a mere member of the Riigikogu and, of course, especially members of the Riigikogu, who belong to the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. There was this case this morning that... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U183	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U184	... Kert Kingo, Ambassador of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, came to work in a car, drove up the hill to the castle, and in front of the church began to make a turn left to get to the castle site. One minute a policeman in a blue uniform stood right next to him. I assume it may have been a government security officer who first informed him that why you're breaking traffic regulations, you can't drive from here. You can't drive from here! No routine action involving routine traffic surveillance checks, where the policeman stops the vehicle, first introduces himself, presents his name, title, and then explains the reason for the suspension. It was different now. Why are you breaking traffic regulations? No such thing as who I am or what I am. This is a very serious violation of traffic supervision. I don't care if this is some sort of task force or a security officer for government agencies. If they're going to be in charge of traffic surveillance, they're going to have to introduce themselves. And we have a right to know who the official to whom we have to give answers. Of course, the most perilous thing is that a respected control officer, who has grossly ignored the rules of traffic supervision, has not made his knowledge of traffic clear to himself. The point is that the Ambassador of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, Kert Kingo, did not break any traffic regulations. In fact, before the church, there is such a traffic sign, duty mark No 413 "Current turn to the right." Then traffic will be redirected to the Russian Orthodox Church. However, under this mandatory mark is the additional plaque "except with the permissions of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu." This means that Kert Kingo had no need and no obligation to make a circle around the church. That's one side of it. And I am convinced that whoever took up illegal traffic control must also have seen Kert Kingo withdraw his permission to enter the territory of the Riigikogu, but nevertheless he began to attack him under the auspices of a traffic violation. That's the thing, let's say, the formal legal side. In fact, the question is that I believe that this mark does not even apply to ordinary citizens. This is because, as we know, a road sign is a sign that establishes a certain traffic regime, informs the road user about the risk of traffic, or helps to guide traffic. Road signs have their own requirements, parameters of its diameter, dimensions and markings. This mark, which obliges you to drive to the right, does not meet these standards. This is an invalid road sign. And now we're taking the chance to attack only the EKRE people, because just before Kert Kingo, another car did the same thing. He wasn't pricked. If this is not discrimination at the police level against the members of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I ask what is this, esteemed Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U185	Thank you. Since Kert Kingo was mentioned during the negotiations, Kert Kingo has the right to object. Please, Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U186	Thank you for the floor. I must admit that the situation brought out by Kalle Grünthal really took place this morning. And I have to admit that this approach to me was verbal brutality, it had nothing to do with the normal police behaviour expected or whatever, and it was certainly extremely unpleasant. As far as discrimination is concerned, I congratulate the Socialists for bringing such a small piece of discrimination into this Chamber. But we have discrimination, as we have heard today, also at every step, every minute, everywhere and in relation to different people. And it has to be dealt with. Recent discrimination took place right here on the Riigikogu Square, when peaceful people who expressed their senses had to be prevented to the teeth by armed special forces. The same thing happened in Liberty Square. I very much hope that we will not be defending and standing up for the individual groups here in the future, but that we will be dealing with everyone and guaranteeing the rights and protection of all people from discrimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U187	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U188	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to talk about world pain right now, okay, everybody has it, but as a start, I'm gonna have to say, I was driving from under this badge today, making a left turn. And I was not discriminated against by anyone, even though I am a member of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I greeted these policemen friendlyly, they nodded and turned left. But I really don't want to talk about it, I want to talk about asking questions. I have been the director of one of the largest museums in Estonia for years and also the manager of the museum association. It was years ago, but listening to this question now, well, it's embarrassing. We are already spending the second hour of valuable time dealing with a single case. And at the same time, we are head over heels in the dark of the night and not just in the dark of the night or behind the closed doors of the committees, slipping over as a roller. Things are out of proportion. Everything that happened at the Tartu Art Museum this January is a perverse isolated incident. I recall that the Tartu Art Museum has had these problems before, but it is a matter of common sense. When I was the director of the museum and my colleagues ran museums, it was clearly the responsibility of the museum directors to say what exceptions etc. could and has been made. And it doesn't matter if it's a state museum. The museum law was in force at the time, and there, as I said before, by order of the minister concerned, these limits were granted. Currently, § 20 of the Museums Act is a paragraph of some kind. But it all depends on who runs the eleven-third museum and how arrogant he is and whether he understands that in Estonia's current conditions, every child, every family, whatever, he is a honeycomb or some other, curry family, or what we call, gold, and their access to cultural goods, whatever they are, they are works of art or stuffed animals, or some kind of zoo or records, are essential, we must ensure this. It is the easiest thing to do, and I think it will work in most places, when there are normal museum leaders who set the rules. And there are arrogant, incompetent leaders who don't understand what they're doing. Of course, there are cashiers. I had cashiers sitting there too, nice aunts, didn't I? Sometimes they come and ask me, Peter, what are we gonna do with it here? I said let me in, all the jam. So it's not just about the director of the museum, maybe it's just this aunt, or she's younger, some kind of girl at the Tartu Art Museum, I know who's usually sitting there, they're not real aunts. So this is an isolated incident. I don't think we need to start changing any law here, telling us what this family should be, what kind of document we need to ask for. Children and the demographic situation in Estonia are catastrophic and we must ensure that everything is done to ensure that children and their families can also gain access to cultural goods. Period. And there's no need to start changing the law here or anything else, is there? This is my message. We should look in the mirror. To spend time, valuable time here describing and discussing one of these perverted individual cases, while we do not have time for crucial national issues, or we are acting in the shadow of the night here over our heads or within the framework of committees, I repeat once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U189	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U190	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good people interested in bibliophilia! That's how I started my sessions at the Tallinn City Council when we were talking about something of a kind of corruption, because it always happened that they were talking about books, and then it was good to quote: "It's raining, it's driving me crazy that night, I know. I'm gonna have to read everything I can get into my hands. " But that's not what I wanted to talk about. The previous speaker was talking about some perversions. Well, I seriously disagree, because these individual cases actually happen to be exceptions, and if they are already branded somewhere, it may become a norm or a norm. Each chain is as strong as its weakest link. I can remember this situation here from the time I was a student. Yeah, I didn't go to college when I was 18 years old, I was a little older. I went to Maarjamägi to watch Levadia and Flora play, took out my ISIC card, so proudly, and then the security guard announced that the student was up to 18 years old. Well, what am I arguing about? Clearly, there's no point in arguing with a security guard like that so much. But all of that, how and how we deal with something. The law could give priority to this purpose and task. The point of the law is for the family to spend quality time together. Maybe my generation is the one who's been to all the museums. I was a very special museum junkie. The History Museum and such were those where they were always [got to go]. There was no new exposure, but I still found the time to spend hours and hours there. I remember one of those great things. I think we were in the ninth grade when they took a drink and the class nurses went out to argue with each other, who went to the museum more often. I remember, very colorful was this: "... . And then next to that bulwark, this little cafe that's now at Friendship, that's where the museum is... What's the name of this museum? It's a museum of theatre and music. " Perhaps what we can touch or who is smarter and better, we will always find. The purpose of the law is for the family to spend quality time. And if here one said that if there are two girlfriends, then they're like a family, no no no family. In that case, we can say: "Hello, all the Estonian ski family who could not now go to the Tartu Marathon! " And they come in. Or who's Family Bread and so on. Let's not blur that concept. The aim is for parents or parents and children or children to spend quality time together. This is my message. Now, when we come back to this library law, yes, we have a number of very interesting projects, there is a library bus that has been approved and works completely. And let's say there's a lot of books that the school has written as a recommended obligation. If you don't get out of the usual library now, nobody knows about the library bus. Books could actually be distributed on our shores, where people are interested, although the book should then perhaps be made of some other material. Now, to make the conversation more fun, the minister said that there are digital boxes where you can put a book. Well, broadly speaking, the book still has the usual box, no digital. Or the other one is where you can let a book in the mailbox. I remember Mel Brooks' film "Young Frankenstein" or "Young Frankenstein," where Frankenstein needed brains, and it was a brain rental. And there was a sign that if we're stuck, put your brains in the mailbox. There was this little slit. But according to this same film, the Finnish band Eppu Normali was named after him. Perhaps there was a professor next to Abby Normal, translated into Finnish by Eppu Normali or "abnormal." Let's not make the concept of family any abnormal association, but still so that the child and parents can go together and spend quality time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U191	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U192	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U193	Whoa, whoa, whoa, there's got to be some sound. There's a speaker coming in next door.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U194	[[Remote connection]] Yeah. I'm trying to get it...... to the next front line of a very clear cultural war right now. [[The connection's breaking up.]] And at the beginning of the week, we had a minister here introducing the Media Services Act, where they were focused......clearly on the fact that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U195	Sorry, we can't hear anything. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U196	[[Remote connection]] Of course I...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U197	Mart, we can't hear a thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U198	[[Remote connection]] ... by the coalition, by the officials. But it's actually a censorship bill. Now we're here today on the second section of the cultural war, fighting battles, and this section is called whether we have families with two parents and children of the same sex. No, they're not families. They're social combinations, no matter what name we give them, but they're not families. And it deeply offends me that people like this and such associations are called families. It is the family that has a husband, wife, and children, where the husband bears the responsibility of the husband, the father's responsibility, the wife bears the responsibility of the mother, the mother's duties, gives her, feminine perspective, experience and skills to both sons and daughters. A man, a father, does this to his abilities...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U199	Mart, we can't hear you at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U200	[[Remote connection]] ...we see men being taunted, men being drunken, violent. The family is the most dangerous place in Estonia, it gets beaten up, the children are killed, the children are fleeing there, it is a section of the cultural war. And now we have this cultural war front in this room. Instead of talking about the serious problems of cultural disruption, which have turned out to be neo-Marxists in Western Europe, about a culture of cancellation that questions all the great achievements of European, European, Christian culture, instead of whether two women can call themselves family with their children or whether two men can call themselves family with their children. Imagine they're being discriminated against, they don't get a family ticket! Is the cost of a family ticket, that difference, the difference of a few euros that is there, such a critical issue that it must be discussed in this Chamber alongside the abolition of the great achievements of our European civilisation? I dare say it isn't. It is one of the firm flowers of perverted Christian culture, European culture, cultural war, which actually fits perfectly into the wider context of this repeal culture as a piece of puzzle. And that is why I am saying that this is simply unacceptable to normal people. And most people are normal people. What else do I want to say? I would also like to say that instead of even talking about this issue, we should talk about the extremely bad state of our cultural heritage. The poor status of this cultural heritage has been for decades... the owner of a valuable cultural object, even several owners, I know very well how destructive it is to the preservation of cultural objects by our current law of heritage conservation. [[The connection's breaking up.]] And I also know that we have taken a completely reckless view of the memory and heritage of the great figures of our culture. Let me give you an example. There's a mansion like Varang Manor. Next to Varang Manor is, at least it was, I haven't been there for quite a while, the ruler's house, where Eduard Wiiralt was born.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U201	Would the performer like an extra three minutes? We'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U202	[[Remote connection]] ... one of the most outstanding... Instead of keeping this house in order, the Estonian state would make it a personal museum of Wiiralt, thus preserving one of the remarkable achievements of our cultural heritage... [[The connection's breaking up.]] We can give many, many more similar examples, but there is no point. I'll limit it to one example. Another example, the Patarei prison, which has such a multilayered social, historical heritage seal, went into private hands. And now, as we know, big plans have been paused there again. The pause on big plans is, of course, linked to our pandemic or epidemic situation, but on the other hand it is also very eloquent. For decades, the state, governments, has been unable to do anything significant with this huge and powerful monumental object, and is still unable to give its helping hand to the private owner of the object. And that's very eloquent. At the same time, we are spending huge money on expanding bureaucracy, completely unnecessary projects and projects. The waste of public money is epidemic. It's just ridiculous how much culture falls from there. It's just ridiculous. I dealt with tourism for many years and I can say that such excellent representatives of Estonian culture as Mart Saar, his house museum, are in an extremely pathetic situation. And we can give examples of this again in a series. It is a change that often needs to be allocated to these objects. But they won't find that change. And then we talk about how families are discriminated against! Let us put an end to this propaganda of abnormalness and begin to deal with the real problems. We will tackle the real improvement of the pathetic status of our cultural heritage. Let's start one at a time! Let's start with this very Wiiralt, this very Mart Saaret, our singing tradition and whatever. But for God's sake, let's stop this abnormal smart talk and close one of the fronts of the cultural war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U203	Thank you. Ruuben Kaalep has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U204	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a very important procedural question concerning the fulfilment of our weekly agenda and compliance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. We are now in a situation where, even today, we will not reach the point where a free microphone should have taken place on Monday. Even if we could get to it, the free microphone could only be on Monday. Is there no contradiction with § 55 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Home, which says that the Riigikogu cannot exclude from the agenda matters that the Riigikogu must discuss in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia or this Act? The free microphone must be provided in accordance with § 47 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. This is not simply a formality or good practice, because a free microphone guarantees the fundamental democratic right of members of the Riigikogu to raise important and urgent issues outside the agenda and draw attention to the processes in society. Do you not think that this is a serious violation of the Home and Working Procedures Act and an obstacle to the fundamental rights of members of the Riigikogu? How can this be solved? For example, should a new voting on the agenda be organised?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U205	Thank you. Yesterday, there was a discussion of this at the Bureau meeting, and it is indeed possible to interpret different paragraphs here. The board's view was that the free microphone is only on Monday, only after the end of the agenda, and if the free microphone is not available until midnight, then the next free microphone will be available next Monday. In other words, a free microphone is not an item on the agenda that would delay the entire agenda, but it has a certain time, as at Question Time, for example. We could not identify yesterday that there would be an infringement of the Rules of Procedure if there was no time left for a free microphone at the expense of the other agenda. Let's move on with the negotiations. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U206	[[Remote connection]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am coming back to culture because the inquiry addressed cultural issues and was aimed at the Minister of Culture. I am very happy when it comes to culture and its availability, but I am a little unhappy when the Riigikogu focuses on things that are state-thinking, like topics two floors below the level of the Riigikogu. I liked the speech of a good colleague of the previous speakers, Peeter Ernits, who has already risen from the level of the ticket checker to the level of the museum director. Museums, as we all know, are quite a weepy story. This weeping story has nothing to do with controlling the ticket or even with a discount ticket, but with financing museums at all. And this is already the level of the Riigikogu. Over and over again. You can't make it without a ticket. The museums are told that you want to gain more pay, earn your own income. But there's something else I'd like to cut back on the same ticket or make someone else happy with it. So it's a pretty complicated situation. Cultural and educational activities could be free of charge in a country claiming to be an educated country. Let's look in the mirror: students could go to a museum free of charge, just as free as school, because what else is it than developing them, educating them, training them really, in a slightly different form. Teachers could also enjoy privileges, and I know myself as a privileged person when I go to France, for example, go to Orsay Museum, show my schoolteacher's card and have no discount ticket, but I just go to the museum. Some might even agree with the fact that, instead of getting tickets, even a tourist can get a free entrance to a museum or a tourist passport to some museums, no matter how. But, well, apparently, there could also be a private museum that is oriented towards commercial revenue, there could indeed be a museum with a ticket, and then the Ministry of Culture is already implementing some sort of country projects for them and everything else that brings a young person even to that paid museum. Or maybe we like to play bookkeeping, check the ticket checks. I propose that the Riigikogu should rise two floors higher than we normally are here in our talks and that we agree that museums have sufficient funding, have an important place in our education and culture system, and the state will find the money that they are missing to survive, even without any ticket revenue. It would be a powerful initiative, and then there is no need to talk about whether this aunt was harmed or whether her uncle was offered candy. Let's take things at Riigikogu level! The political groups, let us first look in the mirror at whether we agree or whether we want to break the hair. But as far as the Tartu Art Museum is concerned, it is indeed a very nice museum, and I have many positive experiences, a friendly and helpful attitude. It's been enjoyable. There may be exceptions everywhere. Here before, somebody talked about the library's digital boxes and thought they had to be standard boxes. Dear friends, these digital boxes of libraries, including the National Library, are an excellent solution for how literature is also available during an epidemic, and thank you for making them up. They're something that belongs to the library where we get information, not just where there's a cafe and where it's nice to go. Dear friends, let us rise to the level of the Riigikogu and end this flea circus, that we are controls of ticket control and some things could be better done at this level. Let's move on qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U207	Thank you. Helmen Küti's speech on the subject, but before that, Raimond Kaljulaid's procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U208	[[Remote connection]] Hello! Mr President, good vice-chairman. If I look at the watch, I can see that we'll probably be able to finish this question, perhaps, but we can barely begin with the next question. That is why I would like to propose to you that, once we have completed this inquiry and then, if the Home and Rules of Procedure law allows it, perhaps you will be able to take the chairman's break and we can start a new inquiry tomorrow from the beginning and this debate will not be split two days later. I think that would be quite a sensible solution in the current situation, if the law, of course, allows it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U209	Thank you. Yeah, the manager can take up to 30 minutes of recess, and that's a reasonable solution. But Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U210	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, and indeed the Minister, if he continues to follow this debate! I listened long and hard to the speeches of good colleagues and also to the questions, and in the meantime I had the feeling that the question of why we are dealing with such an empty matter would be upset with the inquisitors. We submitted this enquiry more than two months ago, and I think it was very reasonable to ask for an answer. There is no doubt that speeches are free for everyone; anyone can say what he thinks of it. But don't blame the inquisitives for why you even understand such a thing. It was important for our party, we wanted to ask questions to the Minister, and it would certainly have been better if the Minister had come to answer them a little earlier. But thanks for coming, and we got a lot of problems clearer or an overview of what was planned. However, I believe that all the speeches that have been made on this platform or through the TV bridge were also necessary for the Minister to ensure certain changes and harmonisation and consistent behaviour in this sector as well. But once again, don't blame the heirs. We asked what we were interested in. Everyone, every member of the Riigikogu, each political group can submit their enquiries and so it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-13_U211	Thank you. The minister doesn't want to, I understand, perform? In this respect, inquiry No 50 has been dealt with. Indeed, we still have a series of questions ahead of us, but in the interests of procedural economics, I agree that it is reasonable to start tomorrow from the beginning. I will announce the chairman's break for ten minutes, and when this is over, today's session will also be closed.
