ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 8th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. As usual, let's start by handing over drafts and enquiries. Reuben Kaalep, please! [[Silence.]] We can't hear you. We'll see, but we can't hear. The mike's probably out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U2	Hello, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U3	Yeah, I can hear you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U4	Dear Riigikogu! On 8 March, the European Parliament decided to remove the immunity from the three MEPs in favour of the independence of Catalonia. In essence, taking the ambassador's immunity allows them to be extradited to Spain, which wishes to be tried. The trial of Catalan independence is clearly politically motivated and is the result of their support for the separation of Catalonia from Spain. The European Parliament's support for such political persecution calls into serious doubt the respect for democracy and the rule of law, and the protection of freedom of opinion, expression and belief and the rights of indigenous peoples in the European Union. As a result, I will submit an inquiry signed by six members of the Riigikogu to the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Estonia. The inquiry has been transmitted electronically to the sitting department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U5	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U6	Thank you, good manager. I will present a draft on behalf of the Social Democratic Party and Raimond Kaljulaid, which will raise the age limit for sexual self-determination to the age of 16. Indeed, in Estonia, this has been discussed several times in the past, but so far the age limit has remained at 14 years of age. At the same time, many other countries, whether Lithuania or Finland, have raised the age limit for sexual self-determination to protect children. It is a great pity that these reactions come upon such public cases, but it seems that a window is opening now and that both coalition and opposition parties have indicated their willingness to proceed with this kind of legislative amendment. At the same time, it is essential that, in addition to a legislative amendment that does not change attitudes in itself, sexual education is widely available, that bystanders, suspects and spotters understand their responsibility for protecting children and that social attitudes do not spread responsibility on children or blame the victim. But I hope that we can discuss it, make sensible decisions to protect children and go on with raising the age limit for sexual self-determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U7	Thank you. Next, I'd like to ask the government representative, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U8	Dear Chairman, Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates four draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. The first draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Education and Research in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Emergency Act and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Third, the draft law amending the Penal Code (non-cash means of payment). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the double taxation agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Federal Republic of Germany on income and capital taxes signed on 29 November 1996. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance in the proceedings of the draft law. And fifthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the financing of the European Union's re-launch plan and the approval of the Council of the European Union's decision on the system of own resources. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Finance when processing this draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U9	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts and one inquiry. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U10	93 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 8. Next, we will be able to endorse this week's agenda. I am voting on the approval of the 8th working week agenda of the V Plenary Session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U11	There are 91 members of the Riigikogu and one abstention, no one against. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U12	Now we come to today's agenda. We have two drafts, both at second reading. I remind you of our rules of procedure. First of all, the presentation by the representative of the commission shall be up to 20 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu may then submit up to two questions to the rapporteur and the length of the question shall be one minute. After that, the negotiations will come in 5 + 3 minutes, as usual. And then we will examine the amendments. So let us go to the first item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Act of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending the Law of the bailiff and, in this connection, the Bill of Amendment of Other Laws 291. The rapporteur shall be Heljo Pikhof, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Between first and second readings, proceedings have taken place in the lead committee. I would like to add a reminder when the bill was launched. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 23 November 2020, its first reading took place on 17 February and the deadline for the amendments was 1 March. No amendments to the draft were tabled in the Riigikogu. The Ministry of Justice, as the author of the draft, presented its proposals for amending and supplementing the draft, including by letter sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs on 26 February. The draft was also the subject of written opinions and proposals by the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators, ten unsolicited bailiffs and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. All the addresses relating to the draft are published on the Riigikogu website and on the map of the draft 291. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading of the draft at its meeting on 9 March, with the participation of Mr Maret Saanküll, Head of the Office for Freedoms of the Justice Administration Department of the Ministry of Justice, Gunnar Vaikmaa, Adviser to the Office for Freedoms of the same department, and Kairit Kirsipuu, Adviser to the Court Service, members of the Board of Directors of the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptors, bailiffs Aive Kolsar and Mati Kadak, Chancellor of the Chamber Kristi Hunt, Director General of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mait Palts, Tallinn court officer Elin Vilippus and Tartu bailiff Oksana Kuchmei. Now for the amendments. As a result of this debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs initiated a total of 13 amendments, 12 of which were tabled by the Ministry of Justice and one tabled by the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators. The substantive explanations for each amendment are set out in the list of amendments annexed to the text of the second reading of the draft. The commission also made procedural decisions and proposals. In fact, the Legal Affairs Committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including on 17 March, but at the request of the Riigikogu's management board, there will be a debate in the large Chamber today and to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped; if the second reading of the draft is completed today, the draft will be submitted to the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a third reading on 24 March and then the final vote will also be held. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. The adoption of the draft act requires a majority of votes in favour of the composition of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U14	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions about this draft. Thank you! Now we have the opportunity to go to the negotiations. But it seems that there is no wish for negotiations either. In that case, we will examine these 13 amendments. Proposal No 1, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Proposal No 2, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposal from the commission of directors: take full account. Proposal No 3, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposed by the commission: take full account. Proposal No 4, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 5, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 6, as well as from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. Proposal No 7, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Proposal No 8, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, position of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 9, Commission on Legal Affairs, position of the lead committee: take full account. Proposal No 10, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposed by the commission: take full account. Proposal No 12, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposal by the commission: take full account. And the last amendment, No 13, has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal of the commission of directors: take full account. Ladies and gentlemen, We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 291. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U15	We now come to today's second item, the second reading of the Bill 296 on Amendment to the Chemicals Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Peeter Ernits, member of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U16	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you can hear me. This bill is not very extensive, one and a half pages. We discussed this at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on Monday, 8 March. The chairman said that the first reading of the draft had been completed on 17 February and that the deadline for amendments had not been reached by 4 March. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications made one proposal for an amendment by the Commission. Merike Ring of the Ministry presented the proposal and said that since this draft is expected to enter into force at the beginning of April, it is reasonable to set a later date by which § 2 and 3 will enter into force. Commission President Yoko Alender put this proposal to the vote and so it was decided to supplement § 4 of the draft text with the following wording: "Entry into force of the act. Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. May.' To clarify, as I said, this amendment has been drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The inclusion of this provision is necessary since, under the current wording of the draft, all provisions would enter into force in general terms. If we do not make this change, there may be a situation that the work of the economic activities register and Product Contact Points currently operating at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will not be able to be reorganized in time as they will be transferred to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Office. The setting of a later date of entry into force thus ensures continuity in the performance of the tasks of the economic activity register and the Product Contact Points. The Commission decided to take full account of this proposal, the decision was consensual: Yoko Alender, I, Heiki Kranich, Igor Kravchenko, Natalia Malleus, Andres Metsoja, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Siim Pohlak, Jüri Ratas and Timo Suslov. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 17 March (consensus), to propose that the second reading be closed (by consensus again) and, as is the case when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda next Wednesday, 24 March and to hold a final vote (again consensus). That's how much it was. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U17	Thank you. It seems that the good colleagues do not have any questions about the draft. Thank you! It is now possible to open negotiations if there are any candidates for this. But it seems... Yes, it is. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U18	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable fellows! Tomorrow, Tuesday, March 16th is an international social work day. This day is celebrated annually as the third Tuesday in March. In the current situation of a virus pandemic, the role of those involved in social work is essential to ensure that the necessary assistance and services are available and that they are safe for those most in need. It is very often the social workers who are directly dependent on them to cope. Today, social workers are on the front line, actually at risk of infection and worried that the infection will lead to people in care or at home, because unfortunately, the vaccine has not yet reached all the people doing this. But let's hope it gets here soon. The health crisis and the widespread spread of the virus do not allow for meetings to be held to thank you. But believe that there will be a time when we can meet face - to - face and not through the TV bridge, so that together we can rejoice that we did so together. I have said before, and I do not tire of repeating that social work is the hardest but most beautiful work in the world. That's what special people do. I believe that people working in this area agree with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U19	Helmen!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U20	I congratulate all former and today's social workers, carers and young people studying this wonderful but difficult profession on the International Social Work Day and wish you health!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U21	Good Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U22	Thank you for the work you're doing, and certainly not one day of the year! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U23	Thank you. It seems to me that the speech by our good colleague, Mrs Helmen Hunt, was intended for a free microphone, not for the draft we are dealing with. Peter Ernits, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U24	Yes, I was afraid that my chemical law regarding this Beirut cocktail had somehow gotten mixed up in social work. But I guess that's what you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U25	Yeah, another unfortunate mistake for teleworking. I guess I couldn't hear from that side that I was trying to get his attention. But let us not be disturbed. We will proceed with the procedure of Bill 296. Looks like there's no wish for negotiation. In that case, we will examine the amendment, the one that has arrived. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Since no one has any comments or a wish to vote, we have examined the amendment. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft 296 be completed. And the second reading is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U26	And now, ladies and gentlemen, all those who wish to do so have the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. The speaking time shall not exceed five minutes. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U27	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The main reason why people from Estonia's small towns and rural areas move to Tallinn is either the lack of jobs corresponding to skills or the lack of pay. According to Statistics Estonia's forecast, some 2,000 people do this every year, and by 2035 the capital and its surrounding golden circle have been raised by 58000 people who have left rural areas. Another major problem which undermines Estonia's regional life and which seems to be sustainable is the distribution of European Union funds. Namely, both Praxis and the Riigikogu Development Monitoring Centre, both the human development report and the analysis of the Ministry of Finance have all pointed out in recent years that the current way in which euro money is distributed increases regional inequality in Estonia. The problem is very simple. If there is a national application round in which everyone should apply on equal terms, and if there is a company in Valgamaa and a company in Harjumaa, for example, it is often the case that Harjumaa has more financial resources and more knowledge. He usually writes a better project, and he's more likely to get his money. And in this way, even if we do not want to, much more euro money will actually accumulate in the Tallinn region. Despite the fact that we put around EUR 200 million or more in support of regional development every seven-year European Union budget period, this money does not go against the billions that are actually going wrong at the end of the day. One of the things that we should actually do now, when the new budget period for the European Union is beginning, is that we should actually contribute to creating jobs and raising wages in small towns and rural areas. Looking at the euro money plan, it can be seen that there was not much debate in the government where to find 380 million euros, without blinking, to build a new building at the Tallinn Hospital. But if we look at how much is being invested in creating jobs in rural areas, we will see that the North East and South-East Estonia programme [for which it is foreseen] EUR 1.43 million, 360 jobs. But over 2,000 people leave a year. Okay, some of them move because of the mobility, but most of the time, there's a reason why people leave in the workplace. If, for example, we took EUR 350 million out of this European Union money and provided EUR 5 million for every municipality outside the golden circle to create jobs for the next seven years, we could create new, better paid jobs across Estonia estimated at 15,000. This would be the first time in Estonian history if the state really tried to reduce regional inequality or at least slow it down and given the opportunity to give people living outside this golden circle of Tallinn the opportunity to live, stay in their home, raise their children there, deal with what they want, so that they would not be forced to come out and find a new place of residence, because the country does not have a job that matches the skills, the working conditions are poor, or wages are paid so little that they cannot guarantee the livelihood of their family. I think that this could be our aim when we start discussing the distribution of European Union money. At least as much as we can do for people who want to live in their own home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U28	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have such an interesting and mysterious institution as the scientific council, which makes recommendations to the government on how to behave in this mad coronal crisis. I remember that at the first moments this scientific council was quite practical, and the pandemic receded quickly. But in the autumn period, after the conclusion of the agreement between Jüri Ratas and the WHO, our corona indicators rushed to the top of the world. And [so it has been] for a long time. Interestingly, no one ever knows what members of the scientific council will discuss at their meetings and what advice they will give if they agree on something. When one of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia tried to obtain data from Irja Lutsar, it ended with a fiasco. A very interesting event happened yesterday. Not yesterday, but last week. A member of the government came to me, officially a member of the government. He announced that he was sick of this current struggle against the Corona, and he gave me the protocols of the recommendations of the scientific council. Very interesting. So there are people in the government who can't talk for themselves. I will brief you on a few points from the recommendations of the Scientific Advisory Board to the government, 2 March 2021: limit the number of participants in public gatherings to six; exclude all public events in indoor and outdoor spaces; close nightclubs, casinos, cinemas, theatres and concert venues; close shopping centres; close sports clubs; limit the opening time of catering establishments to a maximum of 6 o'clock; wait for teleworking from anyone who can; and, of course, improve control over compliance with the applicable rules by involving the private sector in the agreement. That's exactly what Jüri Ratas and the WHO signed. The protocol of 23 February is also exactly the same: restrict, cancel, close, close, limit. The only thing that was not included in the recommendations was to test the use of rapid antigen tests in schools interested in it. Of course, the [recommended] continued involvement of the private sector. And now the recommendations of 8 March to the government. According to the Scientific Advisory Panel, the significant increase in infection is due both to insufficient compliance with the restrictions imposed and to the spread of the UK strain of the COVID-19 virus with greater infectivity. So, folks, you're responsible for the spread of the corona here. And the interesting thing is what the suggestion is. The recommendation is as follows: on this basis, the Scientific Advisory Panel considers that the measures already put in place are not at last sufficient to reduce the rate of infection and are time-critical to take immediate measures to minimise people-to-people contacts; according to the Scientific Advisory Board, sectoral or regional restrictions are not currently sufficient to limit the spread of infection. What is the result of this recommendation? Today, for the first time under the leadership of the Reform Party and the Centre Party, the Social Committee has dealt with the law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, which leads to the police being given the right to question persons during the Coronary Crisis, to request documents from them, to call them to the police, to apply for forced arrest, to establish identity, to apply for a stay ban, to carry out a screening of movable matters, to enter the person's possession, to detain him and to transfer him to a place of residence or stay. In fact, the police have the right to resort to direct coercion. In essence, it means searching a person, breaking into his place of residence, and conducting a search there. I wonder if they're hoping to find a coroner with a jar under the bed. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This scientific council must be dissolved and replaced by a new one because they have not carried out the tasks assigned to them. I was listening to a story this morning. A very beautiful story was "Awake, the Baltic States." Wake up! It's a really nice story.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U30	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, you've already taken advantage of your call, but still. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U31	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Chairman, thank you for giving me the opportunity to give the right speech at the right time. I was too impatient before, and all that's wrong is this again. But I believe that social workers deserve to be given such a thank-you speech for the second time, and that [it is done] in the right time and place, so that it remains on the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U32	That's what's left of the verbogram.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U33	Tomorrow, Tuesday, March 16th is an international social work day. This day is celebrated annually as the third Tuesday in March. In the current situation of a virus pandemic, the role of people doing social work is essential to ensure that people have access to services and the necessary assistance, as well as a sense of security. It is very often the social workers who are directly dependent on them to cope. Today, social workers are on the front line, actually at risk of infection and worried that the infection will lead to people in care or at home, because unfortunately, the vaccine has not yet reached all the people doing this. But let's hope it gets here soon. The health crisis and the widespread spread of the virus do not allow for meetings to be held to thank you. But believe me, there will be a time when we can meet face-to-face, and not through the TV bridge, so that together we can rejoice that we have worked together. I have said before, and I am not tired of repeating that social work is the hardest job in the world, but the most beautiful work that special people do. I believe that people working in this area agree with me. I congratulate all former and today's social workers, carers and young people studying this wonderful but difficult profession on the International Social Work Day. I wish you health! Thank you for your work, not just one day a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-15_U34	Thank you. Social workers really deserve our gratitude and recognition. Double doesn't rattle, said the old Estonians. But there are no more calls in the free microphone, so today's trial is over. Thank you!
