ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Members of the government! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start today's briefing on the day of the resistance, on the autumn solstice, and then on the car-free day. So there is a great deal to do today, 22 September 2021. And as usual, we're going to go through the presence check first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U2	32 members of the Riigikogu registered, 69 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Culture Anneli Ott and Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. And as we have become customary under the Home and Working Procedures Act, two minutes to ask, three minutes to respond. Since we have 14 pre-registered questions, good colleagues, I would like to ask you to take into account, of course, one clarification and one supplementary question, if you are interested in it, for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U3	Let's get down to business. The first question asked by the member of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder, is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Helir-Valdor Seeder is interested in the subject of electricity prices and climate policy. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U4	Good afternoon, Prime Minister. I will say right away, as an introduction, that I am not a denial of reality, and I fully accept that we have to deal with climate and environmental issues. But the question is whether the objectives are met, the means by which we are able to do so and the price we are able to pay as a society. Now we see that the consumer is beginning to feel an increase in the price on his wallet, and this is just the top of the iceberg. This whole green turn process has been very slogand. Several European Heads of State announce each other's victory about how they will complete the five-year plan in three years, or do more than the European Union's climate agreement requires of them. And you're one of those heads of state who has announced that we're going to use all the green turns on the ground. It was in the Postman on September 3. And you've been kind of calling it a pin jump. But where are we now? We have reached the point that, with the wish to bring down the market price, we have reached the point in climate policy that oil shale-based electricity boilers have been put into full operation in Estonia and that coal-based electricity is produced in Poland. This is the opposite of the objectives. And all of this eventually accumulates at the consumer's final prices, people paying for it. My first question is: do you, as Prime Minister, continue to think that everything is okay with the green turn? Are these realistic deadlines, reasonable prices, capacity for societies, and there is no need to change the EU's CO2 emissions trading policy? If you are in a different position, tell me what the government's position and proposals are to change this policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U5	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U6	First of all, I'm glad to see you're back and in good health. And kick, too. Yes, the price of electricity has risen, and this is certainly a concern, because the price of electricity is important in people's daily lives. We can't get without electricity these days. Electricity is also needed by all companies that deliver. Now, what is the reason for the increase in electricity prices? On the one hand, the reason is that there have actually been too few renewable energy sources. It has also been an exceptionally quiet summer, and there has been less hydroelectricity in Norway than usual. [This electricity] has usually brought the price down. As far as consumers are concerned, a number of consumers have entered into a fixed-price contract, which means that they are not directly affected by the exchange price, the high peaks are cut off. But they don't benefit from those moments when the price of electricity is actually negative. As far as CO2 quotas are concerned, the price of the quota has indeed risen from EUR 30 to 60. This is precisely because renewable energy capacity is actually generated. There has also been the possibility of speculating on these quotas. Now, this mechanism, which has been agreed, is basically also a tool for limiting this quota if this price increase is too steep. And this too steep price increase is when the price is more than six months more than three times higher than the average of the previous calendar year. A committee shall then be convened to assess whether to bring these auctions forward and how to reduce the price. But it hasn't been that high yet. Now, the link between climate policy and quotas and electricity prices is that there is no real need to buy a quota for renewable energy sources. Renewable energy is in any case cheaper on the market. In other words, the increase in electricity prices shows that it should invest more in renewable energy sources, because in the market situation, the cheapest electricity will enter the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U7	Let's get on with the good luck. Specific question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U8	Thank you. I understand from the answer that you do not see a problem either in climate policy or in quota trading policy. Everything is reasonable and we must bear with the increase in the price of electricity, which we feel particularly painfully in this northern land against the winter. This concerns not only ordinary consumers, but also businesses and the whole economy. I think that's where we disagree a little bit. I do think that this whole European Union policy on trading CO2 quotas, which is quite artificial, is giving us setbacks now, not only in terms of price, but also in the fact that coal and oil shale are really producing electricity and that it is competitive. This is quite the opposite result. But I also looked at some data, statistics, what the real situation of people is. Compared to electricity prices, including from 1 July to today, energy prices have risen 2.5 times since the same period last year, and that is what makes people very concerned. For example, for a 6500 kWh consuming family, this represents an additional cost of around EUR 50 per month compared to the previous year. I think it's very big. The Fatherland Party has submitted a proposal to the Government of the Republic to initiate a bill to cancel the [front-paid] renewable energy fee for consumers and to cover the renewable energy fee for producers in the form of a national budget allocation from the revenue from CO2 emission quotas received more than twice as much in the state budget. It is also proposed to eliminate increases in excise duties on fuel and electricity in the coming year. Tell me whether the Government of the Republic agrees with these proposals and with which you will come up in the budgetary procedure. Or do you disagree with these proposals, and you have some other good plan to compensate for such a sudden increase in electricity prices in the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U9	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U10	Thank you. First of all, I haven't said I don't see that it's a problem. I can see very clearly that there is a problem with the price of electricity rising. That's what I said at the beginning. I said that this is a very clear problem for both people and businesses. There's no point in putting any other words in my mouth. Now, the first thing the government does and decided yesterday is to cancel the excise increases that your government and Martin Helme have spent. You have decided that excise duties will rise on fuel, electricity and gas from 1 May 2022. That's what we decided to cancel. So with this amendment of the law, we will come to the Riigikogu and I very much ask you to support this amendment of the law. The quadruple increase in electric excise would be canceled. Now, if you look at how this price is going to happen, the price will be based on stock exchange prices, network charges, renewable energy charges and taxes. We need to look at what we can change, what we cannot change. If we're talking about the stock market price, it's gonna be on the stock market. I am a convinced supporter of the market economy. I think, as well as the figures, that it is actually possible to get cheaper electricity if we become part of a Nordic market with more renewable energy. As far as taxes are concerned, the principle currently applies that whoever consumes costs. After all, the point of the taxes is to actually make people think about how not to spend too much. When we say we're gonna pay for this part, we actually know that it's all coming out of the taxpayer's pocket. Instead of paying someone who specifically consumes electricity, someone else pays. In saying this, however, I would stress that, since the cost of both heat and electricity is a part of the cost of housing, we have income support for this, which will help to better cope with those people who have become [this cost] too high. It helps beyond those times when the price of electricity is too high.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U11	And now one more question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U12	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! Like Helir-Valdor Seeder, I am not a denial of reality, or denial of reality. I know the climate has been fluctuating on the planet Earth ever since it became a boulder from a more or less gaseous body. I know he's been fluctuating up and down, and now is not the warmest time. I also know that the increase in CO2 into the atmosphere has usually come some time later than the increase in temperature. And I also know that if we stopped all the CO2 emissions from humanity by 2050, as the target is set, the projected temperature increase of the UN climate panel would be delayed by two weeks. So the whole anti-CO crusade is completely meaningless, but terribly harmful. But it seems that you are the denial of reality. This warm and enjoyable safe place you've been thinking about yourself to, I don't really want to bother you there when you're talking about how the stock market price has made electricity cheaper for us. I suggest you go to the voters' meeting and talk about it. Or if you're talking about how I was the carrier of excise increases, I don't want to disturb you in this warm, safe place. But we came up with six different proposals that would immediately lower the price of electricity. Not the rumors that in ten years, some windmills will come, but immediately. So you did one now, it was a postponement of the excise increase. I don't understand why you can't bring it down permanently, but okay. You're going to put a mine under the next government to take office in April 2023. Then, in May 2023, taxes should rise immediately. Clever! But immediately stop trading CO2, which gives nothing, would make electricity at least half cheaper. Speaking of stock exchanges, we don't have a stock exchange. We know it's not really a stock market price, it's a manipulated price. Would you be in favour of suspending exchange trading and regulating electricity prices? And are you in favour of losing the renewable energy charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U13	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U14	Thank you. It is a good thing that you admitted, at least yourself, that you really agreed on these increases in excise duty, which were due to enter into force on 1 May 2022. But we agreed yesterday that we would come with a legislative amendment that would cancel the excise increases that you wanted to do. That's what we do. Now from the [touching] trading system of CO2. It's basically not possible to be here and there at the same time. We have made commitments regarding the Kyoto Protocol. Estonia has been a reliable country that keeps its agreements. In any case, we have also benefited greatly from the sale of CO2 quotas as a country. Can't be the beneficiary and then say no, the other way around it doesn't suit us. Now, your second proposal, the national set price. We've been in the plan economy. The national price was at the time of the second regime we actually left 30 years ago. And I am a convinced advocate of freedom, a supporter of a free market economy. The price set will certainly not achieve this result, it was another time and another rule that you desire back. So I certainly don't support that. But, as I have said, we need to anticipate ways in which the increase in electricity prices can be dealt with by those who are hardest affected. At the same time, we need to create new renewable energy capabilities, because we can see that they are power plants that can produce electricity cheaper. For our part, we have made fewer offers, [in view] that renewable energy charges will actually decrease. Energy is purchased from the person who offers the least renewable energy with the lowest price to create these opportunities. We have agreed that the country will also go to separate sources of renewable energy. This would provide without subsidies, without its renewable energy free operators with the assurance that they can make these investments and in any case have access to the market with their electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U15	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U16	Let us move on to the second question. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Indrek Saar, meets Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject is responsibility. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U17	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Prime Minister! First of all, a good autumn that will begin soon! It is no secret that there have been very many problems with Estonia's vaccination plan. As Prime Minister, you interrupted your vacation in the summer when you had received a fresh report from the National Audit Office, which said that our vaccination plan was obviously incomplete. However, the rate of vaccination has not increased since then, and if it reaches autumn this evening, the target of reaching 70% of vaccination has not been met. Similarly, we are very far from the goal that 80+ people, for whom there is a very high risk of corona, would have been vaccinated by at least 80%. Of these, only 67% have been vaccinated, although this was to be achieved in the spring of summer. But we have autumn. This means that 26000 people who are not vaccinated in this age group are at all times at an additional risk and for very many it means going to hospital. And many of those who go to the hospital when they're infected with the Corona are suffering very serious health damage when they come back from the hospital, or they don't come back at all. Our corona statistics are incomplete, as has been shown. We may not draw the right conclusions from this. For example, in recent weeks, corona infections have grown exponentially among children and young people. We are very far from what the Nordic countries are doing today, who are losing restrictions, because they have done a good job of vaccination and, as a result, there is much less stress and tension in society. How do you feel about someone being responsible for not being far from where we'd like to be with our vaccination plan? And what is that responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U18	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U19	Thank you. There's a saying that the gods laugh when people make plans. Plans have to be made, of course, but the plan itself doesn't vaccinate anyone. These plans have been made, these plans have been changed. But really, just as you have done today, when we are in the fall, we have not achieved this stated goal. What are the reasons? We've had a lot of different stages of vaccination. At first, the problem was that there were people who wanted it, but there weren't enough vaccines. Then we had to focus very clearly on older people, at risk groups, to get them vaccinated, to get them just protected. When we had more vaccines, we created opportunities to vaccinate in large vaccination centres, but it was clear that older people in particular wanted a more personalised approach through their family doctors. At some point, vaccination increased greatly, as younger people who wanted to be vaccinated wanted protection, wanted to travel, took advantage of this opportunity. In fact, vaccination has stopped everywhere in the world, but we have just stopped at a different level, and that is definitely a problem. What have we done? We have created a wide range of additional vaccinations, such as ad hoc vaccination points near home. We have individually traded another dose of Janssen's vaccine on loan because people are asking for one dose of vaccine. We have created opportunities to vaccinate at employers, we have created opportunities to vaccinate in schools, the list is long. But what's the big problem? In fact, those people who, as if in words, are fighting for freedom are precisely the people who are preventing our society from being free. We have a lot of people against vaccines. We have involved behaviorologists in order [to receive advice] on how to get to people. Basically, there are three groups of unvaccinated people. There are people who are clearly anti-vaccine, people who are terrified of the hesitants, and there are people who are simply hesitant. What are these reasons? I'll probably be able to talk later about what are the reasons to stop them from vaccinating. But how do we proceed with these concerns? We have a former objective, and we still want to move towards that goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U20	Specific question, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U21	Prime Minister! I asked you if anyone was responsible for this situation, and if so, how. In your description of what all of you have prevented us from moving ahead with the vaccination program and vaccinating people, you've described a whole series of things. Since there were no vaccines at first, it was in the same state throughout Europe. You admitted that the vaccination centres did not actually work as we expected, so it was a mistake. But you finally got to the point that people don't want to vaccinate. I ask you to clarify: do you think that the people of Estonia and their attitude are to blame for the fact that our vaccination is low, or that the government has made some mistakes in this whole vaccination and in this whole fight against this whole corona crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U22	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U23	Thank you. Most people are very responsible. I dare assure you that, in this crisis too, when we had restrictions, most people, without knowing the restrictions, actually spared the lives of a very large number of people, in keeping with these restrictions. And just like that, most people are [currently] responsible. If we now have a single dose of 749256 people vaccinated, these are all very responsible people. And I'm not saying that those who have not been vaccinated have not. But that's why we've been sitting down with behaviorologists, [to discuss] what's the problem with these people. And actually, the main reason they're bringing in is because they're scared, they're afraid of the vaccine side effects. Only people with medical education can take this fear down. That is why we have created opportunities for these people to call those who are still hesitating and to answer their questions, which of them should be more afraid, either of staying in this disease or of the side effects associated with the vaccine. And medical students have come with us. Another reason that comes from not being vaccinated or hesitated is that the vaccine does not give me enough protection anyway. Again, it can only be dealt with by a person with medical education. What I say or some other politician says doesn't work because it's not as reliable as the doctor says. And when we look, we have some 13% of these people among the Estonian-speaking population, who hesitate. 11% are clearly anti-vaccine. Among other languages, this percentage is, in fact, even higher, who hesitate. This work therefore needs to be continued. Why did I list these reasons? These are objective reasons. And I'm not saying this list presenting that the government has not made any mistakes in the process. I can't say that in any way. This has been a new process, has been a very complicated process and, of course, mistakes have been made during this process, which could have been non-existent. But again, from the back, we're all smart. The main focus now is to still get enough vaccination so that we can be sure that our hospital network will survive. This work needs to be continued. There is a whole new team in the Ministry of Social Affairs who thinks a lot of things out of the box and brings ideas on how we can move on with this thing to the same level as the Nordics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U24	And now one more question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U25	Thank you. The two-minute question time does not allow you to read out all the confusion in the Korona area of Tanel Kiige's administration, whether it be vaccines destroyed in a cold warehouse for millions of euros, mixed restrictions, problems of school organisation, promoting false security in the form of so-called 'corona passports', vaccination difficulties, etc. After all, the report by the State Secretary's working group or committee made it very clear that all this organisation is below any criticism and level where it was not even possible to identify those responsible. As the Secretary of State said, all the participants have run through the bar. And if it's so systemic, then it's elementary that the chief executive takes responsibility. And here's my particular question. A few months ago, I quote, your government minister, Tanel Kiik, said: "When we reach 69.9%, there is one situation. However, if this level is not achieved clearly, it is, of course, my responsibility. "This is an exact quote from the announcement by the Minister of Health and Labour of Tanel Kiig a few months ago. Today we are in a situation where this level is clearly below this level, with the proportion of two doses of vaccine being 60%. Yeah, it's starting to get darker here, they say, well, with one shot, it's going to be [gives into account], and it's going to be 66%. But the full vaccination rate is 60%, i.e. clearly below [target]. And given all the prior confusion and the number of people [from work] have been released or resigned in this area of government, I ask: what is the responsibility of the Minister for Health and Labour? Who is responsible and what is his responsibility according to your understanding? You're the prime minister of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U26	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U27	Thank you. The Minister of Health and Labour is responsible for health and work. That's the government's deal. It's his responsibility. This, of course, includes all issues relating to vaccination. This includes the problems encountered in the health crisis. Now, this has been an exceptionally difficult time. The last year and a half has been a novelty for everyone. And actually, this whole crisis has been very dynamic, coming up with new strains, coming up with new reactions, etc., etc. Now, those things you list, like this cold store thing. This is exceptionally ugly, extremely regrettable, indeed a cluster bump, as the Secretary of State called it. In 2017, very many people have actually made mistakes, there has been a customer making mistakes, the builder has made mistakes, the designer has made mistakes, construction supervision has made mistakes, the Health Board has made mistakes, the Agency has made mistakes, the State Real Estate Company has also made mistakes. That's why there's a lot of people in charge. In 2017, Tanel Kiik was not the Minister of Health and Labour and to blame it all on him, it seems to me, is in some ways somewhat unfair. If these things have happened years before he became a minister, he can't be held responsible. But, of course, for everything, both for the organisation of vaccination and for the proposals for the COVID crisis, Tanel Kiik has stood and is still standing, so that we can achieve [the objective]. You talk about these numbers like they're just numbers. These are not numbers, these are people, these are real people who have concerns about vaccination. They have fears about vaccination and need to be dealt with one by one. It's not gonna wake up those numbers. The last job is really hard. Our problem is that we have remained at a very low level or a lower level than in some other countries. There are different reasons. But that doesn't mean you can throw a spoon in the corner and not deal with it. This needs to be dealt with further. The new team of the Ministry of Social Affairs actually very much thinks out of the box, has come up with new solutions to achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U28	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U29	Let's move on to question three. It has been presented by Henn Põllaas, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the topic is the increase in electricity prices. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U30	Thank you. Much of Estonia's people were shocked when they received electricity bills in September. This, however, is a joke compared to what hits them in October and beyond. Repeating the rise in electricity bill, and as a result, all other prices will lead our people to the brink of disaster. Last week, you said in Question Time that Estonian households are wealthy and that the effect of price increases on them is small. And whoever's poorer, let him ask for social security. This is an extremely cynical, humiliating and deceitful suggestion. It's not like you're gonna ask for help, and you're gonna get it. I got a call from an 80-year-old lady whose pension is 500 euros and who was hit very hard by the increase in electricity prices. On your recommendation, he went to the Social Services to ask for help. In reply, it was said that the remaining amount of its public utility costs, some EUR 130 per month, i.e. the circa four euros per day, is sufficient to survive. Don't count on help. I recall that we have 270000 people living in relative poverty, whose household member's income is less than EUR 611. And over 30,000 people live in absolute poverty, which means that their household member's income is less than 221 euros per month. 221 euros a month! Do hundreds of thousands of pensioners and people living below the poverty line, nearly a quarter of the Estonian people, have to stifle in cold and dark or even starve to death because of the ignorance, neglect and irresponsible and wrong political decisions of you and your government? What do you say to all these people? Because they're not just numbers, they're people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U31	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U32	Thank you. As I have said here many times, the rise in electricity prices is certainly a problem and this problem needs to be addressed. That is why we agreed yesterday at the coalition that we would cancel the increase in the electricity excise duty agreed by the EKRE from 1 May 2022, as you had planned. I really don't think this is the right way. This excise duty certainly does not have to be quadrupled at the moment. Now, as far as income support is concerned, it is a problem that we have people who cannot cope with their incomes. This is why income support for these people is. The general formula for calculating income support is that [to be taken into account] income limit plus housing costs minus income. The Riigikogu establishes its subsistence limit each year. So the Riigikogu can draw this border where it is. In 2021, the subsistence limit is 150 euros per month for a person living alone and 150 euros for the first member of the family. It increases according to how many members are in the family. The good news is that the pension will increase next year according to indexation. In fact, many subsidies are also growing so that people can still cope. Income support is intended specifically for severe cases where the end does not come to an end. I do not agree with you in any way that the government is condescending to this. On the contrary, we are reviewing all the possibilities that we can do to help these people pay their costs. One of the options in the long term, when you look at global policies, when you look at European trends, is that we are creating more production capacities that use different energy sources that can be used at different times precisely to ensure that the price actually stays at a normal level and that people and businesses can pay it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U33	And here's a very specific question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U34	Thank you. That future-oriented pink fog of yours isn't helping people who are in trouble today, not one gram. The disaster is getting worse. But the rise in electricity prices is not only a problem for our people, but it is very painful for our entire business sector. As the price of electricity in Estonia is one of the most expensive in Europe, in addition to the fact that our competitiveness is falling at global level, it will fall in the same way in the European Union, where our main trading partners are. The result is a wave of bankruptcies and the backwardness and impoverishment of our society. The government has refused, as we have heard now, to take any measures that would immediately and quickly alleviate this situation and has not agreed to abandon or postpone its green plans. EKRE has proposed six ways to bring down the price of electricity immediately, but you will not listen to it. All you're talking about is some sort of Kremlin propaganda tube, like a broken phonograph, like EKRE was raising excise duty. On the contrary, we have humiliated, so forget about it! But I want to ask you how and if the government is going to bring the country out of this disaster at all. How does the government intend to help our economy, and not in the future, or with any utopian technologies that do not yet exist, or with green energy that is not absolutely stable and cannot be used in industry? What do you say to our entrepreneurs? How are they supposed to survive in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U35	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U36	Thank you. The fact is that your proposal by the Minister of Finance and yours will actually raise excise duties next year. That's the law. You cannot deny that there is a law that you have initiated and adopted that excise duties will quadruple next May, 1 May 2022. In order for this not to happen, indeed, it has a great effect on both people and businesses, so that excise duty on fuel, for example, does not rise four times as you planned it, we have agreed in the coalition that we will come up with an amendment to the law that will cancel the increase in excise duty that you planned. These are the facts you can't disprove, even if you're using very hard demagogue techniques and all kinds of stickers you're trying to put on me. Now, you're saying you've come up with six ways in which the price of electricity would go right down. The fact is that if you look into your proposals, it is clear that complex problems cannot be solved by simple solutions. They just don't work. It seems to me that, in your opinion, Estonia, with its 1.3 million inhabitants, with its economy, is living alone on an island from the rest of the world, but in fact, that is not the case. The key to Estonia's success has been that we have been an open economy, we have been a country with a liberal market economy, we have been a reliable country that keeps its promises and agreements. And that's what we're gonna do. We have also been a very forward-looking country. If you look at what is going to happen in all energy, you really [must] take these steps to be part of this green turn so that it benefits both our businesses and our people. We must be on board, and precisely so that we have more renewable energy capacity. Why? What are expensive now? Carbon-rich energy sources are expensive, but not renewable energy sources. Consequently, more renewable energy capacity must be created to get cheaper electricity, because the wind, the sun, the flowing water, does not in some ways cost anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U37	And now one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kaja Kallas! First of all, let me congratulate you in the Norstat week's poll on your second prize after the EKRE. This is the most direct consequence of your incessant defamatory information operations and lying, of your wrestling. And that's what you're doing right now. But since we have a question about the price of electricity, let me give you a vital example. The vital example concerns the pellet. I'm heating my house with a pellet, and compared to spring, the price of the pellet has risen by 20% in the last month. 20%! How painful do you think this is gonna hit people's wallets? Still very painful, because the pellet is bought not once in the winter, but probably a ton and then another ton, and then another ton and a ton. So think before you start talking here about some kind of corporate support and so on! Have you calculated how much it costs to the state budget to pay compensation for people's electricity bills, to pay income support? You certainly haven't calculated it, you don't know how to calculate it. That's one question. Now, you're saying you're pushing local governments to pay income support. Have you bought your bones for soup kitchens yet? And how much does it cost the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U39	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U40	Thank you. Truth and mathematics are not your strengths. Even in the case of ratings, which you very respect and which you are probably following, there is no way to say that you have risen to the first and we have fallen to the second. It's just not true. However, based on the percentage of aid, no decisions can be made either. We are now in the situation that when we came to the government, we inherited a whole series of different problems that we have to deal with now. One of these is the same increase in excise duty that you planned from 1 May 2022. And I have to hand it to you in the sense that you've really tried... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I must give you credit for the fact that you have really managed to speak in the media as we intend to increase excise duties. But the fact is that these excise duties will be raised on the proposal of your Finance Minister, Martin Helme, from 1 May 2022. Such a law has been brought here by you, such a law has been passed by you just so that it may rise from May 1st. Now, we in the government have agreed that we will change this law and we will cancel these excise increases. Now, with regard to fuel prices in general, excise duties have a similar share. And once again, you decided to quadruple the excise duties from 1 May 2022, but that's what we're canceling. There will be no such increase in excise duty. Now, when we look at this general picture, after the corona crisis or societies have opened up, the economies have opened up, the prices of inputs have risen very much everywhere. Businesses even tell me that sometimes they get phone calls, that the price, even on construction materials, rises three times a day. It's a very big problem. These price increases are very high and affect everyone. On the other hand, Estonian entrepreneurs have also been very resourceful and have found their niche and also benefited from these price increases. This concerns the rapid supply of different products and services. And there has been one key to the fact that Estonian society has been so open that the economy has been able to recover quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U42	Let us move on to question five. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, to which Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers. The subject is the provision of national information to limit the spread of the kroon virus. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U43	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You spoke in response to Mr Saare's question about everything that has prevented it from reaching its stated [target] regarding vaccination. [You also have] so far that people are quite guilty, also because of ignorance. You have actually received the help of a medical doctor, Jaak Uibo, who has written a public letter and proposed a national COVID-19 factsheet. I quote from this letter because apparently not all people have been able to read it electronically. "Estonia's infection information shows that 2072 cases of infection fell to the first half of 2020 and more than 105,000 to the first half of 2021. Thus, between the years there is fifty times the predominance, with the same politician, Tanel Kiik, serving as Minister of Health. " End of quote. The letter states that in such a situation it is time to systematise itself and the world's information about the corona and make it known in the form of regular COVID-19 national information for the population. And there are even recommendations: the text should be short, understandable and collective intelligence-enhancing, expressing clear views, raising doubts as to suspicion, availability on paper and, of course, the possibility of regularly updating and updating information. Have you been able to read this letter, and are you planning to act in the light of this letter? It seems reasonable, especially in a situation where the same letter from the doctor of medicine states that it should actually have been issued a long time ago. The Law of Obligations Act, which entered into force in 2002, provides the basis for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U44	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U45	Yes, I have read the proposal for this letter and, of course, there are very many sensible proposals. Just like Winston Churchill said, a lie goes halfway around the world before the truth gets its pants on. Reaching people with the right information, reaching people with the truth is very difficult. Again, I am referring to the fact that, by listing these objective facts, I do not want to say that this is the fault of these circumstances. I don't want to say we couldn't have done any better. But we're in the situation where we are. Does giving additional information to people using this COVID national leaflet make them vaccinate more? I'm afraid... I have spoken to behavioural scientists, and they say that we are now in a situation where those people who have stayed, who are still hesitating, in fact, in their case, a much more personalised approach is needed, especially by people with medical education. Making an information sheet that overturns the myths that are presented and where people with medical education provide reasons why one or the other thing is not true or how things really are, how this COVID is, that's what we're actually working on. This is also what employers have asked for in the context of vaccination. That there are a lot of fears, a lot of misconceptions or myths, give us a simple place where we can get this information so we can share it with them. But on the other hand, it can be said that there is a lot of information in itself, and when I read the feedback that people have been asked about, there is also one complaint that there is too much information, too much that numbers talk from all sides. I very much agree with you that messages must be clear and simple. They are more credible when presented by a person with medical education and this information is available from one place. It should definitely also be on the crisis.ee page when this information material is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U46	And now for a more specific question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U47	Thank you very much. I agree with you that there is a great deal of information. And often this information is very contradictory even at the level of government members, through their mouths. While we were sitting in the Social Affairs Committee, members of your party, being in opposition, thus both the position and the seat were different, felt that it was very important to bring such information to each mailbox during the first wave in both Estonian and Russian. The preliminary view of the government is that it is enough to talk about it only through the internet. For some strange reason before the elections, whether local or Riigikogu elections, the mailboxes are filled with information on the paper page in a very, very large number, no one can rely solely on the Internet. I continue to believe that if there were a national factsheet, as the medical doctor has proposed, it would certainly raise more confidence than the different messages from different ministers. That's one thing. Another thing is that everything that has happened in the meantime, from the Health Board, could be said, even from a hot warehouse, not from a cold warehouse, nor has it increased people's confidence in vaccination. Quite the opposite. There have also been doubts that vaccines that have been injected and are not just crown virus vaccines may have been damaged or damaged. Parents are concerned because there was also a large number of vaccines that may have perished and were intended for young children. We have not actually received an answer to whether these vaccines have all been replaced. Family doctors are already changing the vaccination schedules, and I know a lot of parents who have said that they are not going to vaccinate their children now because they doubt the quality of the vaccines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U48	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U49	Thank you. First of all, the national information material concerning these myths, we are working on it. Secondly, when I found out about this health warehouse case, my first question was whether it has been happening for a long time and whether there may be a risk that some things have gone bad and we have actually used vaccines or medicines that have not been kept in accordance with [the requirements]. But I was assured that this was not the case. Now, all these vaccines there really weren't COVID vaccines, there were other vaccines, other medicines. COVID vaccines were kept by a private company which had the relevant conditions due to the fact that they were a pharmaceutical company. Now, all these vaccines and the drugs that were there, they're not being used. They went on write-off. It's a real shame. Now, the next question you had, and I also had, is whether we're going to have problems with neonatal vaccination, problems with infant vaccination. In this regard, too, I was given assurance that it would not occur. If there is a need, we can also borrow vaccines from our neighbouring countries, so in any case, this vaccination plan will go on exactly as it has done so far. There's no break in there. So I would like to say, in this regard, that fears have been removed and I would like to confirm that the medicines and vaccines that are currently being used have been properly maintained. They're certainly not spoiled in any way. You shouldn't be afraid of that. If necessary, if there are fears or questions about it, you can also contact your healthcare professional. But in any case, vaccination is rather worth protecting your children from serious illness. We know that more and more people decide not to vaccinate their children against very serious diseases every year. And as a result, we have a real risk of spreading diseases that we thought were long gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U50	And now one more question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! First, I'd correct your lie. This overheating took place in these cold stores at 21 to 23. On 30 June and the last batch of COVID vaccine were dispatched from that same warehouse on 25 June. These reports have been forwarded to me by the Minister of Health and Labour, and I have all these lists. But to my question. You have repeatedly pointed out here that vaccinees are less likely to be infected with COVID and vaccinated with COVID more easily. You did it last week, right here in Question Time. And when I asked you here last week for specific figures, what percentage is it, how much is it likely to be less infected and more likely to suffer, and what these data are based on, you promised me in this very hall that you would send this data to my e-mail. It's been exactly a week today, and until then, no data has been sent to me. When will you send me this information? When will you fulfill your promise to your people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U52	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U53	Thank you. I'm sorry if they haven't gotten to you! Personally, I haven't dealt with sending it, but I hope you get these materials today. Now, when we look at hospital admission with COVID-19 according to vaccination, it is very different depending on the age group, but these tables show exceptionally well that vaccination works especially among older people, 80+ people. More than 20% of those in the hospital have been vaccinated, so 80% of those in the hospital have not been vaccinated. And at the expense of the disease, these vaccines also protect older people. Younger people don't end up in a hospital. Now that we're looking at death cases, the first, second and third waves, 2% of all those who got sick died during the first wave. 2% of all died! During the second wave, 0.95% died and during the third wave this percentage is 0.31. In fact, it has been decreasing all the time and [behind] it is certainly the level of vaccination. And if we look at the number of deaths in the case of hospitalized people, again, to illustrate that vaccinated people are also more prone to serious illness, [I say] that in fact, the percentage of deaths in the case of hospitalized people was 10% and 17% during the first wave and during the second wave, but during the third wave it has been 7.2%. Let me remind you, there were no vaccinees in the first and second waves. I'll tell you about the vaccination that if we had fewer vaccinees, there were more serious cases that ended. But today, we're sending these tables.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U54	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U55	Let's move on to question six. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Rene Kokk, corresponding to the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. The subject is what is happening with the Rural Promotion Foundation. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister for Rural Affairs! The rural entrepreneurs are quite concerned about what's going on about the MES. The Rural Promotion Foundation has been a very good partner for rural entrepreneurship. Why don't you open up what are the main concerns that the former leaders of the MES are accused of misbehaving with money? When I read your article, it has been turned into political again, against ministers, as if ministers had taken any wrong steps. But ministers don't run the MES directly. Please open those backgrounds! What is the real problem for which the MES is specifically highlighted today, for example, [differently] from KredEx? There are problems in KredEx. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U57	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U58	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Indeed, on 15 September, we received information that the Central Criminal Police had apprehended Raul Rosenberg and Madis Reinup, members of the Management Board of the MES as suspected of a crime. The essence of this so-called suspicion is, I quote, that I would not be wrong, it is public information that they are suspected of violating the obligation to respect the state's financial interests, i.e. the abuse of trust. This concerns a loan of EUR 24 million to at least 42 companies. This actually means that [Central Criminal Police] suspects that they have abused their powers in this context and that they have received loans from companies that should not have been subject to this regulation. I'm sure it's clearly damaged the reputation of the MES. On that day, when we found out that such a suspicion had been raised, I, as Minister, proposed to the Council to meet exceptionally and temporarily suspend the contracts of the [their] members of the Governing Board. The Council met, there was a long debate, and the President of the Council, Andres Oopkauba, was given the power to suspend the agreements. And if it turns out that suspects disagree with the suspension of the contract, they must be recalled. As far as I know, the board members have been recalled. The following point in the Council Decision was that an additional member of the board should be appointed, and it is also designated Support for rural areas must not come into a situation where the foundation is unable to work. In this respect, I agree with you that the MES, as a foundation, is certainly extremely important for rural entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U59	Specific question, René Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U60	Thank you. I understand that the elections are coming, and any propaganda is good to show the opponent his place, but I beg you not to involve former ministers. Let the management of the MES take responsibility for their actions. There is no need to spin all the time by perhaps being the wrong guidelines for former ministers. But I want to ask you this: can you confirm here today that the MES will continue on the same course as the new leaders and, to your knowledge, this whole process is not [started] to merge the MES with KredEx and simply weaken rural funding and support in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U62	Honourable questioner! When we are talking about criticism in this context, I have not specifically hidden the fact that the fact that so much money was given to the MES at the same time certainly caused them a problem. And that guideline was clearly political. You can't argue with that. This was also demonstrated by the volume of work that the credit committee and all of these people had to do, and additional work and overtime had to be done. I'm sure it's grounded. And it is not a special feature of Estonia; it is a certain practice. Perhaps the first phase could have been much more focused and tried to solve the problems of companies that were clearly attacked in the first wave. Now the other part of the question, which concerns the possible combination of secret operation, KredEx and EAS. Today, neither the Cabinet nor the Government has provided any such guidance to unite the Rural Promotion Foundation and KredEx. True, the merger of EAS and KredEx has been discussed as a guideline. This should include an assessment of the number of services or products which are distinctly identical between the two institutions and which do not make sense to duplicate. This will certainly be discussed during this analysis. But neither I nor the government have discussed that we should specifically join the organisation you mentioned at this stage of the MES.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U63	And now one more question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U64	Good manager and minister! On 6 April 2018, more than three years ago, as a member of the Riigikogu, you sent three questions to Tarmo Tammele, then Minister of Rural Affairs. Does the foundation do the right thing when it conceals information from members of the Riigikogu which companies are granted loan guarantees under which conditions? Second: Does the use of public money need to be clear and transparent? And the third: could this behaviour of the foundation lead to a risk of corruption? I don't have time to talk here, but Tarmo Tamm said yes, so and so, but it's not really like that. And my question to you: it has been over three years since you had the impression of a member of the Riigikogu of the behaviour of the then MES leaders and the reply of the then Minister for Rural Affairs? You were worried about what's come true now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U65	Thank you, honourable member of the Riigikogu. With regard to the activities of the foundation, as well as the use of taxpayers' money, things must be transparent. As a result, the National Audit Office pointed out last autumn that these things are not quite in order there. The question arises as to why they did not react at all. This audit [summary], which I received as a minister from the National Audit Office this year, forced us to examine and change certain things. And as a result, the discussion with the Council of the MES, the Ministry and the members of the board took ten steps, which must be carried out in order to clarify all the above points and to give the public a sense of security in this context as well. But you have to understand [one thing]. If we recall the crisis that arose when a rural minister in one government lost the trust of the Prime Minister at the time, but the Minister of Finance appointed him to the same MES Council, then you will understand that transparency and clarity were very difficult to ensure. The other thing is that, as a new government and as a member of the new government, I, Urmas Kruuse, decided to reduce political pressure in the Council. Some members were therefore replaced, recalled, and replaced by experts, whether as representatives of the University of Life Sciences or as representatives of certain agricultural organisations. These have all been steps to achieve [this objective]. But I agree that the reputation of the MES has been severely damaged at the moment and, in the public eye, it has to be dealt with in order to regain confidence. It is important that businesses continue to receive the support they are used to, on the one hand, asking for assistance, and, on the other hand, it is important that the new projects needed in rural areas receive funding in one way or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U66	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U67	And let's move on. The seventh question is from Priit Sibula, a member of the Riigikogu. Answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the subject is the organisation of vaccination. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U68	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! I will continue with the same subject we discussed last week. I understand very well that we are not just talking about numbers, but people are behind these numbers. But I'm talking about the goals that your government has set as targets. Yesterday, there was a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee where we once again received an overview of the fight against the COVID. And I dare confirm my assessment last week and the words that Minister Tanel Kiik is very eloquent, but we in the Committee on Social Affairs have long since not allowed ourselves to be put to sleep with this so-called "spoof of speech." In fact, action is needed. I have a question. 70% was set as a target and, as Helir-Valdor Seeder pointed out before, in the summer Tanel Kiik himself said that if this percentage is lower than 69,9, it is a matter of his political responsibility. We know that coverage is currently 66% and that 60% of adults are fully vaccinated. Who do you think did what wrong and what responsibility should be borne? That objective should have been achieved. What do you think [wrongly went]? You've given yourself, I can't say opposite answers, actually one-way. You have said that you certainly do not support campaigns, but you have set a target of 70%. And I do not understand what the responsible Minister for Health and Labour has done or what guidance you have given him so that this objective can be realized, which you yourself have set.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U69	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U70	Thank you. Yes, as has already been answered, indeed today we will not achieve this objective. The objective must always be ambitious in order to pursue it. I've already listed what we've done. In fact, if you look at all this time, there have been very different stages of vaccination. There was a moment where there were no vaccines, but then the vaccines came, and then there was really a campaign to come and vaccinate yourself right now, because now it's an opportunity, in these places it's an opportunity. It didn't work at any point. When it was summer, we used these possibilities that people actually move around and the vaccination moves where people are, and so actually, a lot of people had to be vaccinated. Why am I saying that behind these numbers, the people are behind these goals? It is precisely because the persuasion of the last people who hesitate and who are around 13% of the Estonian-speaking population, with about 30% of the other-speaking population, with the persuasion of these people, requires much more work to answer these questions, because the first answer to these people is why they have not vaccinated is that they have fears. They are afraid of vaccine-related side effects and the fears of side effects cannot be taken down by any minister. It must be a person with medical education who people trust and believe. That is why this last effort actually takes a lot of time. Now, when it comes to positive matters, the vaccination coverage rate of 70% has been reached in 25 municipalities, the age group 60+ coverage rate of at least 80% has been reached in 36 municipalities. Yeah, that's not enough. We have two major concerns, firstly Ida-Viru County and secondly Võru County. And, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs has set these targets in the vaccination plan, but if we fail today this deadline does not mean that we will not continue to act on it from tomorrow, we will not try to find new ways to protect people. We will continue to deal with this and in the same way the Minister of Health and Labour, who is responsible for this with his new team.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U71	And here's a very specific question. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U72	Thank you. It still seems to me that you've let this fluent lora put you to sleep. In fact, it is not possible to understand in concrete terms what these activities have been. You rightly said right now that the Minister can start a new team. Really, we know that the Head of the Health Board is about to leave the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Head of the Medicines Agency has left, the Head of TEHIC has written his resignation. I don't know exactly if it's on your hump or as a result of an independent human action. However, on 3 August you yourself have confirmed that you gave the Secretary of State, I do not know whether or not to ask him to call the chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs and inform him that he does not wish to continue with the chancellor. As far as I'm concerned about government management and logic, what you can or should do is deal with Tanel Kiige. His resignation should be taken to Kadriorg. But you said last week that the release of the Tanel Swing wouldn't change anything, that would be pointless. If it doesn't matter who's in charge in the Ministry of Tanel Kiige, why did you replace the chancellor in his administration? And have these other leaders left voluntarily, or are there pressure behind you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U73	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U74	Thank you. The team of the Ministry of Social Affairs is drawn up by two ministers in the Ministry of Social Affairs: the Minister of Social Protection and the Minister of Health and Labour. They also share the chancellor. And it was their suggestion that the chancellor would not continue in his seat and put together a new team. That I spoke to the Secretary of State about it was the question of whether this information had reached the Chancellor, and I communicated the information that was then known. Now, to think about it, it's true what you said that a lot of people have changed. I believe that this crisis has been very difficult for the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Their shoulders have been very heavy, and many have not been able to deal with it. But many have left for other reasons. The important thing is that there is now a very good and capable team in the Ministry of Social Affairs. I really see it in government office sessions, where they really try to think out of the box of different solutions, how we can move forward, for example, how we move forward with the administration of efficiency doses and additional doses to those people whose immunity is weaker. We can see that people in nursing homes have started to get sick because they have less immunity. How to protect these people quickly, this team will have to work on it. And like I said, it's getting harder and harder to convince people. Another thing that is certainly better than us in the Nordic countries is that there is no such very strong 'freedom struggle' against vaccines, [there are not many] those who work against them. But we have people here in the Riigikogu who are calling for insubordination and everything that they actually agree with when moving abroad, in Europe and elsewhere. All of this actually works against achieving these objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U75	And now one more question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U76	Thank you, good speaker! Prime Minister! First of all, I'd like to clarify one thing. When you and Mart Helme were debating here earlier, he drew attention to the second most prized landing of [your party] in the Norati weekly poll. A week in the poll, not in the aggregates! You must be less informed then than a number of members of the Riigikogu. Embarrassing! But while you were debating here with Indrek Saare, [the answer] to his question was clear to me that you have decided to support Tanel Kiike in every way. And with that, of course, you take on political responsibility. Everything that has been done badly or wrong in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs or not done by Tanel Kiig is now your responsibility as you protect him. Yesterday, with a completely open text, the Social Affairs Committee presented the plans of the Ministry of Social Affairs to legalise the compulsory vaccination. There is talk of activities and various legislative changes that will give people more vaccinations. Before you said here, people have fears. I'd say you're really scaring me. This intimidation by firing people, which we do have in the military, though in the police, is what you fear among teachers, and its natural reaction is the struggle for freedom, as you called it. Indeed, there is no need for this fight for freedom in the Nordic countries, because if we look at Denmark, for example, then the government does not deal with twisting, twisting, slandering, naming and threatening people. But I'm asking you, if we strongly promote the third dose here, it doesn't increase coverage. If an additional injection is given to people who have already been vaccinated, this does not change the number of people vaccinated in society. What are these alternative plans in addition to vaccination? What will the government do to cope better with the corona?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U77	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U78	Thank you. First of all, you seem very excited about your ratings, so much happiness! Congratulations on that! But I have to admit that I do not have time to follow these ratings, because there is a lot of work and decisions to make and decisions may not always be popular. Now, it's very interesting how your rhetoric has changed in time. When I take and look at what you're saying right now and what you said when you were in government, it's different from each other like night and day. You said that when you went to Italy, I quote: "In Italy, it was very natural to demand a korona passport, and everyone agreed, while life boiled. " And in Estonia you say: " Of course, people must refuse to present this health pass. Now, that's what I was talking about a few weeks ago, that civil insubordination. Service providers must refuse to ask for it and service providers must refuse to show it. " End of quote. How is it that you're like a lamb in Italy? You're saying everything's going well, you're presenting a corona pass, everything's going well. But in Estonia, you say you cannot do that. Your position will change greatly as a result of whether you are in or out of government. I'm not going to read all these quotes here. We don't have a forced vaccination, don't say that! We don't have a forced vaccination. We have the possibility for employers to carry out a risk analysis in different institutions in order to reduce the spread of infectious disease and to take appropriate measures. All right, I don't know, wearing facial masks, whether it's keeping distance, whether it's moving people at different workplaces to ensure that people's health is safe, so they don't get sick. It has been a major concern for businesses that in a situation where the vaccine did not yet exist, entire production lines went out of line. Their work was very disturbed by the fact that they were not guaranteed that people's health was in order. By now, these tools have been designed, but no one is being coerced. If we were to have a forced vaccination, we would have been 100% vaccinated and we would not be talking today about failure to meet any targets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U79	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U80	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by the member of the Riigikogu Ivari Padar, answer by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. The issue is the situation at the Rural Promotion Foundation. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U81	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Actually, I got the answer to my question already. If we were talking about whether the Rural Promotion Foundation would be merged with KredEx, then your answer was very clearly 'no'. You didn't say if it was possible that KredEx would be merged with the Rural Promotion Foundation, which would be one option of course. Speaking of the Rural Promotion Foundation, I have had the honour of being a minister at his birth when he was made. He has been very stable in serving Estonian agriculture and rural life until he came to the power of EKRE. It is now that, in this situation, the Rural Promotion Foundation has been financed from a wide variety of sources, and it has increased its own revenues. During this period, the Rural Development Foundation (RED) will probably have 45 million of its financial resources to use through the RDP. Now that the strategy plan and new opportunities for the European Union are under discussion this autumn, to what extent are the financial resources planned to be channelled to the Rural Promotion Foundation in the new period?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U82	Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U83	Honorable member of the Riigikogu! Indeed, we agree with you that the foundation has been operating for 30 years and that it has been very successful in this respect when looking at two aspects. One is how important this has been for rural enterprises. This is shown by the number of applications for different periods. Secondly, it has also been able to be in such a financial positive light, which means that this year we had the opportunity to use these funds to pay up some 3.8 million additional aid for the crisis. Now the second part of [the question] when we talk about the future period. In essence, you are right that the Rural Development Foundation is one of the institutions that mediate certain rural development programme measures, which will assist in the distribution of certain crisis measures. But what are the exact amounts, it actually becomes clear when we have all the strategy plans agreed and know exactly what the volumes of the various measures are. Then we can finally say what these planned volumes are for the next period. We are actually working within the framework of the so-called 'transition period' and it will continue for the next year. The new implementation period will start administratively from 2023, although, yes, during the transitional period, the resources for the new period can be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U84	And now the first point to be clarified. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U85	Thank you. I have a small request that you give the Committee on Rural Affairs an overview of how the financial instruments for this period have been used and how the recovery of these [amounts] has taken place. That would be such a good update when you look at the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U86	You have the opportunity to respond if you wish, Mr. Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U87	I realized that this was a comment, but indeed, it must be noted that the financial instrument has been one of the important measures in the activities of the foundation throughout history.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U88	Now, let's go to an additional question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U89	Good manager! Good minister! In April 2018, the EKRE was not in the government, but your worried letter was with three questions, which are very topical today. You didn't answer that for a reason. I asked you how you felt about this Tarmo Tamme response at the time, and I can't read it here, it's very general. Is something still smelling in there? And the question is: does today's Ministry understand clearly that the activities of the MES are administrative and that the handling of State and European Union resources must be transparent and public?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U90	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U91	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! I had the impression that the Minister was also worried about transparency. Now, you introduced the term "administrative." Indeed, through its long history, the MES, depending on the nature of the activities and products it has offered to companies, has been based on such a clear credit committee and market-based solution on the one hand. All these products, which in one way or another relate to the effects of State aid, mean that, in one case or another, products which are clearly below the market price are offered, be it for a short period of time or on the basis of guidelines issued by the European Commission, i.e. Europe-wide, are clearly subject to the principles of administrative procedure. Indeed, the Auditor General also said in his report that all products in the process should be monitored through administrative procedures. That is why today we have sent out further questions and letters, including to the Ministry of Justice, so that we can negotiate this matter. Because if it turns out to be a 100% need, then the whole of the main activity of the MES should actually be rethought. And that also means that it concerns not only the MES but also other institutions. Today, it can be said that part of the COVID package, which was 200 million, is probably also intended, whether the whole procedure has taken place in the light of the principles of the administrative procedure. I very much hope that I will also get these answers during further discussions. However, the fact is that regardless of the type of procedure, the procedure must be transparent, clear and understandable, because some receive support and some do not receive support, i.e. for one reason or another, fall under a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U92	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U93	And let's move on to question nine. Martin Helme, member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, theme: electricity price. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U94	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! There's a saying about athletes or sports that play ball, not a man. Well, you guys like to play man! You don't answer the questions, but some personal comments go up front and back. I, unlike the Liberals, have no madness to lead other countries. If I go to another country and there are rules, I either follow those rules or I don't go there. Estonia is different. In Estonia, I have not just a right, but an obligation to implement the promises made to my electorate and to shape decisions in the way that I have promised in my view of the world. And that is the difference between whether I am in favour of a mask in Estonia and not in favour of it in Italy or vice versa. Now, we come to the price of electricity. In previous answers to the questions, you said that Estonia has committed itself to the Kyoto Treaty and basically there is nothing to do. I would point out that in December 2015, I took the floor personally and warned that these green climate agreements would cause enormous economic damage to Estonia and that we should not join them. In July 2018, I warned that climate policy, with which Estonia's then government was eager to join, threatens to make us all poor. In January 2021, before the Riigikogu elections, I said on the radio that we should leave the Paris Agreement. So I have a consistent message that this current climate policy is making us poor. And as a result, I can make proposals on how to correct this policy. We've read a whole bunch of different suggestions that you, I say again, played a man, not a ball. Apart from these proposals, all you responded to was that you did not support any of them. But please tell me what these things are that the government is going to do so that the people of Estonia are not hit by total impoverishment, cold and starvation due to your energy policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U95	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U96	Thank you. However, I must comment on what you have said. As it concerns your own statement, it must be done. You said it was playing human, not playing ball, but I think I'm really trying to answer the questions you're asking here. You said you warned me then and then and then. But it seems a little like you're walking by what I say, not by what I do. At the same time, you were also Minister of Finance, while you were at the table of the government, and the decisions you made were not affected in any other way at the time. And it's better to judge people by what you've done and by what you've done. Now, the decision you made to raise the electric excise actually speaks for itself. The fact that you wanted to quadruple excise duty since May is a fact and speaks for yourself. Even if you are now in opposition saying that you would do one or the other or a third, that is the real thing you did. This is actually a fact that cannot be argued against. But you started your question with anti-vaccine and anti-masking, [saying] that you represent your constituents and that elsewhere you behave in accordance with the rules. When I look at the positions you've said in the government... Then you said you had to shut everything down. At that point, for example, demonstrations were not allowed, demonstrations were forbidden. Today we have no restrictions, we have control measures. A mask shall be worn in unchecked places where it is not possible to check the safety of persons. And in those places where it is not possible to do so, a COVID certificate must be provided. So in [the wider] sense, we have no limitations. We have managed to keep society very open. As a result, our economy has actually been doing well. As a result, our economy has grown faster than the economy has grown in other European countries where [Society] has been very closed and has been subject to very severe restrictions during the COVID period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U97	Thank you. And now the first supplementary question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! Indeed, if you look at this electric excise now, in some ways the government should now be acknowledged. You've been chopping so far that you're not planning any cuts in excise duty, but now you've taken a baby step and already accepted that you could meet people. I was actually impressed, but perhaps most of all, that you said that if you fail, go to the municipality and ask for income support. On average, for one family with private homes, the price of electricity will increase by about 50 euros per month, which is still very, very high [change]. And I don't think we should create a system where people are asking for support to cope. The system should be such that income support should not be asked for. Should be exactly the opposite. And that is why, of course, I also have the question of why you do not want to step in, let us say, a rooster step, in which case we will cover the additional CO2 quota charge for the share of renewable energy in the electricity bill. This would lead to a reduction in the price of around 7%. In my opinion, it would still be necessary. That's my first part of the question. And the second part is, when will the government come out with a whole package? Really, the price of electricity has risen suddenly now, but it is most likely to stay high for a long time. When are you going to come out with it? I hope this doesn't go the way it's done with vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U99	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U100	Thank you. As I said before, in fact, someone always pays the price eventually. At present, there is a system that pays for those who consume electricity. And why have I referred to income support? It is precisely because those who are really very difficult are temporarily helped to cope with housing costs. Should this system be different so that all taxpayers actually pay for everyone's electricity consumption? First of all, we know very well that we cannot sustain it. And, in some ways, it would also be unfair, because there are certainly households that can cope with the price of this electricity, after all, they do not need to be subsidised at price. Now that we are looking at the electricity markets and the price of electricity, in Europe we are third on the back. Electricity is cheaper than us only in Hungary and Bulgaria; everyone else actually has higher electricity prices. What does it depend on? This depends on the fact that our additional charges in the form of network charges and renewable energy charges have not been as high as in other European countries. But I admit it's a small comfort to people who feel the rise in the price of electricity right now. We are on the power exchange and electricity prices depend on how production is done in Finland and elsewhere in the Nordic countries. And that price has been very volatile. Many people have fixed-price contracts, which means that they have not really benefited from those moments when the price of electricity has been negative. At the same time, they have the limit that if the price goes very high, it doesn't concern them. We are talking about those people who have a stock market contract and who have benefited more from the stock market price in the past. The Competition Authority has also made its assessments and found that those who have concluded contracts with a stock exchange price have actually won overall compared to those who have made fixed-price contracts. But it's a separate subject. Those people who need help because they are having a very difficult time must definitely get that help.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U101	And now for a more specific question, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U102	Thank you. I didn't get a chance to press the button in time. Well, the answer I got to my first question was classic. The ball was left somewhere behind to what I wanted to know, so what are these solutions to bring down the price of electricity, we never got there. I'd say when we were in power, we really made decisions, we did make a whole bunch of excises. It had an impact on economic growth, on tax receipts. And, by the way, we also adopted Estonia's position on European climate neutrality. It contained a number of clauses protecting our interests, our economy and our people's livelihood, which are absolutely not taken into account in the "Fit for 55" package. In other words, if we were to base this position on what we took, which was Estonia's position in the summer of 2020, there is no way we can agree with today's Commission proposal. You are talking about how to support people who are struggling. I can give you a simple example that there is an industrial company in Estonia with a monthly electricity consumption so high that it has an electricity bill in September of 600000 euros higher than it was a year ago. How do you intend to support them all? And before you gave a breathtaking speech about how we don't want to go back to the plan economy. I would point out that exactly ten years ago the price of electricity in Estonia was regulated because it is a monopoly service. And now you're going to tell us how we're going to take it from here and put it in there and support these people, let them follow the social services. This is the plan economy. That's socialism, that we're gonna make everything poor first, and then we're gonna pry the government's fingers off some kind of support money for them. But you don't have to make people poor first. First of all, we need to do what the government has to do: prevent the insane, unjustified price of electricity rising to heaven as a result of political wrong decisions and bring it back to earth. Then there is no need to send people on the tail of social assistance and start saving those who are unemployed in a bankrupt company. What are your solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U103	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U104	However, I would point out that you raised these excises. These excise duties should rise from 1 May, and that is what we have to deal with in order to change it. So it's your decision, too. Now, high electricity prices have many reasons. One is that several times the price of coal and natural gas has risen at high CO2 prices [because], as it makes sense, and another is the low level of the Nordic hydro reservoirs, which I have been talking about. We do not have enough renewable energy capacity. In addition, economic growth, which has increased everywhere, in Estonia [it] is even 8.2% or 12.9% according to the results of the first two quarters. Economic growth will always lead to an increase in consumption and, since we are on the stock market, it has brought prices up. What can be done with it? In my opinion, it is also not right as soon as such problems arise, to quickly go completely to the other side of the pendulum. If you think that Estonia is an island and does not depend on anyone else, it is not true. We're part of the Nordic Power Exchange, and we get a share of that price. We must have enough connections so that we can share renewable energy there, because renewable energy is currently the cheapest. I'm sure it's important. If we look at the prices of large consumers, industrial consumers and domestic consumers, it is clear that a very large part of the stock exchange price is not currently under control. But as I said before, at the moment when the stock market price was very low, even in minus, because there was so much production, these people and companies benefited from the stock market price. And I referred to a study by the Competition Authority which says that stock exchange contracts have ultimately been more favourable to companies than fixed-price contracts. That's the result of this study.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U105	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U106	Let's move on to question 10. It has been submitted by Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas responds. The subject is the fulfilment of the vaccination targets. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will continue on the subject of 'Not achieving the objectives of vaccination by today and responsibility'. Now you have long spoken to both Priit Sibula and Indrek Island about all the different causes, obstacles and concerns that have been involved in the vaccination process. They're pretty much all true, so don't go over it again, third time. However, I would like to know your understanding of the concept of political responsibility. Vaccination has been and continues to be the most important task of the Estonian state in the short term. This is the most important social task! It is not just the numbers behind it, as you rightly said in an earlier response. These are real people who have died, who have suffered at home, or who have been hospitalized. A new record came today: we are third in Europe after Lithuania and Croatia, according to the risk matrix of the infection control centre in the European Union. And one of the reasons for this is undoubtedly the low level of vaccination, in which we are fifth in place in the European Union from the back. Now these goals have been diluted, several times since spring, because it became apparent that we actually have more hesitations than we thought. But then this one objective was recorded: achieving 70% coverage by 22 September. During the last month, the vaccination process has essentially stopped; a few hundred more people a day have come. And now we're told that, well, that's what's happened, but what's there, let's keep working, let's try by the end of October, without really putting forward any real plans. In this situation, how do you assess the concept of "political responsibility"?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U108	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U109	Thank you. Okay, I'm not gonna list everything we do. But what I'm trying to say is that I've been talking to you in the spring that we have a problem in Ida-Viru County, we have a problem with people in other languages how to get to them. I called, then you said you had ideas. I called, I picked up a notebook and a pencil, so now I'm gonna write it down. The proposal came from a working group, from the Russian-speaking population, and from the so-called pit. None of the real suggestions came from you when I asked for this help. We have people who are also involved in the other language population in order to really get substantive suggestions, which should then be done exactly. What are these glitches? Maybe you know better in this area, but there was no help. But we do have people who think along. Yes, the Minister of Health and Labour is, of course, responsible for this area, including vaccination. But [what can] be done in a situation where we do not have a compulsory vaccination? We have come up with different measures, different ways to get people vaccinated, but how can we somehow bring these people into vaccination in a situation where we do not have a forced vaccination? I don't know how we're gonna get to them. What I've explained is that we're also trying to find ways to talk to behaviorologists. We want to understand what the solutions are to get to them. And that's why I've talked about it many times, that it's not as simple as it was in the beginning when people had a very clear desire. We have some doubts left, we have some anti-vaccines left, and there's really nothing to do with. They will never vaccinate, no matter how much information they have, whether they are spoken to by a health care professional or by someone else to take their fears out. But, of course, politically, the Minister of Health and Labour is responsible for this area, that is his area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U110	And now the point to be clarified. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U111	Thank you. If it were really so easy to solve this task that someone, such as a member of the Riigikogu, has a plan in his head and only has to call him, then this plan can and must be implemented, it is solved! If it were that simple, we would have achieved that goal. That is the point, of course, that this is a complex process, which requires testing and trying new things. I am not going to list here right now all the mistakes that have been made in the vaccination process, enough of them, and also all the proposals that I have made and that you have not taken into account. The question is actually very simple today. You say you've asked. Well, we've been asking, too, but we want answers. And it is the government that has been entrusted to lead the Estonian state and to achieve the goals that must be achieved. They must be achieved, not spread your hands and say that, unfortunately, there is nothing to be done, just so. Look, didn't get by the end of September, let's try by the end of October, but maybe it won't work. In other countries, this has been a success. We have succeeded, we must succeed. And now the question. You could say, well, what's the date, September 22nd or September 23rd? That's not what this is about. The question is that we do not actually see, the whole of society does not see, where is the plan by which these objectives are achieved. We still have not reached more than 70% coverage in the 80+ age group. Imagine this situation!? This is the place of [responsibility]. In fact, it would be right, as the Minister of Health himself said, that if he failed to carry out this most important social task, he would assume that responsibility. Now he's trying to get away with it somehow. What, then, is your vision as head of government, as a result of what steps will we achieve this goal in two weeks' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U112	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U113	Thank you. I'm quoting what you... you just said yourself. I do and I do, alternately, sorry! If it were that easy to complete this task, this problem would have already been solved. But the problem is, this task isn't that simple. If this task were to be solved by the Minister changing, if it were necessary for the Minister to change in order to achieve this objective, it would, of course, be reasonable to do so. But we both know very well that the change of minister does not fulfil this objective. It's not like there's another minister tomorrow, and then there's queues, everywhere people want to vaccinate. The problem is somewhere else. We have a whole new team of health and labour ministers who are really trying to figure out how to find new solutions. Throughout this crisis, throughout the vaccination period, there have been different moments, different phases. There was a situation where we actually had rather few vaccines, and people all wanted it. Then there was a situation where everyone had everything, just there weren't enough [vaccinating] options. We trained more people, made more and more opportunities. Now there is a situation where we have left people who hesitate or are completely anti-vaccine. It's just that our base has gone down a lot. I read, for example, in Israel, this base has also remained very low. What are the reasons that exist in Israel? I think we may have the same reasons. One reason is that a Soviet man has learned not to trust the country. If the state tells him anything, he won't believe it. In Israel, too, it was likely that the process was closed, as stated in that article. These are the reasons, and unfortunately, we have to deal with them one by one in order to take down our fears, reach out to these people. And there's work to be done for. If all of this were as simple as you said, it would have been solved. We and the Nordic countries have had a very different starting position on this issue. In the Nordic countries, there is an annual vaccination of older people against influenza, we do not have it, we do not have this habit. But this does not mean that everything has been done right, and it does not mean that there really should be no further effort to protect people as much as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U114	And now for an additional question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U115	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! First a comment and then a little question. At a time when Urmas Kruus, a good co-worker, we were ministers at the Ministry of Social Affairs, it was that the Minister gave the direction to the Chancellor or Deputy Chancellor and they did not do the opposite. In terms of responsibility, you produce a lot of the fact that there's a new team, everyone's replaced, they're inventing the box, they're operating. That's probably the case when you confirm it. But the question is: who do you think is the top official who resigns after 22 September in order for the Minister to be able to step forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U116	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U117	Thank you. If it were that simple, and it would solve the situation so that we could vaccinate more people, then anyone could resign. But that doesn't help. That's the problem. As far as I know at the Ministry of Social Affairs, as I have emphasised, people are really making a great deal of effort. They came up on Tuesday with a plan to protect these weaker people in nursing homes. For those who may become ill, there are efficacy doses, extra doses, the plan is how we do them in a row. Yes, it will not help us to achieve a higher level of coverage, but it will help us to prevent serious cases that, unfortunately, we have among older people. If we see disease in nursing homes, this is definitely a problem that needs to be addressed separately. So you have to think about these solutions. If you have any good ideas, I believe that both the Minister of Health and Labour and his team will listen to these good ideas and will make a plan just so that we can achieve greater protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U118	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Dear Merry Aart, I apologize to you very much. We have a meeting to begin, and unfortunately in this 2 minutes and 35 seconds we cannot ask and then the minister will answer. Thank you, honourable members of the government, for your reply. Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. The very interesting and substantive Question Time has ended by this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U119	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the second Wednesday session of the VI session. I ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries to make themselves known. That's not what we want, so we're going to do a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U120	80 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U121	Our first item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic. The number of the bill is 365. First of all, at third reading, there are negotiations, so, good groups, please let us know who wants to take the floor. Eduard Odines, on behalf of the Socialist Group, please. Eight minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, [[It's ringing the bell.]] We are going to have a final vote, but it is still possible to listen to the representatives of the political groups before that, so that if this hall were a little more attentive, Eduard Odines would certainly be better heard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 365 third reading and again Mashad and Dachad. I'm sorry, but we'll talk about this as long as it takes, and so many times as this problem can be solved. We are already dealing with you at the third reading of the law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property. A very short law itself, which, among other things, gives citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland the opportunity to acquire lands in our border regions. In itself, why not, foreign citizens from outside the European Union could do so. At the same time, there are thousands of people living here in Estonia for a very long time, who have not had this opportunity and do not seem to have it in the future, because our amendment, which would give long-term Estonian residents the opportunity to acquire small plots of land in border areas without problems, up to 0.2 hectares, did not find the support of colleagues in the Riigikogu. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the chapter of this law talks about these dachas and Mashas. This chapter is entitled "National defence restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property'. This means that these restrictions, which are enshrined in the law, should serve the purpose of national defence. This is where I come to this famous question: is Aunt Masha really a threat to Estonian national defence, Estonian security, as it is claimed? The very interesting fact is that when asked about this from the Ministry of Defence, which is responsible for national defence, the Ministry of Defence replied to the Commission that they did not consider this to be a problem, in their opinion border areas are not a problem, for the Ministry of Defence the problem is only islands, small islands. And then we say, "So what if the Department of Defense doesn't think it's a problem? We believe that Aunt Masha and her dachas are still a threat to Estonia's security, Estonia's defence capabilities, Estonia's independence, etc." We allow British citizens to acquire land without knowing their origin, where they come from, where their money comes from, and we say that people who have lived in Estonia all their lives, but for some reason not having become a citizen, are a threat to Estonia's security and the possibility of acquiring their property must be restricted for defence purposes. When we dealt with this issue at second reading, there were several colleagues here who commented on this issue. When I spoke at second reading about the need for the Estonian state to show its concern for people who do not have the right to land, my colleague from another political group, the government group, said that the question is not whether the Estonian state cares or does not care, because it has long been clear to all Aunt Masha, for 30 years it is clear to Aunt Masha that the Estonian state does not care about them. The Estonian state, said my colleague, does not give a shit. The Estonian state spits at people's problems, said a colleague from a group. He also told us here that Aunt Masha has long understood, very long ago, that the Estonian state does not care about her concerns. I will continue to quote my colleague: Aunt Masha does not expect the state to meet her, she is already accustomed, she already knows how to sell, buy and exchange this land, and does not expect anything good from the Estonian state. My colleague ended the accusations against the Socialists that we are speculating on the problems of Aunt Masha in this Chamber. Then another colleague from another political group that is not part of the government came here and said that all Aunt Masha had been able to become an Estonian citizen for 30 years, learn Estonian and go through all these processes. Then the same colleague mentioned that why is it such an idea that the Estonian state must meet everyone at all times, why do we not think that someone could meet the Estonian state? The Social Democrats say: ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are the Riigikogu, that is why we are an Estonian state, so that we meet people so that we can solve people's problems, which have been unsolved for decades. We do not agree that we are giving up the problem and calling Aunt Masha the security risk. We need to find a solution to this problem. It is a pity that the solution proposed by the Socialists was not supported. While my colleague, quoted, said that he has been here four or five times with the solutions to this problem and is no longer going, I promise you, ladies and gentlemen, that I will come here if necessary, four, five, six or more times until Aunt Masha's security risk status is completed. If the Centre Party and the Reform Party have shown their unwillingness to find a solution to the problem, then the Social Democrats show their spirit by not supporting this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U123	The political groups have no further requests to speak. I will close the negotiations and go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, The commission has proposed a final vote of 365 on the draft. I shall put to the vote before you the draft law on the amendment of the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic, 365. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U124	The draft is supported by 76 members of the Riigikogu, against 9. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U125	Let's move on to the second item on the agenda. Amendment of the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and thereby... Ladies and gentlemen, I will not even hear myself soon! Once again: Draft law 372 on the amendment of the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I have a little announcement to make. Namely, today's waitress, Raimond Kaljulaid, has fallen ill and that is why we cannot deal with this draft today. We'll discuss it next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U126	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. Second reading of the eIdentification and Trust Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Identity Documents Act and the Amendment Act 376. Jüri Jaanson as waitress, please. But now one prayer to you, ladies and gentlemen. If you have any questions for Jüri, please ask at a very calm and slow pace, as the secretary of the sitting prints these questions to Jüri in real time and they are displayed on his monitor. Therefore, once again: please ask calmly and slowly. Please, George!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U127	Thank you very much. So let's bring a pretty old draft to the table, which the Government of the Republic started on 19 April this year. This is a draft law amending the Law on eID and trust services for e-transactions, identity documents and state fees. Now it's a second reading. This law or its draft amends a total of four points in two laws. First of all, all of this is simply a reminder of the division of competences and responsibilities between institutions in the field of eID. Secondly, a procedure for assessing the level of reliability of private electronic identification systems will be established. Third, the State Fees Act, i.e. the application of state fees, is supplemented. Fourthly, the Law on identity documents is also amended by introducing amendments to implement the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The first reading of this draft took place on 19 May. No amendments with a deadline of 2 June were tabled. All relevant authorities were involved in the draft debate. The Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association and SK ID Solutions AS presented their opinions and suggestions. The Committee on Economic Affairs prepared a second reading on 31 May. Further discussions on the opinions received were held in the Commission working group, which took place on 3 June. The representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications then presented their views to the members of the Commission at its meeting on 7 June. The content of the proposals submitted was that it was intended to delete subsection 1 (1) from the draft, according to which the requirements, conditions and procedures for assessing the level of reliability of eID systems laid down in the eID and trust services Act would not apply to eID systems issued under the Identity Documents Act. This proposal has been discussed in depth during the drafting process. According to the initiator of the draft act, this draft does not aim to regulate national electronic identification systems, since the legal procedural framework in this regard derives from the eIDAS Regulation and its implementing act and is directly applicable. In addition, this amendment would create a supervisory conflict, as the National Information System Authority is involved in the development of eID systems and in essence should supervise itself. In the conclusion of this consultation, it was concluded that the possibilities for assessing the level of reliability of private eID [systems] are supported, but that the description of national systems should be better and the assessment more transparent. The initiator of this draft, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, really admitted and promised to improve it, but not in this draft, because this draft is not at all relevant. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, this promise will be taken up further in the second half of this year, which is now the subject, and will then come as a separate draft. At the next meeting on 19 June, the draft was withdrawn from the agenda for second reading and re-tabled at the meeting on 14 September. On 14 September, the Steering Committee also tabled two amendments, both of which received the Commission's unanimous support. In one case, the text of one paragraph was supplemented and the other amendment deleted the date of entry into force of one paragraph because it had already passed and no longer made any sense. The draft amended the language editor between the two readings. They are marked in the text; the text itself is available on the draft map. Procedural decisions of the lead committee: propose the termination of the second reading and, if it should go through today, place the draft on the agenda for the third reading for the final vote on 29 September. These decisions were also consensual in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U128	Imre Sooäär would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U129	Thank you, good manager. I ask you to be merciful so that I can slowly and calmly formulate my question to Jüri. Good waitress! In many EU countries we are already ahead of us with electronic ID cards and driving licences. For example, as early as December, Iceland introduced its electronic driving licence, which is mobile phone-based, just as we have a korona vaccination passport. The coalition agreement also promises that identity documents can be mobile in the future, both driving licences and ID cards, but it is expected that this will require a change in the identity document law, which we are also amending today. Has this been mentioned in the Commission in the context of this law, or what has been said about when we will be there? We can transfer billions of mobile ID logs, but when we go to Omniva to pick up a package, we can't identify ourselves with a cell phone, we still have to show a physical map. Was that what the Commission was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U130	The Commission has had this coalition agreement in its discussions, but the specific draft law you have just mentioned does not concern it. It's more of a technical supervision issue. What you are talking about, however, is this coalition agreement, which is also a working document for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U131	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. We can review the amendments. Two of them, both made by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee, have also taken full account of them. Nobody wants a vote. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft be discontinued. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U132	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda. Bill 394 of the Act amending the Commercial Code and the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. More specifically, we are talking about digital solutions in company law. At first reading, Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice, will introduce this to the Government of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to transpose the so-called Digital Solutions Directive into Estonian national law. In order to ensure the consistency of the regulation of branches with European Union law, certain changes have also been introduced concerning the regulation of branches in this area, which was reviewed during the Company Law Review. These are the more detailed changes. First, the electronic registration of a branch of a foreign company is granted in the same way as the electronic establishment of a private company. Indeed, according to the current regulation, a branch can only be registered through a notary. In the future, the registration of a branch could be made electronically on the company portal. Secondly, the exchange of information on branches through the system of interconnection of business registers in the European Union will be extended. In particular, notifications concerning the registration and deletion of a branch from the register and changes in the company's data will be sent between the business registers. Until now, the information on the registration of branches has not been exchanged between the Member States' business registers, which has given rise to situations where a foreign company may have been removed from the register itself, but its branch is still operating in another Member State. The data of a foreign company may also have changed significantly, but they have not reached the country register of the branch. It is important to note that the branch is neither an independent legal entity nor a legal person and cannot operate if the company of which it is a branch has been removed from the register. So this problem is solved by the proposed creation of data exchange with business registers in other Member States. In addition, there will be an exchange of information between business registers on persons who have been banned from operating as a member of the management board. Exchange of information on business bans aims to reduce corporate abuse and to better combat money laundering. The system to be created gives the right to ask the business register of another Member State for information about a particular person as to whether he or she has been designated to be a member of the management board. The business register will be obliged to respond to requests from other European Union business registers. Fourthly, the concept of a branch in Estonia is also better aligned with European Union law. Until now, there has been a restriction to a foreign company that only through a branch is it possible to operate in Estonia. This is not in line with Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Nor is it justified to require that the winding-up of a branch be carried out before the branch is removed from the register. As mentioned above, the branch is not an independent legal entity but a foreign company. Therefore, the winding-up of a branch is no longer an obligation but an option if necessary. The draft does not create such a principle that a company can also operate in Estonia without registering a branch. The company can act in Estonia because our constitution and the law of the European Union allow it to do so. If a foreign company has not registered a branch in the Commercial Register, it is not a branch, but is a cross-border activity of a foreign company in Estonia. Perhaps the term "unregistered branch" does not exist. A branch can only be created through registration in a business register. The company is subject to an accounting obligation under the law of the country in which it is established. The fact that a foreign company operates cross-border in Estonia without registering a branch does not mean that it is not subject to accounting and reporting obligations. They derive from the law of the country in which the foreign company is registered. The fifth part of the amendments concerns the accounts of the branch. It removes the existing obligation to submit an annual report on a foreign company, on a branch, and to disclose it even if there is no such obligation under the law applicable to a foreign company. A separate annual report on the branch must then be submitted. In other words, if in some countries there is no obligation to submit an annual report, a branch does not have to submit the annual accounts of that company in Estonia if that company is in another country, but it is sufficient for it to present a report on the activities of the branch, i.e. its activities here in Estonia. This includes the fact that the annual report of a foreign company must be drawn up on the basis of the law applicable to a foreign company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U134	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Imre Sooäär begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U135	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Recently, there have been more and more reports in the media about how the transactions of major players in our eastern neighbour's power station still move along offshore companies, and some of them also have branches in Estonia or contact points with Estonia. Does this bill also regulate how we exchange information with so-called tax-free regions outside the European Union? If this is not the case, how do we get our information out of there in order to protect ourselves from possible accusations that Estonia has again been a transit country for some major international transactions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U136	Thank you. This issue is not dealt with in the draft; it concerns regulation within the European Union. As regards situations where a possible transaction needs to be controlled, the general principle of knowing your partner applies. It already exists in the Estonian Code and I expect all responsible companies to follow it. In addition, financial institutions are bound undoubtedly to ensure that the transactions that are carried out are lawful. They are already governed by other laws. But there's definitely room to make it better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U137	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U138	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I apologize if I repeat your words. It's necessary for clarity. I realized that the situation that exists today, where a company will cease to exist abroad, but the branch will continue to exist, now the data exchange will start to run, and we will know when a foreign company is wound up. Does this mean that if this law enters into force, the foreign company has been wound up and this information reaches us, that the branch here somehow becomes self-liquidated or that there is some kind of procedure in connection with the entry into force of the new law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U139	Thank you. In that case, it must be noted that this branch does not exist. The branch will be extinguished.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U140	Paul Woodland, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U141	Thank you. In this regard, the next question is also the following. But the social guarantees that are guaranteed here by our law for the employees in these branches will also entail certain costs and rights and obligations, who will then be liable for them if the company does not even exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U142	Let's just say that if a company is abroad, so to speak, the parent company is actually responsible for the whole company, even if the branches are located in another country. It is still the responsibility of another country, and in legislation there are opportunities to turn these obligations against the company that has eliminated itself, but has not regularly and correctly ceased its activities in Estonia, for example. It's all in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U143	No further questions. Thank you! Now is the time for the Committee on Legal Affairs to present the situation. Chairman Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 394 was first discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 1 June. The Commission was then led by Jaanus Kariliid. Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Anti Poolamets, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast were among the members of the committee. We listened to Maris Lauri. He gave a good overview, just like he did here today. In addition, the invited guest Vaike Murumets, who pointed out that the companies and organisations involved in the proceedings concerned only the accounting sector. There was no more controversy. It was proposed to place this draft on the plenary agenda by 9 June this year. There was a consensus on that. The deadline for the amendments was 21 June and it was decided to send the draft to the Chamber. However, it was decided to exclude this draft from the agenda at the Committee on Legal Affairs meeting on Thursday, 10 June, as there was an obstruction in the Chamber. There was a consensus on this too on 10 June. For the third time, the draft was discussed on 14 September. It was decided to put him on today's 22 September agenda. There was a consensus on that. The deadline for amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 6 October. There was a consensus on that, too. The waitress, Marek Jürgenson, remained the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U145	Good Commissioner, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see any requests. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal, as you have heard, is to conclude the first reading of Bill 394. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 October at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U146	Our fifth item today is the first reading of Bill 403 of the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the government, this will be introduced by the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U147	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft Act 403 on the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act is designed to launch a specific pilot project. These changes, which we propose, are based on the agreement of the social partners, the trade unions and employers. The aim is to pilot more flexible working arrangements in the trade sector, allowing for a temporary increase in working hours during campaigns, for example, but at the same time restricting the use of debt-law contracts for recruitment, which often do not offer the same level of protection as working on the basis of a contract of employment. Under this variable hourly agreement, a retail worker may, in addition to his normal working hours, carry out additional work for a maximum of eight hours per seven-day period. A variable hour arrangement may only be concluded by an employer engaged in retail trade. In this case, it is based on a specific sector, as a result of an agreement between the trade unions there, their employers and also the national employers' and trade unions' Confederation. This particular variable-hour contract may be concluded with a staff member who is employed part-time for a period of seven days of 12 hours or more and whose hourly rate is at least 1.2 times the minimum hourly rate. Perhaps a little bit we tried to limit precisely this lowest wage offer to help pay fair wages. This particular agreement must, of course, be concluded in writing by the parties, in order to avoid later disputes. The variable hours provided for in this agreement are always voluntary and individually negotiated, and the specific desire and willingness to make such an agreement, i.e. working with variable hours, must come from the worker and, generally speaking, from the weaker labour market partner. The employer must offer a changing feeling in advance for at least 24 hours to enable the person to plan his or her working and family life, and the employee must confirm the adoption of the proposal in a form that enables it to be reproduced in writing, whether it is suitable or not for him or her. The variable hours shall be accounted for separately by the employer for each individual employee and may be aggregated during the period. The employer may initially enter into such an agreement because it is a pilot[project], up to 17.5% of its employees. Perhaps it can be widely used by any employer with at least six employees. Specific regulation is currently provided for in the draft law for a period of two and a half years. That is precisely because, as I was referring to, it is currently a pilot [project] in order. Later, it will be possible for the social partners, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Parliament to assess whether this particular change makes sense, whether it makes sense to continue in a particular sector, extend it somewhere or, for example, reverse it. All that has to be done to reverse is not to extend this time-limit change any longer. We will certainly do this assessment, as has been said, together with the social partners, and on this basis we will decide on further steps and propose to Parliament. We can have this debate when we know a little more about how the use of variable hourly rates in the retail trade starts, whether it has more positive or negative side effects, whether there is something unexpected and how it needs to be supplemented. I'll finish this and I'll be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U148	And the questions will be answered by Hele Everaus. Please! I didn't mean to ask. Then we'll take Henn Põllea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This bill seems positive to me, too, but there are some specific questions. I imagine there might be a situation where the employer is actually forcing the contractor to sign this paper with coercion and threats. How can we avoid this situation? The second question is about hourly pay. Is it considered to be some kind of extra work, is there some kind of double or increased remuneration, or does it still go into normal pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U150	Thanks for the questions. There is no doubt that there is always a risk in any labour market relationship that some kind of contracts will be dealt with in part under pressure. You always have to check it out. That is what trade unions are for in order to guarantee workers' protection, so is the Labour Inspectorate's ability to go here to the public media to avoid such situations. This is also a concern that was, of course, put on the table during the negotiations. From the beginning, we agreed that if we see any abuses occurring there, we will see that there are any problems, then the unions and employers will always be able to say that the apology, this thing does not work, does not work, is not what we wanted. I would like to believe, and I believe that all parties have made this goodwill agreement in good faith, that they will succeed in both employers' and workers' views, say, making the situation more flexible and more favourable in terms of income. If otherwise, this project must be declared complete. The other part of the question, what's the hourly rate? An hour's pay is a normal hourly rate. To a certain extent, these extra hours can be done, as I referred to earlier. If this happens on a weekend or a holiday, then of course the respective coefficients apply. If there is a normal working time, as I referred to before, these hours are allowed for up to eight hours per seven-day period in addition to normal working time, then the normal salary will apply and the employee will confirm whether he is willing to take these extra hours, whether or not he is interested in them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U151	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U152	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You said it was a pilot project for two years. If it is to receive positive feedback and it is to be extended, do you need to come back to the Riigikogu or how does it apply according to the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U153	Absolutely. Clearly, we must come to the Riigikogu somewhat before the law loses its deadline before it is over. It is certainly a question of whether to continue it in a particular sector or extend it to other sectors. In fact, they were still interested in this same draft during the negotiations, but we made it a prerequisite for trade unions and employers to reach an agreement between them. We simply, arbitrarily from the ministry or elsewhere, do not add sectors where we do not have such a common understanding that it could be piloted. If this occurs within two years, it is possible that this circle will expand. A more flexible employment relationship is something that we are moving towards everywhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U154	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm asking about the contract of employment, too, but I'm asking about your contract of employment. Since you weren't in Question Time, we couldn't investigate it. Today is September 22nd, and the vaccination mission you set before the country is not complete. You said in July that if this... Well, you promised me half a percent of the error, 70 to 69 commas something, but if it's under, you promised to take responsibility and step back. I understand that as of today, you've changed your mind. Can you explain why you're breaking your word?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U156	Honourable Jevgeni Ossinovski! I'm really glad you're asking me that. So we can start with the correction of mistakes in the light that I'm asking you not to give me quotes that don't belong to me. Perhaps these specific sentences, especially this other side, were not my quote. I remember pretty well what I said. I've been looking after it. If you mean the famous interview for Vilja Kiisler, they really asked me if I would resign. I said it depends on whether this objective is within reach, that is whether it is 69.8 or in the area, or whether it is clearly unattainable. I told you, then, of course, it's my responsibility. Those other sentences you have in there, they're not mine. This [target] is not unavailable, 95% of it is made. We will also do the last few percentage points. 95% of 70% is 66.5%. We really have 66.3%, and that's 94.7%, to be very precise, of this whole goal, of the goal. We set it up in the spring, didn't we? You have to look at what was then, not what was in mid-July. As of now, I am convinced that we will do this 70%. I assume that every member of the Riigikogu, every parliamentary party, every opposition or coalition politician will contribute in local governments as well as at state level. The target of 70% by the end of October is also for full coverage, and I am optimistic about that. I have listened to your speeches. Once again, I like the facts, you too, that Estonia is not the fifth in the European Union, we have eight countries behind us when we look at the coverage of the population, including full vaccination coverage. You're looking at this table that doesn't include those who've been through plus vaccinated, where we have coverage below 50%. Right, Our World in Data. I'm familiar with their databases, we can review them later. Maybe we're really ninth from the back. Could be higher, I agree. In the European Union's view, the Nordic countries are certainly an example for us and they must be. That's where we're going. I can simply point out that, as you well know, both when you were a minister and when your colleague was a minister, Estonia was at the end of vaccination against influenza in the European Union. We are today the ninth from behind of the COVID [on vaccination], that is not a good result, but we are not the last. So now I'm going to keep working. My contract of employment is valid. Specifically, I am not talking about a contract of employment here, but I believe that crises and problems are coming up in the work of every minister, and they are to be resolved, not to escape them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U157	Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U158	Thank you. Well, presenting a large number of victims as a country's success is a peculiar view. This shows that the state has failed to manage the corona situation. This is true, of course, also in the case of Estonia, given this spring when we were at the top of the world in terms of infections. So this, too, is undoubtedly part of the responsibility that has fallen upon you. Although not the only one for you, there was certainly a great deal of the head of government's inexperience and bad decisions as a result. But I'll take a short look. I do not want to have a corona debate on this item. Your understanding, first of all, is that you have in no way linked the effectiveness of your work to the question of political responsibility, that this is the wrong interpretation. So basically, no matter how bad you do your job, you think you have to keep doing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U159	Yeah. I think that demagoguery does not honor this Chamber. Perhaps once again: I said that if we were at 40% today, I would have no justification. If we were at 50% today, it's the same way. There are some countries of the European Union here, as you well know, the European average is also. Well, not exactly average, it's a little higher. But since we're 66 commas on something (and sometimes Janssen's deliveries were cancelled) and we're going to get 70% full in the coming weeks, I really appreciate that there's no reason to resign from this surface. As far as the wider debate is concerned, I am happy to hold the COVID debate. Today, I was just thinking about whether the Social Democratic Party, which is very active in talking about how they are not listened to, etc., has once proposed a debate in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I found it wasn't. Correct me if I'm wrong. All this time, I've never been to your house to discuss since I've never been invited. If I had been invited, I'd be happy to come. [[A voice from the hall.]] While you've been in opposition during this government. [[A voice from the hall.]] Then I was wrong, I'm sorry. But I tried to remember if you had invited me to discuss the group. Not the Social Affairs Committee, not the Riigikogu Audit Committee. These proposals have been put forward in the media, particularly through businesses, who can be recognised, but there has not been such a good debate with your group. So I'd love to come and talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U160	Ladies and gentlemen and good Minister! However, I would point out that we are in the process of drafting a draft amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act. Question Time, enquiries, written questions are all about asking the Minister other questions. [[A voice from the hall.]] But we're done asking questions. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U161	Thank you. I'll do my best to be here next week. We can continue this debate in Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U162	Okay. And now the Social Affairs Committee... Sorry, this draft is in the proceedings of the Committee on Legal Affairs, not in the proceedings of the Committee on Social Affairs, although it is the draft law on employment contracts. Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U163	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu, I am then the Commission's rapporteur for the proposed draft, i.e. draft 403. We have discussed the draft in the Commission on three occasions: 1 June, 10 June and 14 September. On 1 June, we discussed the draft in substance, on 10 June and 14 September, we only took procedural decisions. I think the Minister introduced the bill quite thoroughly, and I am not going to go over it. But maybe a few keywords. What were the questions? There was an interest in ensuring that overtime would not be concealed by changing arrangements. It was also intrigued that variable hours would be more remunerated. Tanel Kiik replied that employers and trade unions had a somewhat different understanding of the matter. Trade unions would have liked variable hours to be paid higher or any additional social guarantees. Employers would have preferred a longer aggregation period and a larger number of employees with whom a variable hourly agreement could be made. Then a compromise was reached that no major risks were taken. The draft refers to every sixth staff member of the institution with whom a variable hour agreement can be made, and additional hours are optional. It also asked how it was foreseen that the variable hour arrangement would not be abused, that a person would simply work overtime but not receive a higher remuneration under the variable hour arrangement, and whether the variable hours would be a fixed number. Tanel Kiik said that variable hours are individually agreed and voluntary and can last up to eight hours in a seven-day period. Seili Suder added that if, for example, a person is under 39 hours per week according to a contract of employment, there may be only one variable feeling. It shall be aggregated per month. There was also the question of what were the greatest points of debate on the draft. Tanel Kiik replied that from the employers' point of view, the argument was that five-sixths of employees had to continue working on a standard contract, in so far as it was a pilot project. Questions were also raised by accounting for variable hours. For trade unions, the point of dispute was whether variable hours should be remunerated on the basis of normal wages or higher wages. Changing hours are not overtime, but have been agreed in the employment contract from the outset. A person is working at least with a minimum load and is able to work at variable hours slightly more than the minimum load. If a person exceeds the number of variable hours agreed in the contract, the calculation of overtime begins to run. There was still a question of how many hours can change in the world. For example, if a person is intended to work at least 12 hours a week, an extra eight hours can be worked as "variable hours." In the case of aggregated working time, the accounting logic shall be the same; these hours shall be counted over a month. Tanel Kiik added that rather the change concerns those people who work part-time. There was also the question of whether this possibility of working with variable hours offers more social guarantees. The opinion is that if people are currently working under a debt contract, the employer would be interested in concluding a contract of employment. Procedural decisions were also taken: to put the draft on the agenda today, to appoint Mr Pikhof as rapporteur and to propose that the first reading be closed. And by the deadline for amendments, I will see the last sitting...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U164	October 6th.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U165	October 6th. Okay. Thank you. Any questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-22_U166	It doesn't look like it. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for words from the political groups. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 403. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 October at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we have well exhausted today's agenda. I wish you a lovely evening. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
