ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will start the 7th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. The members of the Riigikogu do not have this wish today, which is why we can carry out the next verification of our presence. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U2	81 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently present, 20 missing. We're going to have a good time with the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U3	The first item on our agenda today is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, number 297. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 297. I therefore propose to you an opportunity to open negotiations. Do the groups want to start negotiations? No, I don't. Then we can proceed to the final vote. Good Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs 297. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U4	85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 297 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U5	Our second item today is the debate on the key national issue of the 'COVID-19 vaccination' launched by the Committee on Social Affairs. And let me also review the procedure for discussing our second item today. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, on the proposal of the Social Affairs Committee, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu appointed the following procedure for the discussion of the important national issue of "Vaccinating COVID-19." First, the presentation by the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige, will be up to 20 minutes, then there will be 40 minutes for questions and answers. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep it down a bit. Secondly, the representative of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, Maivi Parve, will also report for up to 15 minutes, for questions and answers up to 15 minutes. Thirdly, the Deputy Director General of the Health Board, Mari-Anne Härma, gives a presentation, up to 15 minutes and up to 15 minutes for questions and answers. Fourthly, the presentation by Dr Elle-Mall Sadraku, a member of the board of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, will be up to 15 minutes and up to 15 minutes for questions and answers. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that each member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two questions to the rapporteurs in total. Then we go to the negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak during the negotiations. The Committee on Social Affairs has also proposed that representatives of the political groups first and then members of the Riigikogu take the floor. And when we finish this debate, we will not take a decision in the Riigikogu. So... Ah, we also have some procedural questions. Does Aivar Sõerd have a procedural question or has he registered for speaking? So, Kalle Grünthal, do you have a procedural question or have you requested a word? You have your hand on the procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U6	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question. You said that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask two questions. Maybe you'll be more specific. I have seen that § 153 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act states that the duration of the debate, the rapporteurs and the time allowed for questions and speeches are determined by the Riigikogu Board. This is where this regulation concerns time. However, why have you defined that there are only two questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U7	Just as we have had an important discussion on a national issue in the past, the members of the Riigikogu have a total of two questions for all rapporteurs this time. This is up to two questions, i.e. this option does not have to be used, and it must also be taken into account that we have a specific time for asking, which is proposed to us by the Committee on Social Affairs. So, in view of today's number of speakers, the Committee on Social Affairs has proposed to us such a procedure. Maybe here's the principle of who comes first, the man. And our working day today will last when we extend to 2:00. Thank you. Yes, please, Kalle Grünthal, the second procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U8	Thank you very much for your explanation. But the question right now is that I referred to a specific rule of law, so let's say, § 153 (2) of the law, right? And I would just like to know if we are not currently applying this rule of law, which regulates only time, but not questions. Maybe you're going to be a little more specific than that, which is just two questions. I understand that this practice has been implemented, but I am concerned that practices cannot still conflict with, say, the provision of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U9	Thank you. That is exactly how the paragraph you referred to says that the duration of the debate, the rapporteurs and the time allowed for questions and speeches will be determined by the Riigikogu Board on a proposal from the Commission. That's exactly what we did. The Commission has proposed to us this form of debate, where each has a maximum of two questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U10	Thank you. I have no complaint about the Bureau's decision on how we are dealing with this matter of national importance today. I myself have been on the board to make this decision, and that is just as the practice has been so far, the Commission has made its proposal and the Bureau has drawn from it. However, I would like to come to good practice in Parliament. It has not been a practice for a long time that the logic of quick fingers is used to shut down the opposition. When this practice begins to spread in this Chamber, we should also seriously consider how to discuss these key national issues in the Bureau. I am now watching that the Centre Party has registered questions to its minister, which means that I will answer myself, and I will ask myself. In fact, the opposition cannot ask its questions within the time frame. This is not good practice, it is always possible for coalition members to ask their minister whether it is in a political group or whatever party meetings. The opposition doesn't have that possibility. This is a matter of good practice and practice. Perhaps we in the board should begin to change this practice and in the future give everyone the opportunity to ask questions in unlimited time, otherwise this will look very pathetic in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U11	Thank you, my good colleague. We take this as a reply, and at the moment we still consider that every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask questions about a crucial national question. And the OTRKs in themselves are not an opposition or a coalition view. But, of course, if you have a wish to raise this issue on the board, we can discuss it. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U12	Thank you. In fact, I fully support Mr Seeder's thinking that, in essence, when it comes to a crucial national issue, all Members must be guaranteed the opportunity to speak, ask and receive information on the matter. I also fully agree that, at this point, there is a 'blocking' of opposition members so that they cannot ask unpleasant questions that may not be wanted to be answered. So, in any case, this situation needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that we have not yet reached the debate, we are still discussing procedural issues. The more we discuss procedural issues, the less time we have for discussing a crucial national issue. Mr. Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U14	I would like to make it clear that there is still an opposition and a coalition here in the debate on all the issues. I do not know that Fatherland has somehow become a coalition party by today, we are still in opposition. Secondly, if the submission of questions is limited in time I understand that only 40 minutes can be asked to the minister, but the length of the reply by the minister is not regulated by any legal provision, then it is simply not possible for all members of the Riigikogu to ask questions in time. That's what I pointed out. So this opportunity is not really happening in practice today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U15	Thanks for that line. But once again, we actually have the opportunity to ask all members of the Riigikogu for an important national question. And I imagine that if we have a key national issue in this Chamber, this is such an important issue that it must be cross-party and everyone should have the opportunity to ask. But once again, I hope that we can go to this debate, the more you will all be able to ask. Mr. Ernits, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U16	Thank you. I see it's been 12 minutes. And I'm reminding you, I'm not a member of the coalition right now. So it's like trying to get to the bottom of the story. Of course, it should not be mystified that if some questions may not be answered at all, you can talk about a garden or a hole in a garden, then it sort of solves the situation. I mean, the situation is critical. Let's get to work, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U17	I agree very much with you. There are no further procedural questions, so we can get to the first report. And I'm happy to ask the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, for a speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U18	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I very much agree that the situation is critical, as Peeter Ernits, a member of the Riigikogu, said. The crisis in COVID-19 has indeed taken the highest possible dimensions in Estonia so far. And it is also true that the restrictions imposed by the government's decisions yesterday are the most extensive that has been in this crisis. So, in this view, we will gradually emerge from this crisis, both with the help of prevention measures and with the support of sensible human behaviour and vaccination. Today, I am going to talk more about vaccination, the state of play and the plans, and I will also answer as many questions as I can in the course of this. [[Show slides.]] Here's a little bit of a reference now, because it's yesterday morning, but today there's about 3600 more vaccinations. We can see that the total number of vaccinees in Estonia has grown well for seven weeks in a row. This week, too, we are certainly looking forward to the greatest results so far. As of today, approximately 150,000 doses of vaccine have been administered, more than 100,000 people have received at least a single vaccination and more than 40,000 have received a second dose of vaccine. I know that the updated slides had to be printed out already and will come later for members of the Riigikogu. After all, this situation changes not only every day, but basically every hour. But at the same time, the spread of the virus itself, as has been said, is also very widespread. If you look at this test volume, we're actually about to cross the limit of a million tests for this whole crisis. However, what is positive is that for some time now, the number of people vaccinated each week is still higher than the number of people who have been positively infected. This means that more and more people will be protected by vaccination than by the disease. However, this is certainly a significantly better way to achieve antibodies in the health perspective and is also significantly safer for human health. With different vaccine manufacturers, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic have worked together through a joint procurement of the European Union, one can say, for nearly a year now. In fact, these joint activities and planning started already in spring, and then there were the first Baltic ministerial meetings on the subject and also at European Union level. There were, of course, no vaccines at the time, but already then, at the request of the Member States, the European Commission began to map potential vaccine manufacturers who could be the first to make the vaccine. As a hindsight, we can say that the choices and predictions made by the European Commission, if you could say so, were actually mostly correct on the surface of the information at that time. When looking at the first three vaccine manufacturers who have been granted marketing authorisation, these are Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca, all three are available in a joint EU procurement procedure. Besides that, there's actually more of them. We know that this week, 11 March in particular, the marketing authorisation for Janssen Pharmaceutica is expected and that applications for marketing authorisations are still available from several manufacturers. In principle, the choice originally made at the time was originally seven producers; Valneva joined later in the hindsight, in any case, proved correct. Pre-purchase agreements have been made with the right companies and there has not been such a situation, for example, that the first marketing authorisation would have been made by a manufacturer outside this procurement. Then we would be in a situation where all countries would have to apply for doses of each other's winnings from there, and then smaller countries such as Estonia would undoubtedly have a weaker power shoulder. Here are actually current doses. [[Show slides.]] I can tell you right now, it could still change. Maybe if we look at these basic contracts, Estonia had over 4.5 million doses in total, but as I have said before, the main problem now is not the number of doses by the end of the year, but the main problem is when these doses of vaccine arrive in Estonia. Today, we are still discussing purchasing opportunities in the Government of the Republic, precisely in the view that if, for example, additional doses of Pfizer/BioNTech arrive earlier than expected, if they are to come in the second quarter, for example, then there is a point of consideration as to whether they should be acquired. Personally, I think it would. Similarly, if other manufacturers who receive a marketing authorisation have the capacity to bring vaccines faster than the initial agreement provides, then of course, here too, the possibility of buying doses in this sense and dealing with selling or donating them from the second half of the year should be taken into account, of course, but the possibility of giving vaccination to the Estonian population more quickly. There are still so many numbers that if we look at these authorised vaccine manufacturers, currently Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca, all three together guarantee Estonia, it can be said that roughly 2.5 million doses of vaccine, in any case enough to vaccinate the entire adult population. But as I pointed out, Janssen Pharmaceutica should also be added to this list very soon and the following products on top. So in any case, let's say, the current vaccine deficit at the latest during the summer will be replaced by a sufficient amount of vaccines to ensure that everyone can be vaccinated. That's what we've been aiming for since May. I will also talk quickly about the supply of vaccines; there have been many questions on this issue. [[Show slides.]] Here are just put two tables side by side: one is what was the original plan, the other is what these numbers actually started to do. Here, this distribution of changes has been deliberately made in advance, which shows a little bit of this process. Perhaps the most signicant thing is to see how AstraZeneca's deliveries have changed in a few weeks. It was supposed to be 26,000, but it came to zero, the second week, when it had to come less, has grown again considerably. Specifically, this week, which starts now, will be the best week for the arrival of vaccines, then more than 52000 doses will come to the Estonian country. Under the original NAP, only 6,000 should have come here. So these numbers have changed several times, and that's why it's even hard to read. But I'm about to propose a cleanup, which shows the real score. Here, in itself, are the supplies of vaccines that have taken place in Estonia until the ninth week, and those that are taking place, that is, the tenth week. Pfizer/BioNTech arrived yesterday, AstraZeneca's first delivery arrives today, the second arrives in the second half of the week, and Moderna also arrives in the second half of the week. These vaccinations will be spread over both the end of this week and next week, but in any case this will provide an opportunity to increase the pace again. And if you look at the end of the month, the same way, in fact, these numbers have now wide-rangingly increased. Perhaps in March there will be considerably more vaccines in Estonia than came together all winter, and in the second quarter we will also expect growth. When it comes to the following vaccines, I stopped briefly, but I add that the Janssen Pharmaceutica vaccine will soon be authorised, and March 11th is the date that is allowed to be stated. This decision is expected to be positive. The Agency is, of course, independent here and also the European Commission in its assessment. In addition, there are three vaccine manufacturers currently in the "pre-evaluation phase'. The expression "rolling review" means that they send data and additional information to the European Medicines Agency on a rolling basis in order to speed up the evaluation procedure. In the past, vaccine production has been triggered by CureVac, and their vaccine is also part of the EU's common agreement. Estonia buys 660000 doses in the order of magnitude. The second is Novax, which has already started in February, a date even somewhat earlier, and also in the joint agreement of the European Union. The third, who is indeed currently in the pre-evaluation phase, is the Russian vaccine Sputnik V.They are currently requesting preliminary feedback and an assessment of their own data and studies so that an official application for a marketing authorisation can be made. I am saying this, however, that it is also my view that any vaccine, regardless of the country of manufacture, if it receives a European Union marketing authorisation, is welcome on the Estonian market. Then we can use it, and if it helps to increase the coverage of vaccination, it makes sense to do so. The target groups to be vaccinated have mainly designated immunoprophylaxis in the Committee of Experts, as is actually the case with national immunization in general. It's not usually that much attention, of course, but maybe it's a good thing that now there's a greater awareness of vaccines. The most important thing really is to use vaccines as targeted as possible, i.e. to start with health care, care institutions, workers and residents. I am very pleased that 70% of people in the healthcare sector have taken advantage of this opportunity. There are hospitals where that percentage is even higher. And, of course, the level of vaccination is still rising. Certainly, family doctors with a percentage above 80 can be recognized immediately. So this is also a good example for all the people the family doctor invites to vaccinate. It must be taken into account that they themselves, to a very large extent, perhaps most of them have taken advantage of this opportunity, some have already suffered from the disease, some have been vaccinated later, but there is a very clear consensus here. I would also like to thank the residents and their loved ones, who are actually contributing to getting them to run colleges. In care, about 85% of clients, or residents, have been vaccinated. If you look at the news and you look at the hearths, then such large, hundreds of infections, as we saw last spring, autumn and winter, can really not come anymore, because just the residents of the nursing home have already achieved the so-called local livestock immunity, if you could say so. If there are isolated infections, isolated lesions, these volumes are often smaller, and this also means that hospital care has less stress. In the meantime, if during the peak period, 15% of hospital needs came from nursing homes and 40% of all deaths actually came from nursing homes, then now both numbers have decreased and decreased again, as there is a certain delay. For example, the last time in nursing homes, the proportion of hospital needs was probably 3% instead of 15% and more. If we are now talking about older people, here we have really focused on organising vaccinations in turn precisely so that, among the groups at risk, those who are at the highest risk, i.e. people over 80 years of age, would also receive vaccinations. The GMP itself has drawn up additional principles for inviting the group at risk to vaccinate. I'm sure Dr. Elle-Mall Sadrak will be more specific in his presentation. Perhaps the logic is that if we know that we have 360000 people at risk, we will have to make choices and groups among them, in a situation where there are just many times less vaccines than the real need. But I am also optimistic here that, by the end of April, we have been able to offer vaccination to all people at risk. This means that this most critical phase in managing the current crisis will once again be one decisive step closer to a solution. The target groups for vaccination are also frontier workers with a higher risk of infection and providers of vital services. We actually started this work at the end of the year. We sent a request to each ministry to map out critical target groups in our field. The aim was to draw them up by the end of January, some clarifications were also made in February. A slight change in the pace since obtaining a marketing authorisation for AstraZeneca, together with the recommendation of the Committee on Immunoprophylaxis, to use this vaccine to vaccinate people under 70 years of age, meant that, in some ways, we had to start vaccination of frontier workers sooner than the original plan envisaged. You could say that the opportunity came earlier. Indeed, the expectation was that general education schools could begin at the beginning of February when the first supplies of AstraZeneca vaccines arrived at the end of the first week of February and the second week. For this purpose, the necessary lists were drawn up, all of which took time, that is an honest answer. Perhaps it was actually triggered by time lapses. In retrospect, it seems that at that point the first deliveries of AstraZeneca vaccine should have been directed to risk groups under 70 years of age, until the lists have been drawn up and the technical arrangements have been resolved, and then the front line should be started. That's what wisdom would have done differently by looking back. In any case, however, the interest of educators in vaccination has also been very high. The web seminar had about 11,000 participants and viewers and is also available for follow-up. There has also been a strong interest in the area of internal security, where vaccination was also started in mid-February with vaccination of educators. To a certain extent, vaccinations have also been carried out in the Defence Forces and people with primary priority are participants in foreign missions; they are important actors to ensure continuity of action. Of course, the information and explanation works in both Estonian and Russian. Now, this week, social workers and kindergarten-care workers are also becoming more and more focused. Maybe we should move on with the vaccination. I know that more than 80% of the people in the education sector who have been vaccinated so far have been interested. There are certainly people who still need to see if the vaccine was not suitable in the past or if it was not suitable in time. But 83% or 84% of these lists are made. Among the rescuers and the police, this percentage is even higher. More than 90% of the list that had been issued has been vaccinated, and it is certain that vaccination will continue for those who, for some reason, either changed or temporarily did not fit in. Later, we can make broader summaries of the overall coverage of this particular target group, because these percentages of 80 and 90 are indeed among those who wished to receive vaccination. Later, we can take stock of how many people in the education sector as a whole use the possibility of vaccination, how much of internal security, social affairs, etc. Very much is asked about the age limit of the AstraZeneca vaccine. These questions will be discussed by the Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis. The question here is, in particular, how many additional studies and additional data have come in order to assess the suitability of this vaccine, regardless of age. Several countries have changed their practices and this is certainly a point of consideration for us too. Of course, our age limit has never been as low as in some countries. We set this threshold of 70, which is actually a little higher than was in most of Europe, precisely because there was no direct reason why it should not be used for older people, but because it was purely a question of access to research. I will also quickly show these supplies of vaccine, along with the planned target groups. With different healthcare professionals and a care home block, one can say, is actually finished. The main emphasis is on the risk groups with the entire Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, the Moderna vaccine and two thirds of the AstraZeneca vaccine reaching the country. One third is what we use to vaccinate vital service providers and workers at higher risk of infection. I really want it to reach everyone in May. If the supplies of vaccines allow, this is possible even earlier, but here everything really depends now on how manufacturers can keep up with the delivery schedules and, for example, on when Janssen Pharmaceutica will start to make its own deliveries. We know that a total of 800000 doses of vaccine are expected in Estonia from these three producers alone in the second quarter. More precise figures are known at the moment only that in April, 110000 doses will arrive from Pfizer, but there may actually be changes here too if we buy more doses of vaccine and if they can be brought forward in time. Vaccinators have mainly been doctors, nurses and midwives who have been trained accordingly. Perhaps with the main emphasis at the beginning of hospitals, later more and more family doctors, family nurses, who have a better overview of their own lists. It is in the case of high-risk groups that we know that not all family medical centres have received as much vaccine as they want. That is exactly our concern. There is no person in the health sector who would not want to increase the rate of vaccination. Rather, the question is the limitation of the vaccine, the uncertainty of the delivery schedules and, of course, the fact that we need to divide these groups in order to carry out vaccinations as reasonably as possible, precisely on the basis of the risk of infection. Hospitals and occupational health care providers, as well as private health care institutions, are involved in those at risk groups, which are for frontier workers. And later, when we create vaccination centres for a period of high demand, this will depend on the offers that provide this service. The interests have been felt by hospitals and also by private health care providers. We have had many consultations on this subject and are still taking place. In any case, these centres must be opened at some point. And in order to book times, we are increasingly using digital registration solutions, which have now been piloted. It can also be used to gradually expand target groups. Perhaps at first, older people are, as I said, not more than 80 years old, but we are talking about 70 years of age and above, and then a population of more or less middle age, etc. Unfortunately, we cannot offer everyone access to digital registrations at once, for the simple reason that the vaccine usually comes at 20,000 or 30,000 a week, the last delivery was 50,000, but if there is a need for a total of one million people, it makes no sense to send an invitation to these million people. The vaccination status. [[Display the slide.]] Here again, as I said, the situation yesterday. Here you can always see such a spike on schedule, i.e. the second half of the week is faster. This is mainly because deliveries arrive at the beginning of the week, Pfizer/BioNTech always comes on Mondays and AstraZeneca mostly on Tuesdays, this week comes on Tuesday plus Friday, if I'm not mistaken by heart, and likewise, depending on the fact that the need for the second dose is known on Monday morning, for the simple reason that the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is known to be kept under normal conditions, under normal refrigerator conditions, only five working days remain. Perhaps until then, the Health Board will keep a one-week dose cover in storage and will be sent out on Monday morning and there will be more vaccinations in the second half of the week, as well as more vaccination notifications. That's definitely the way it is this week. There has also been a gradual increase in the number and number of weekend vaccinations. We also have several projects running this weekend. As of yesterday, 7.7% of the population had been vaccinated with at least one dose, namely 4.4% in one dose and 3.3% in two doses. With this, we are clearly faster than average in the European Union, but of course, knowing the scale of this crisis, this percentage does not satisfy us. We have had a great deal of contact on this issue, both with producers and with representatives of the European Commission, in order to increase the amount of vaccine that the country reaches and thereby increase the rate of vaccination. The coverage in the 80+ group, as I referred to earlier, is one of the most important. It is 27.2% and it is also growing steadily. By the end of March, we want to see that all people over 80 have had the opportunity to vaccinate themselves. These are the people in the most high-risk groups. We know that the average age of a COVID-19 patient who left us is 80 years old. This is where a person is most vulnerable. And actually, the range of 50 to 70 years of age is between the people we vaccinate with AstraZeneca, as well. The average age of those in need of hospital care has also started to decline, largely because the older part of society and the nursing population have been vaccinated. We talked briefly about the coverage of healthcare professionals once before. The family doctors really do stand out here. I'm sure I appreciate them. And these numbers are all preliminary. So the number of people who have received at least one dose at present is only increasing, so this percentage can only increase. There are also hospitals, such as the University of Tartu Hospital, where we know that these percentages are still significantly higher than the average. Here is now the table of the countries of the European Union as of yesterday. [[Display the slide.]] A lot has been asked why Malta is so fast. I'll get that right away. Malta is in a hurry because it has significantly more vaccines than other European Union countries. And for the same reason, Latvia is behind others, because it simply has fewer vaccines. This is the moment where some countries gave up certain quantities of supplies. Estonia bought at least as many vaccines as it intended, some more. And at that point Malta bought, or Malta, Denmark and the Netherlands, three of them bought the remaining doses from Latvia. This is also the reason why Latvia cannot, even with its best wishes, rise significantly above the end of the table, at least now, and Malta, in turn, has a very clear head start in front of the other countries of the European Union. Estonia is, as I said, in the fifth place. Surely our goal is to be active in the top five and to constantly increase our percentages. Thank you for your attention. I am happy to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U19	Good Minister, thank you very much for keeping to an exact time. Now let's go to the questions and start this round by Peter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U20	Good manager! Good minister! Everything's great, we're moving at a fast pace, but people keep calling me and they're not old people, but mostly young, often women. They ask why a family doctor's center goes like this and so on. These centres can be in one city or close to each other. Well, for example, one family doctor center has the vaccine left over, and then random people, as I've been told, may not be in a risk group at all, but another center, for example, next door, can't have the risk group either. My question is: does anyone monitor the activities of the family doctor centers and that it is uniform and that there are no anomalies like that, that one has a vaccine for everyone, but the other doesn't even get those who want it? It has been asked where and how to register if you are willing to go away so that the vaccine does not go to waste.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U21	Thank you very much for your question. Very clear theme setting, quite frankly. Perhaps it has been the case that family medicine centres have received the vaccine simply differently. This is due to the fact that the supplies of vaccines that reach the country have been very limited. Maybe if we really started the cycle by dividing the family doctor centers into five groups, then this meant that in time the largest lists of Harjumaa, Pärnumaa and Ida-Virumaa became the first, because at that point they had the highest prevalence of infection, then the following groups became the next, etc. Perhaps the pace of reaching older people, or people over 70 years of age, and the younger risk group, are different. Now that the supply of vaccine is gradually increasing, we can also expand the number of family doctors involved in vaccination procedures, and that is what has been done. In Estonia, vaccinations have been carried out by more than 460 health institutions, and now the same five-week schedule shortens to three weeks. This means that it is possible to receive vaccines every third week to protect the groups at risk. I'm very sorry for the fact that he is, but we just have 785 family doctors at 785 centers over 400, and for example, the country gets to the Pfizer/BionTech vaccine, as I showed earlier, at 8,000 doses in a few weeks, at 10,000 in a few weeks. Now, fortunately, the quantities will be higher and this will really allow everyone to offer it. In the past, we were figuratively able to get 10 doses per list, and it would clearly not make sense to launch 785 separate shipments, say, 400 different centres. The same question has been the case with the AstraZeneca vaccine, indeed, since it has been used for frontline workers, for younger risk groups, it has also been so that it is usually packed in 100 units, just for information, since there have been really 10 vials in a box, 10 doses in each vial, then 100 doses have been distributed. For example, when 16800 doses of vaccine arrive in the country, this means that there are 168 points where it can be taken, including hospitals and occupational health care providers. In some places, the numbers are naturally higher, so in fact, the number of establishments that will receive this shipment of vaccine in a given week is lower. Understandably, this raises questions and resentment in people. I can totally understand all that. And we'd be happy to share with everyone if there were any vaccines in the Health Board's warehouse that could be distributed. The representative of family doctors can certainly tell you more about this, what considerations have been, what logic has been. I mean, we've been through all of these with the doctors' representatives. Under the conditions of the vaccine deficiency, it can be said that any choice gives rise to a clear sense of injustice and inequality, but we have tried to do so as reasonably as possible, namely in terms of the risk of infection, the size of the risk groups in a particular list, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U22	Ladies and gentlemen, I have one request for you, especially for those who are in the sitting through distance participation. Indeed, we could use the opportunities and resources that have been allocated to us to make it convenient for us in this Chamber and, above all, for the waitress to look at you, in addition to hearing. Please turn on your cameras! Okay. Please, Kaido Höökelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Two brief questions. Firstly, have we also worked with other countries to accelerate the delivery of vaccines? And the second question: how much and do we even have hope for our Estonian vaccine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U24	Thank you very much. I'll start with the first one. Cooperation with other countries, on the one hand, in the European Union, we are doing all the time anyway, but we have indeed made separate appeals. For example, you may remember when the same temporary drop in Pfizer/BioNTech's supply occurred in January, Estonia was one of the countries that initiated a referral to the European Commission in the Nordic and Baltic countries that it was not acceptable at such short notice or almost non-existent notice. Four weeks were then mentioned, i.e. even at the beginning, smaller volumes of vaccine had to reach the countries. As a result of this protest, and certainly as a result of the work of the European Commission, such a reduction in the delivery schedule took place only one week, it was the third week of January, and the normal volumes have already been restored, which helped us to reach more risk groups once again. In addition, we have also addressed some countries directly. We've also been in contact with several of us last week, you know, a thinker. At the moment, there is another joint approach to planning, precisely in order to change this principle of distribution of vaccines a little. The logic is that since there are countries in the European Union that really have been faster than others, as well as countries with clearly higher levels of infection, these considerations could be taken into account in the delivery process. Estonia meets both criteria: we have vaccinated faster than average and we have a higher than average risk of infection and need for hospital care. This means that Estonia has a higher need for vaccines when it is purely objective. We are proposing this to the Commission, and we have already actually made it through the European Union's vaccination steering group, so that these criteria can be taken into account and subsequently offset for future supplies of vaccines. As I referred to earlier, Estonia has ordered 4.5 million doses, which is not to say that the number of doses purchased or booked is small, but that they are now and are currently in deficit. I can use this parallel once again: figuratively, 100,000 doses of vaccine are worth more than 200,000 in March in the second half of the year. The second question concerned Estonia's own vaccine. Indeed, we have very good pharmaceutical developers and very good scientists who have also cooperated and helped develop vaccine candidates. But, of course, when we talk about this, let's say, the ability to produce a vaccine and, specifically, the conduct of clinical trials at full stages, as well as the actual granting of a marketing authorisation for a medicinal product, we need to take into account the major manufacturers in the world, in particular German and US companies, but also cooperation with the University of Oxford, for example, in the case of AstraZeneca. Perhaps the most realistic way to obtain vaccines now and now is to take into account the large producers with previous experience in the development of vaccines, production experience as well as the insane financial capacity to invest in research and development. Thus, several countries and the European Union have supported the European Support Instrument (ESI), Estonia has also contributed to it, and some countries have made direct investments there. There will certainly be scientists in Estonia, and I value Estonian pharmaceutical experts very highly, but if we are really talking about resolving such an urgent crisis, then it is reasonable to have joint procurement, and only the major producers in the world are those who are able to provide us with the necessary vaccines at this rapid pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U25	Marko Šorin, please! You can't hear Marko Šorin right now. So let's ask Marko Šorin to put himself back in line. We don't want to keep the questions on hold. At the moment, Marko, we really can't hear you. Let's take the next question. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U26	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question concerns vaccines. I understand that the various vaccines against COVID-19 are based on very different technologies. Are all of these equally reliable, say, undivided? In this context, very much has been said about the AstraZeneca vaccine, its relationship with age, and of course everyone else, Moderna, Pfizer, etc., as well as all those that are coming up, for example Sputnik, if it ever gets permission, etc. How does a person still have to view him? And does he have any chance of choosing his own vaccine or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U27	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, these vaccines have been developed with different technologies, it is adenovirus vector-based like AstraZeneca, it is mRNA-based like Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech or it is protein-based, as is still being developed in Novax and Sanofi. There are still certain differences in the technology of these vaccines themselves. I think it's best to trust health experts here. Just as we can't really see the exact way in which one or the other medicine is being developed, what technology has been used, what these components are, etc. It can be evaluated by the European Medicines Agency, it can be evaluated by the Estonian Medicines Agency, the National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis, as well as by a specific doctor or nurse who vaccinates a person. I personally trust all vaccines authorised and receiving in the European Union, regardless of the country or technology in which they are produced. And when we talk about credibility, I assure you that there are very high standards in the European Union. Perhaps if something gets a marketing authorisation here in any field, in fact, but above all I mean in the field of treatment, in the field of health, it is very clearly studied and controlled, i.e. the theoretical side, the practical side, the manufacturing side, the research side and the clinical phases, etc. Perhaps these vaccines are reliable, effective and safe. For all of them, their benefits have in any case been assessed as significant in preventing disease, reducing mortality. It can be said that both AstraZeneca, Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech, who have received a marketing authorisation, are simultaneously helping to prevent more serious illness and prevent death. In some cases, it may be a milder infection, a milder symptom, but it is not comparable to true and severe COVID-19 disease or to the effects that it may have on human health both in the short term and in the long term. The same applies to all of the following vaccines: As I pointed out earlier, the next time Janssen Pharmaceutica is authorised, probably on 11 March, and later, if the ex-ante evaluation is successful and a real application for a marketing authorisation is made, CureVac, Novax and Sputnik V will come.For all of them, if the European Commission and the European Medicines Agency find them reliable, effective and safe, that is exactly the case, i.e. it can be trusted and used in any case. But as of now, if you are contacted by a family doctor, family nurse or other health care professional, I recommend that you use vaccination now and now, regardless of exactly what the vaccine is offered, because, as I have indicated, all these vaccines are very effective in preventing serious illness, preventing serious problems. At present, there is a risk of infection with the corona virus and serious health damage from the COVID-19 disease just so great that delaying the receipt of any vaccine or, let's say, starting to think that whether I want or not I want something else, it is not just health-intelligent behaviour. At the moment, it is wise to be vaccinated, thereby giving protection to yourself and to your loved ones, and to contribute to getting out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U28	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U29	Minister, thank you very much. I would first of all like to congratulate you on your good work in the previous government office, where you and Prime Minister Jüri Ratas were able to combat enough corona vaccines for Estonia on a very limited vaccine market. Much of this success was based on pre-orders already made before the European Union granted authorisation for the use of vaccines. Today, it has unfortunately become apparent that producers are not always able to deliver the quantities allowed. But at the end of the tunnel, light is shining and supplies have improved and the procedure has also been initiated for CureVac, Novax, Sputnik and Janssen vaccines. That's my question. Although you have already touched on this issue briefly in your presentation, I will ask whether Estonia is planning to make a pre-order to vaccines currently under permit, so that, if they are authorised and Estonia still has a shortage of vaccines, we can deliver the agreed amount immediately. Will private clinics also have the opportunity to sell vaccines when sufficient vaccine reserves have been achieved in the second half of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U30	Thank you for your question. Let's answer in a row. Estonia has a separate pre-booking contract, a pre-sale contract actually with Janssen Pharmaceutica NV manufacturer to obtain 300000 vaccine courses. One of the advantages of this vaccine, which has not been mentioned before, is that it is expected to occur in a single dose. Perhaps if all the other vaccines require two doses, one should be sufficient for this vaccine. This clearly simplifies and accelerates the vaccination process for healthcare professionals, patients and the country. That's where the contract says at the beginning that we're gonna buy 300,000 vaccines. If two doses were required, it would have meant 600,000 doses, but since one dose is required, it means 300,000 doses. Secondly, the ex-ante evaluation is currently CureVac. Estonia has booked 660000 doses. The calculation then was that he would, in any case, cover the needs of our risk groups, because really, as you yourself rightly said, at that point we did not know who would be the first to arrive at the sales plan, who would be the first to complete the vaccine, etc. It was reasonable to spread the risks and not put all the eggs in one basket, as the popular wisdom of Estonia says. There will then be an ex-ante assessment of the Novax vaccine, of which Estonia will purchase 300,000 doses, namely 293000 doses. There are also advance agreements for them, and we have the opportunity to buy it as soon as the marketing authorisation is issued and then to start supplying the country. As far as vaccine Sputnik V is concerned, Estonia has not made a pre-purchase agreement within the framework of the European Union. This is an issue where no more in-depth debate has taken place at European Union level, as this 'ex-ante evaluation' has been introduced very freshly. Indeed, it was only as of 4 March that the so-called "rolling review" was actually launched, i.e. this more serious work to obtain a marketing authorisation. As regards private clinics and, more generally, the sale and import of these vaccines, yes, I am quite convinced that the second half of the year will be lighter in this view. Then the vaccine manufacturers themselves will also have more capacity. Now, unfortunately, they have had to reduce their delivery schedules, but I do not think that any producer wants to do so; the producer is also trying to offer a vaccine, to produce it more and to reach as many countries as possible, to people. However, at the moment there are simply problems with production capacity and there are also supply difficulties in obtaining certain raw materials. One of the feedback that many are talking about is that there is a real shortage of raw materials for the production of vaccines on the market. All of this has really meant that the quantities that have reached the country, both in Estonia and in the European Union as a whole, have also been smaller than we hoped and originally foreseen in the agreements. But in the second half of the year, I'm sure it'll be better. I am convinced that by then it will be possible to offer vaccines in the private market. This is based on the same criterion as I referred to earlier: if there is a European Union marketing authorisation and a positive assessment by the European Medicines Agency confirming that the vaccine is reliable, effective and safe, as in the case of other medicines, it is already possible to bring it to the country by other means.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U31	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for a very good presentation. My question today is a little wider than just vaccination. As we know in the media and social media, there is such a call that people who do not wear masks could also give up public hospital care if they need it. As your minister or government, have you discussed whether people who do not wear masks and are actually anti-masked will be provided with free hospital care if they get sick and go to hospital or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U33	Thank you very much for your question. I personally am a very strong supporter of solidarity and solidarity in health insurance. I think that all those people who, for whatever reason, feel that their knowledge and understanding of the control of any infectious disease, the measures necessary to prevent the spread of the virus, the treatment work and medicines are higher than those of health experts-scientists just need more explanation. They may need more patient persuasion and, no doubt, personal experience and understanding that healthcare is not in hocuspocus, it's not something you do on YouTube's basis. I think that if, for example, any of us gets involved in an accident, some trauma falls victim to us, we want to be helped and treated by experts in the field, and there would be a surgeon who has been trained by a doctor, who has been studying for six years and has been in residency for four or five years, who has been practicing his work. We do not want it to be done by a person who has watched some video on social media, how the car is being repaired, etc. It makes the same sense. Maybe it's inevitable to explain everything to people. I do not think it is right to deprive people of treatment for this reason, so it is not right to turn their backs on them in any way in the country's view. However, this is certainly a challenge for the education system, a health care challenge and a challenge for every resident of Estonia: not to contribute to the dissemination of such nonsense, not to contribute to all kinds of nonsense, to say the least. Until someone thinks, for example, that the land is flattened, he usually doesn't put himself and others at risk, but if he's starting to think he can heal better than people in the healthcare sector, and he's going to sell some sort of, I don't know, chlorine or other bullshit, then he's inevitably threatening himself and others. These are, in fact, already places where the country needs to react. However, I believe that the majority of Estonian society.. may sound patronizing, but still, the dominant majority of society is the faith of education, the faith of science, the faith of knowledge-based and evidence-based medicine. This is actually demonstrated by the relatively high level of interest in vaccination, which is also demonstrated, I would say, by the high level of compliance with the rules. Often these are all we see, exceptions. And the exceptions are often amplified, but the vast majority of people understand very clearly what crisis we are in and understand that a sustainable solution to this is a health solution, a solution for researchers, whether it is a vaccination or a reasonable compliance with the rules until adequate vaccination coverage is achieved. I certainly believe that the majority of society in Estonia is responsible, reasonable and health conscious.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U34	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please! Microphone, please! Maria, a microphone, please! No, we can't hear you right now. The microphone's out. It's not better. I can read your lips, but no, we still can't hear. I think you need to turn on the microphone in the system, so we can hear you. I'm sorry, I can't hear you right now. Please, check your settings, we'll leave you on hold. Look, I think you're gonna need an adjustment in the audio settings to keep it going. Until then, let's take Natalia Malleus' question. Please, Natalia Malleus! We can't hear Natalia Malleus either. Natalia, we really can't hear you. We have to leave you on hold, too. Let's get the Helmen Hunter next. Please, Helmen Hunter! One moment, please! Microphone Helmen to Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U35	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your thorough review. On one of the slides where you have identified the target groups to be vaccinated, this is the target groups (III), there are also social workers, kindergarten and childcare workers. We know that as of March 5, there was a very large difference even among the 80+ people who had received the vaccine. In my country, Viljandi, there was also a big difference, for example, in the northern Sakala municipality, as many as three times less vaccinated than in the town of Viljandi. There was this percentage of 11 or 13, I'd say, but so he was that almost triple the difference between Viljandi City. Can you say what I asked you about in Question Time in a situation where even those over 80 years of age have been vaccinated by 30%, when then is it real that social workers who are helping the elderly every day will be able to get the vaccine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U36	Yes, thank you very much for your question. I think it's a very correct raise. Here it really is that we have vaccines, you could say, two parallel lines, more precisely, three. There are Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, which are currently really only going to risk groups who are 70 or more and with certain diagnoses. Mostly, we are carrying out vaccinations over 80 years in counties that have actually achieved an average coverage of about 30%, and we are, in any case, aiming, by the end of March, that everyone who wishes to have had this opportunity. Social workers and social workers, such as education, rescuers and policemen, are currently being vaccinated with the AstraZeneca vaccine. This vaccine is recommended by the National Committee on Immunoprophylaxis for people under 70 years of age, and maybe this age limit will change in the future. Vaccination of social workers has actually started, and lists have been distributed this week on the basis of which social workers and service providers are vaccinated. As far as I know, there must have been 3,600. Through the Social Insurance Institution, these data have been aggregated and forwarded to the Health Insurance Fund. For example, in the case of Tallinn specifically, vaccinations are carried out by the municipal family doctor centre, which has already vaccinated about 500 social workers and in total there will be a further 1000 social workers. They will be accompanied later by their own carers. It has really been more complicated with its own carers, because, as you well know, there is no national register where this total number is written, but it is actually extremely large, we are talking about 70,000 people or even more in this case. Perhaps we must take into account that the vaccination of these people is rather carried out through the family medical system, to a certain extent also, say, through other front lines, when a person is working in some areas, for example, where vaccination is already being offered. But it certainly makes sense for people to communicate honestly and directly with their family doctor or family nurse. Perhaps when it comes to a person who cares for someone of a high age who is at risk and who cannot be vaccinated, for example because of a lack of mobility, you can certainly ask for vaccination. I know that family doctors and family nurses have generally used this practice, precisely to contribute once again to reducing the risk of infection and maintaining the health of this particular family and thus also to protecting the person being cared for. Maybe we can really get to people through different lines. As I have pointed out, Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna are currently going all over 70+ people, in the case of AstraZeneca, two thirds go to risk groups below 70, but with certain diagnoses, and one third goes to frontline workers, of which education, social affairs, internal security and future frontlines are now the main focus. Of course, we also include kindergartens and childcare.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U37	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! On 15 February 2021, an e-mail was sent to the employees of PERH, namely the nurses, warning them that their requests for leave would not be taken into account in the event of a refusal to receive vaccination, their requests for work schedule, no additional payment for the current month, and no additional hours would be allowed. In addition, those who refuse the vaccine will not be reimbursed in quarantine by the hospital, i.e. the employee will receive only 70% of the salary. Quarantine but vaccinated workers receive money on the first day, while unvaccinated workers receive money on the second day. How do you comment on such action, and what do you intend to do to stop such pressure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U39	Thank you very much for your question. Well, it's actually a little bit broader. There are also people who, on the contrary, want similar support measures, support mechanisms for people who have been vaccinated more so as to encourage vaccination. For example, let's start with an example of the sick days you brought. Indeed, in the case of sickness days, if this prohibition corresponds to one of the grounds of the claim, the law requires compensation from the employer from the second day until the fifth day, and from the sixth day, the sickness fund pays 70% of the person's current income. Everything beyond that is the employer's own response and opportunity, but not the responsibility. I really know that there are hospitals that have used this practice: when a person has vaccinated himself and then falls ill for whatever reason, it has actually taken place, regardless of his own actions, i.e. regardless of the fact that he has contributed to his own protection, and his sick days have been compensated by that amount. This is actually the choice of the employer, it is the flexibility of the employer and the possibility of decision-making. You can't force anyone to vaccinate, you don't do that. Generally, if a person refuses for any reason, the employer and employee will try to find the best possible solution. For example, if a person works in the COVID-19 department or has worked there so far, it is obviously a problem, obviously it is a risk. In such a case, it is wise to look around to see if it is possible to offer him any other work, to find another solution. If, for example, he works somewhere where he does not come into contact with patients, then clearly the level of risk is lower and to this extent there is no danger to him or others. However, vaccination is reasonable, even for the protection of your own health, regardless of the position in which someone is engaged or working. But, yeah, the subject is really wider. There are those who encourage and want more action in this regard. We do not have any penalty mechanisms, as I referred to, we do not have any enforcement mechanisms at national level. It doesn't have to be. That's right, it's not. However, some employers create some motivational opportunities and further support those workers who, by their behaviour, actually contribute to reducing in-hospital colleges and increasing hospital continuity, precisely in the view that there are more people who can work. We can see how vaccination has reduced the incidence of infections in hospitals and has increased the performance of hospitals compared to the pre-vaccination period. In fact, I can quite honestly say that, given the current need for hospital care, this morning 640 patients were in hospital without vaccination, in fact hospitals could no longer cope with this pressure. Perhaps vaccination has prevented the addition of 100 patients and the illness of hundreds of healthcare professionals. We know our neighbouring countries, such as Lithuania, where there were at the height of the infection before vaccination, when there were more than 2 000 health professionals in COVID-19 patients at the same time. So, obviously, this is a huge additional burden on the health care system if you have to do more than normal work on smaller staff in parallel and, in addition, to take care of and care for the health of the same health care professionals themselves. Perhaps in this view, I understand hospitals when they make certain choices precisely to motivate and support those people who themselves contribute to ensuring the continuity of the hospital in times of crisis. And when it comes to everything else, pressure or so, if it really does happen, it's a different issue. Like I said, you can't do that. But the motivation to offer, to offer additional benefits and to provide additional support is all the employer's own right if, based on the risk assessment, he sees that vaccination against a particular disease helps people to contribute more and provide more added value to both the hospital and the Estonian health care system as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U40	Does Riina Sikkut have a procedural question, or did the question go with the wrong sign?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U41	Thank you. I just wanted to say that during Helmen Hunter's question, I was expelled from the trial system. Is it possible for me to ask my question, or was I pushed out of that line as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U42	We gotta get back in line. That's right. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I brought to you yesterday the fact of what happened in Valkla's nursing home, where the use of violence and threats of vaccination were subject to a forced vaccination. Yesterday you were not aware of this, but since this incident is your responsibility and there is a gross violation of human rights and constitution, I ask what knowledge you are in today. Yesterday you said you weren't aware of that. And the second question, which is also relevant, I think. The government imposes long-term restrictions. People can't go to work anymore, but they have to pay bank loans and other taxes, even though there is no income. Does the government intend to put in place any measures, such as minimum wages, etc., in this case? Or are these people starving to death?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U44	Thank you for your question. In the case of Valkla, I did indeed ask to examine whether such an incident had taken place and what information was known about it. I appreciate it if you are able to send me any written references to it or any chronology to ask this authority to look into it more closely. The social sector will now be curated by my good colleague, but the health sector as such, including vaccination, is, of course, within my jurisdiction, in any case within the competence of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Second part of the question. It is well-accepted that there is an important compensatory party to any limitation. As we know, we have launched a compensation mechanism, with the unemployment fund paying out 38 million euros to compensate for the restrictions previously imposed. I think it is right to extend it in a situation where the restrictions go beyond March. We already know today that they apply until at least mid-April. To be honest, it is likely that, at least in part, the duration of the restrictions will have to be extended even more. The high level of infection may begin to decline, but we do not have the sensible and the ability to limit ourselves so that we relax them again in the meantime, but we will tighten them again in the face of a new rise. Here we need to be sustainable and consistent. The relaxation of restrictions is always a more complex process than their implementation and must take place even more gradually in order not to create a new increase in infection. So compensation is very important. I think there are several dimensions: one is the employer's view and the employee's view, i.e. compensation for his salary; the other is, of course, the additional costs that arise when such restrictions are met and the short-term start-up takes place; the third is definitely the income support side, because the local authorities are also paying income support to people who really have income difficulties. So there's a lot of places where people need more support. As Minister of the Ministry of Social Affairs, regardless of whether I am responsible for health, work or the social side, I certainly support comprehensive compensation for people who, as a result of this crisis, are at risk of losing their jobs, of losing their pay or of experiencing wider difficulties in coping. We have actually taken action in the previous government and also in the current government. Now that we start putting together an additional budget, we also need to look exactly at how to support people who are on sick leave, how to support people who are temporarily absent from work due to restrictions, and how to support the unemployment fund's budget, because the unemployment fund can, in turn, transfer resources to people. Understandably, the burden on the health insurance fund, the unemployment fund, the local authorities and the social sector has increased at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U45	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question very quickly: when will those interested get the vaccine - those who are willing to pay for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U47	Thank you for your question. When we talk about vaccines and vaccines acquired in the European Union's joint procurement in general, this is free of charge this year, as agreed by the government. It is certainly important that, in the coming years, at risk groups are guaranteed the possibility of a free vaccine, as in the case of influenza vaccines, they are residents of a nursing home or they are older people, precisely to prevent infections, serious hospital needs and mortality. In the second half of the year, it is likely that different producers will be able to place vaccines on the market and through wholesalers into countries that are not booked by the EU in joint agreements or which have not been ordered in advance by large countries. At the moment, the question is that producers do not have that much production capacity. Rather, there have been problems even with the implementation of current contracts. Within the framework of these agreements, we really share vaccines in solidarity, i.e. on the basis of medical indications, not on the basis of human wealth itself, but precisely on the basis of the extent to which there is a risk of infection or the extent to which someone is at risk of hospital care. I think that is also right, because right now we are really at the top of an epidemic where any vaccine can save lives. In this light, it is only on this basis that it is sensible and correct to target vaccines. The second half of the year is likely to be somewhat different because there will be more vaccines than there will be, and there will certainly be opportunities to sell, donate or otherwise deliver them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U48	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U49	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear Minister, I have this question: are there any plans to bring in paid vaccines in the near future for those people who might be willing to get vaccinated for some amount of money to pay for it themselves? And was giving free vaccines or, say, giving to people born consensually in the government, or were there other opinions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U50	Thank you for your question. I basically already answered the first half of it. It's probably the second half of the year, maybe next year. It is now very difficult to say the date on which the producers themselves can place vaccines on the market and offer them for a fee. Indeed, in accordance with the European Union's own agreements and national agreements, these vaccines, which have been acquired through joint procurement by the European Union, are primarily targeted at groups at risk, people at higher risk of infection. The previous Government of the Republic decided that this year vaccination is free of charge for everyone. It must be acknowledged that there were debates and discussions on this at the time, too, that since vaccine prices are high enough, what exactly is the fair distribution mechanism? At the time, the decision we reached was that, in 2021, we will fix that the vaccine is free for the person, and next year, the subject remained in the air. Personally, I also support that vaccination for at least risk groups should be free of charge in the coming years. If we are talking at all about combating and preventing the spread of an epidemic, we must take into account the fact that it is older people or people with chronic diseases; solidarity, access to vaccines, access to vaccinations at home is important here. All of this, not on the basis of a person's wallet or wealth, but on the basis of a medical indication and a real need. Certainly, a debate will now have to be held in this government in 2022 to decide what the logic of vaccination should be, but I personally support, at least in the context of the crisis, when we see that the pandemic continues, the widest possible possibility of giving free vaccination to the Estonian population. This opportunity will certainly be guaranteed this year and it will certainly make sense for all people to use it this year to ensure protection against this disease. Hopefully, it will be possible to do so later, if necessary, if there is a need for a booster, etc., in the same way free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U51	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U52	Thank you, Minister, for this good and interesting presentation and also for the answers. However, I would like to clarify a few more things. Let's go on with the same subject of payback first. The most concerned people who are not insured at the health insurance fund, for example, are at risk. Is there any way that they can get paid? And the second question, of course, is the right of workers to decide on their own health records. For example, is the operator entitled to ask the worker if the person has been vaccinated? Can the operator put on the wall a list of those who are or have not been vaccinated on their holdings? And finally, can a person be fired, for example, if somehow he doesn't want to be vaccinated? Sometimes a person can also have healthful reasons, not often, but that can happen. What are the rights of a worker to retain his or her job if he or she is not vaccinated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U53	Thank you very much for the questions. Once again, a clear theme setting. First of all, this fee-free party. In Estonia, COVID-19 is available free of charge to all residents, regardless of whether they are insured or not. For example, if a person is at risk and uninsured, it is right for him or her to contact a family doctor or a family nurse because he or she has the same right to receive vaccination. In the same way, when we are talking about 'national lists', we have taken into account all people in Estonia when ordering vaccines, both at risk groups, frontline workers, but they are generally insured people • as well as the general population. Perhaps if we want to prevent this epidemic, there must definitely be no distinctions on the basis of security. And more broadly, I think it is right at all to review this health insurance side in order to provide health insurance for all residents of Estonia. The fact that we have 6% of the population with either intermittent or permanent lack of security is actually a problem. It is more harmful to public health as a whole than securing these people. Access to care for them must also be ensured. This, of course, requires a bit more consensus and debate on what basis and how it works in fiscal policy, etc., but I think that this is an objective that should be pursued. Now the other side. When we talk about health data, of course they are not for walling, they are not for distributing to everyone. Health records must be respected. There are jobs where it is justified to ask about vaccination, where it is justified to put the basic assumption that the person is vaccinating himself. Before I gave an example, this place could be the COVID department, the intensive care department, or more generally the treatment of infectious diseases. But even then, the employer always has the right and obligation to offer the employee other tasks, if possible, and to find an agreement or compromise between the employer and the employee. At least 95% of the jobs are not justified by such coercive or compulsory vaccination. This is justified, for example, in places where a person comes into contact with COVID-19 patients every day. In this case, the risk is clearly just so high that there is a presumption: a person has either been vaccinated or is working in another department, another sector. But, of course, in the case of the publication of health data, the employee's own right and choice is whether or not he wants to share them more widely. As a general rule, employers must, of course, not and will not do so in such a way that they make this information available to everyone, the whole collective. Vaccination is exactly the same health information as someone who, for example, has a diagnosis, some treatment, etc. I believe that none of us wants such data to become available to the whole of our collective or to the general public.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U54	Good Minister, the time you've planned has come to an end this time. We thank you for your report, and if anyone has a specific question for you, I hope they can also present it directly to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U56	Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair as representative of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, Maivi Parve. Or is he electronic? Mayi participates electronically. Maivi, wait a minute, we can't hear you right now. Can you talk for a second so we can check if we can hear you? No, I'm sorry, I can't hear you right now. See if you can check your audio settings. The video is nice, but unfortunately, we can't hear you. Now, try it. No, I'm sorry, I can't hear you. Okay. Our system indicates we should hear, but your own computer's settings probably won't allow it. Then I have this suggestion: since we are not listening to Maiv at the moment, we ask the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to contact Maiv and check his connection. But since both the presentations by Maiv Parve and Mari-Anne Härma are 15 minutes and the questions-answers are 15 minutes, we will proceed with the presentation by the Deputy Director General of the Health Board, Mari-Anne Härma, and we will return to the report by the Health Insurance Fund in half an hour. Deputy Director General of the Health Board Mari-Anne Härma. 15 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U57	Thanks, everybody! And hello by me too! The Health Board is left with this technical and perhaps a bit boring in the organisation of the vaccine. But I'm going to open up a little bit of what the Health Board is doing at the moment, mostly to run the vaccine. These are three points. Firstly, I am talking about ordering vaccines, ordering orders, secondly, I am talking a little bit about the principles of stock stocks, how we keep stocks, which principles, and, thirdly, a little about logistics, which principle logistics is currently organised. In order for service providers to be able to place their orders at all, they must be available to the health service providers for the purpose of vaccinators, these are hospitals, family doctors or welfare institutions, pre-announced by the Health Insurance Fund, who have agreed on the week in which the order may be placed, the exact amount that the service provider has the right to order, and then provide further instructions on how to operate. Secondly, what is needed is access to the ordering environment of the Health Board. Most healthcare providers have access to it. There are cases where there is no access, they are handled by the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre, where service providers can contact and register for access to the ordering environment. The principle of placing orders is that all orders must be placed three working days in advance and the quantity must correspond to the prescribed limit given by the Health Insurance Fund to the service providers. Simply examples of such limits: the family doctor's list has the right to order a minimum of 100 doses, but if the family doctor only injects his own list of patients, then there is no right to order more than 100 doses. Maybe 100 doses of AstraZeneca is a limit. For example, if a family doctor injects schoolteachers or is given some other vaccination responsibilities, he or she is entitled to order more of the vaccine. But in general, these limits are very firmly established. In the case of Pfizer/BioNTech, the first doses are allowed to be ordered now, this week for 30 dose lists. And we're trying to stick to these limits so that as many people as possible can get the vaccine distributed. If the order is submitted to the Health Board, it is correctly presented or incorrectly presented, in any case an automatic response from the ordering environment indicates that the order has been registered. It says your order's under review at the Health Board. During the next day, the Health Board will examine each order individually and check whether this order complies with the right granted by the Health Insurance Fund last week to the service providers, whether they were entitled to order the first doses this week, whether this order corresponds to the quantity that has been confirmed by this week that only 100 doses per list can be ordered, and whether the order has been completed in good time, i.e. three working days before the order is executed. If the order meets all these requirements, then the Health Board will send the following confirmation letter that yes, your order is confirmed. The confirmation of the order shall state the amount of doses and the date on which the order will be delivered. If the order does not meet the requirements, then there are two options. If the order has been incorrectly placed, for example the customer is not entitled to order this week, the Health Board will reject the order. The second option is that the order will not be rejected, it will be confirmed, but the Health Board will adjust the order. For example, if a family doctor or hospital has ordered, has been given the right to order 100 doses, but has ordered 300 doses, then the Health Board will adjust the order to 100 doses, confirm it. This is one of the places where we have now had many debates. The question is, why does the Health Department reduce the dose, i.e. if I've ordered 300 doses, why do I only get 100? This is due to strict pre-defined limits, which the Health Insurance Fund has already agreed with the subscribers last week. At other times, a certain amount of vaccines has been ordered, but before the order is confirmed, patients have already been invited to vaccinate. There are few cases, but there have been. In this case, we will try to solve the problem by asking the part that has placed major orders, such as hospitals that still have people unvaccinated, to lend certain quantities to those vaccinees who have been invited by the patients, but the quantity ordered has not been fixed before or has not been fixed in the amount they have ordered. The stock balance is that we currently have three types of vaccine in the Health Board and [at all] in Estonia. For all these vaccines, the principles of stockholding are slightly different. First of all, on the basis of the AstraZeneca vaccine, we're not keeping any stock, at least until the end of March. That means all the doses that come into the Health Board's warehouse this week will go out by the end of the week. We don't keep any supplies in the Health Board's warehouse anymore. Last week's 16800 doses went out at the end of the week without exception, the stock was zero. From week 14 or the beginning of April, we start issuing other doses of AstraZeneca. The principle is very simple, because at the moment the first dose of AstraZeneca has not been vaccinated for eight weeks between the first and second doses of AstraZeneca. So when this eight weeks comes out of the first vaccinations, we're gonna start delivering other doses. And then they start keeping a certain stock. In the case of Pfizer/BioNTech, the principle of stockholding is that we keep a second dose in stock, i.e. the second dose of the next week until the moment the next delivery arrives. Just to make sure that if anything happens to this delivery, all those people who have the second dose scheduled for next week will definitely get their second dose. And then we have the Moderna vaccine, which we don't know for sure about at the moment. Maybe the dates when the doses arrive will change. That's why we're currently keeping Moderna in the Health Board stock in such a way that we can cover all the other doses before the next delivery arrives. Plus another 10% margin because the day that Moderna arrives may change, and we need to make sure that the stock of these days is also covered and that all people who have a second dose are sure to receive this second dose, even if this supply is delayed. Logistics so far that the first and second doses of each vaccine type have a different logistical principle. On Mondays, we usually do not deliver the first doses, because deliveries come in on Mondays. Perhaps the logic of the first doses is that they have a definite delivery schedule depending on the time of arrival of the batch. If the doses come on Tuesday, as is currently the case today, the AstraZeneca doses will arrive, then we will start issuing these doses tomorrow. We have agreed with the Health Insurance Fund last week on certain counties where the vaccinees will be given doses, which means that tomorrow we will start sending the vaccine to the counties where the vaccineers ordered and got their confirmation last week. With the other doses being given, we give the other doses all the time. Perhaps as soon as the vaccineer reaches the time of the second dose, these other doses will be issued exactly as ordered. But here we also observe the principle that an order must be placed three working days in advance. And these rules must be observed. The vaccines we have in storage need different transport and storage conditions. AstraZeneca is a vaccine stored at +4 degrees, Pfizer/BioNTech wants to receive a At the moment, all vaccines can be stored and collected by the Health Board. We also use the teams and cars of the Health Board for transport, as well as those belonging to our contract partner who helps to transport these vaccines across Estonia. At the moment, we also use part of our contract partner's assistance in storing the storage stocks of syringes and storing leaflets. At least as far as the Health Board has received data on the effectiveness of vaccines at present, we [are aware] of the fact that all vaccines are highly effective vaccines. We've only got seven sick people who've been infected since the end of the course. The total number of people who have been infected after the first dose or who have been infected after vaccination is 311. Those who have been infected after the second dose, but not after the end of the course, are 38. And those who have been infected since the end of the shed are seven. This is a very small percentage and, at the moment, we know that all vaccines are very effective precisely to prevent serious illness and also to prevent infection. Everything from me now. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U58	Thank you. First, Imre Sooäär asks. Please, Imre!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U59	Thank you, good manager. My question was to the minister, but I'll ask the waitress. How do you feel about the opinion expressed in the Eesti Päevaleht, in which Indrek Kasela says that Europe as a whole has failed and that Estonia should be more egotistical when buying vaccines, such as the UK, Malta or Israel? He also thinks that it is completely absurd that ministers themselves are unvaccinated and sitting in self-insulation. It is not possible to lead the country out of the crisis if the leaders lie in the Corona departments soon. Hence the question: why does the Health Board not propose that ministers and crisis managers be vaccinated, who, at the same time, would set an example for the anti-vaccine group? And two: if hospitals work seven days a week, why do vaccination decrease on weekends? Couldn't the private sector contribute more to vaccination here, and shouldn't Estonia take the initiative to quickly move the digital vaccination passport to the world? Today's paper passports are, frankly, ridiculous in the digital age; they are without any security features; they can be duplicated with any copier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U60	Thank you. I will come forward from behind with these questions, and I will answer as much as I can answer them on behalf of the Health Board. As far as I know, both the Estonian state and the whole of Europe are working on the vaccination passport in order to agree on the data we accept in order to bring this passport to the market as soon as possible. Estonia is one of the countries that has taken a more active role in developing this digital passport. Now, was there a question of vaccination this weekend? Vaccination is already increasing on weekends. Most family doctors still work during the week, we have to take into account that they also have to manage to ensure that all other treatments work. On weekends, we have targeted more hospitals to vaccinate school workers, teachers, social workers and also domestic security staff. At least I know that there are also negotiations at the moment to further increase the volume of weekend vaccinations. What was the next question? I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U61	But then we'll take the next one. And if Imrel left anything else to scratch, I'm sure he'll be able to contact you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U62	Thank you. Am I there? Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I have a question about whether Estonia is interested and whether vaccine producers have offered Estonia the opportunity to participate in studies. Participation in studies is of great interest to vaccine producers, and this may also provide an opportunity to obtain larger quantities of vaccine outside its framework agreement, if permitted. Have the pharmaceutical or vaccine manufacturers offered Estonia participation in the studies? As a small country, Estonia could have some advantages here. Or has Estonia ever been interested in participating in such studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U63	Thank you. Clinical trials, clinical trials in particular are currently being conducted by the Agency. As far as I know, some of the vaccine studies that are currently being carried out are also Estonian people [included]. And it may also be important to know that for all vaccines currently used in Estonia, the further clinical study phases of the Pfizer/BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Moderna are still ongoing. Perhaps the Agency will actively collect information on all side effects and then also forward them to the European Medicines Agency and also to vaccine manufacturers so that they can collect long-term safety and efficacy information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U64	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I had a question for the Minister, but I think you can answer it or comment on it. I know how difficult this job you're doing is, but despite that, I'm quite critical. If, at first, there were logistical problems in the case of vaccines, it is as if the public has the impression that a problem has arisen in the case of family doctors, although we know that there are no problems with vaccination by family doctors. In fact, there are too few vaccines, but if there were enough in Estonia, it seems to me that the problems we have due to the organisers would be even greater. Has confusing communication been the conscious and deliberate action of the organisers that we are in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U66	Crazy communication is certainly not the goal of the organisers themselves. I guess one of the basic needs of this vaccination that we have at the moment is that we have enough doses so that we can inject them into people as soon as possible. How many doses we have is not up to us at the moment, but how quickly they reach people can be arranged, and this requires a great deal of flexibility. Each system built on flexibility is a task with a wide range of variables and a need for "focus." If these variables change, then inevitably any system that needs to adapt very quickly will also require rapid communication. But indeed, communication with such flexibility cannot be definitively clear. Indeed, these variables become too often to communicate in advance in the long term with sufficient clarity to be understood by everyone. At the moment, we are focusing on getting the vaccine to vaccinators as soon as possible and on vaccinators being able to vaccinate people as quickly as possible. At this point, if this speed, velocity or [speed] significance disappears from this point, flexibility will also disappear. Flexibility so that we can deliver these vaccines quickly, flexibility that we can choose the days when the vaccine arrives, flexibility in who gets the first dose or the second dose, and at what time and how much. When these processes become less flexible, clearer and more understandable communication is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U67	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, strength to work on your vaccination plan! My personal recommendation is, of course, to constantly update, review and not to hesitate to change the vaccination plan. Just explain the changes with sufficient depth and definitely involve public figures to send a positive signal to people that the vaccine does not have to be chosen by the manufacturer. Surely it is wise to do so so that we can get back to the normal rhythm of life. But I have a question, above all, about the exit plan. We will follow the vaccination plan and do everything we can. There's a problem with deliveries, we understand that. How are we going to get out of this situation? What is your personal position on the possible opening up, the introduction of passports to support the economy, the service sectors, and also on the one-off tests on which the debate is currently taking place? How could they help us get out of this situation, in a month or two or three?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U69	Thank you for your question. The exit plan is something that the State Chancellery is currently working on. The Health Board is also involved in the preparation of this plan. As far as I am concerned, this plan is not yet public, but it is moving forward, and now is exactly the right time to do it if we are going into a phase of extensive restrictions. But, unfortunately, I cannot bring forward any concrete proposals right now. From the rapid tests so much that the rapid tests are now coming to Estonia more and more. Discussions are also taking place on how rapid tests, when we are talking about rapid antigen tests that determine the presence of an active virus in human saliva or nasal congestion, more widely [to be used]. Opportunities are being sought to introduce them more widely. There are certainly many more opportunities to emerge from the crisis than we saw a year ago. But I think these principles are similar to [them] that any departure must be gradual. These services, which are the least necessary, will be opened last and, above all, those that are the most important ones, will be opened last. But once again, the exit plan is underway. I believe that it will be a matter of the coming weeks, if we are already talking more about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U70	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U71	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your excellent review. But I'm asking the same question I asked the Minister. There are many family doctor centers and even adjacent [family doctor centres] can operate in different ways: one has to have a [vaccine] and it does not go to waste, then anyone, à la like chancellor Priske, but in another family doctor's centre, people who are in a risk group, and I am not talking about older people at all, but also younger people who have also turned to me, can't. Does the Health Board somehow monitor this situation so that it is more or less uniform? Although, yes, those hundred or tens of them make it difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U72	Thank you. This issue has certainly been raised earlier. I expect the representative of the family doctor's association will discuss this subject a little bit. At the moment, the health department does not regulate or control it. Our main objective is to make ordering, delivery as smooth as possible and as comfortable as possible for family doctors so that patients can be invited as much as possible and then vaccinated. There will certainly be regional exceptions. In some places people are a little harder to convince, rejections may be a little more, some other failures occur. Not everyone can work the same way, and we don't expect everyone to work the same way. I think that, at least in the current situation, this would be very much required. But I hope that the representative of the family doctors' association can comment a little more on what these specific circumstances have been, that there have been cases of this kind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U73	And now one more quick question and an answer. Last Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U74	Thank you. I'm asking about uninsured people. We have tens and tens of thousands of people, often young and mobile, who do not have health insurance. Do those on the family doctor's list receive their vaccine through a good family doctor, or are separate communication planned? Is there any way that uninsured persons will remain on the end of the vaccination schedule, or will they, along with others, receive the vaccine according to their risk class? What is the plan for uninsured people, and how do they get the information?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U75	Unfortunately, I have to admit that I am in debt at the moment of reply. In the meantime, discussions have been held in uninsured persons. As far as I know today, enough vaccines have been ordered to allow all people to be vaccinated, including uninsured persons. Just as we have family doctor's watch centres for COVID testing and treatment, which also deal with uninsured persons, a similar principle should apply to the vaccination of uninsured persons. But again, maybe more specific information can be provided by a representative of the family doctors' association.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U76	Dear Mari-Anne Härma! Thank you very much for this presentation and for answering the questions. We will move forward and try to get back in touch with the sickness fund [representative]. Let's see if Maiv's raft is now on the screen with a sound and a picture. Now, good Maivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U77	Hello, everyone again! Any word from me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U78	Yeah, now you're very nice with both the picture and the sound in this Riigikogu hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U79	Very well! I'm so sorry for causing this mess. Dear Riigikogu! Thank you for the opportunity to explain the arrangements for vaccination against COVID-19. The Health Insurance Fund is responsible for implementing the vaccination plan through our contractual partners. In doing so, we are primarily guided by the national vaccination plan. Vaccination is carried out today by around 500 healthcare providers. These are hospitals, family doctors, as well as, for example, specialised medical care and nursing providers who are not part of hospital network development plan hospitals. The Defence Forces and the prison medical services are also giving vaccination today. I'll tell you more about the vaccination arrangements. After all, we started with the vaccination of health care professionals: hospitals and family doctors in the hospital network vaccinated the staff of their own institutions and then the hospitals also helped vaccinate the specialist medical care, dental care and nursing care providers outside hospitals in the hospital network. Most of them have been vaccinated, while vaccination will certainly continue. Last week, new vaccinees were added to healthcare professionals, such as 67 doctors and about 200 nurses. We believe that vaccination should continue at this rate. We expect that we will still strive for greater coverage of the group of health professionals, which Minister Tanel Kiik also spoke about. Now, I will explain the vaccination of the front line workers, including the larger groups. We have agreed that in the first group of frontier workers, internal security and educational staff need to be vaccinated. Vaccination of police and rescue workers has been organised through our contract partner, with the help of Qvalitas Medical Centre, an occupational health care provider. In order to administer the vaccination of staff in general education schools, we collected data on all those who wished to receive the vaccine with the help of the Ministry of Education and Research. The lists that reached the Health Insurance Fund were forwarded to the nearest vaccination centre of the educational establishment. The vaccination itself took place mainly at the hospital network development plan hospital at the place where the educational institution was located or at a family doctor's centre designated by the health insurance fund. In order to speed up vaccination, we also involved other health care providers. The vaccination of police and rescue workers as well as staff in general education schools is in the final stages today. The persons on the collected lists will be vaccinated this week. But once again, just as in the vaccination of health care professionals, there are groups that, of course, if new vaccine seekers are added, the vaccination process will continue. Now there's the vaccination of the front line workers. There was a brief discussion of [this] here too. At present, the staff of kindergartens and childcare facilities are being vaccinated and this week the vaccination of other social frontier workers will also be started. For example, local social workers, child protection workers, home care workers, carers are targeted for vaccination. This list is longer. To the Health Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Board has communicated the names of approximately 3600 social workers. The vaccination arrangements here are similar to those for staff in general education schools. For example, 35 treatment institutions across Estonia vaccinate social workers. Now for the vaccination of the high-risk groups. There have been a lot of talk about it, and there have been questions, and the media are also interested in who these people are at risk. People assigned to them according to age or related diseases are at risk. When talking about vaccination, the main focus for risk groups is primarily on the vaccination of age groups 80+ and 70+. In this context, it is important that people of these age groups receive vaccinations with their family doctor. To ensure this, vaccination has been carried out on the five-week matrix principle, where each family doctor received one week's opportunity to order the vaccine and vaccinate the most elderly members of his list. Last week this five-week cycle was over for Estonia. And from that week, we're moving forward in a three-week step. The order's the same. For example, this week you will be able to order a portion of the vaccine from family doctors in Harju County, as well as family doctors in Järva, Jõgeva, Pärnu, Rapla, Valga and Viljandi counties. For the next two weeks, the vaccine can be ordered by family doctors in the next counties. The aim here is still to include all lists of family doctors. The experience of the first five weeks tells us that most family doctors have actually begun vaccination, carried out vaccination. As of yesterday, however, we have numbers [which show that] 785 family doctors had not begun vaccination with 32 family doctors. There are different reasons for this. For example, one of the reasons was that the family nurse was ill this week when it was possible to order a vaccine. It is certainly important to keep an eye on the fact that all family doctors will still join the vaccination. And if any of the family doctors need help in vaccinating their high-risk groups, we will certainly be able to do so in cooperation with the family doctors. When I talk about vaccination of groups at risk, I will also briefly address the current state of vaccination of institutions. At the end of the line there is the vaccination of the clients and employees of the care institutions. I dare say that all our institutions have received vaccination. According to our statistics today, more than 14,000 people have been vaccinated with the first dose of staff-customers in care institutions. But obviously here, too, the vaccination process continues. If there is an increase in the number of people who wish to receive vaccination in the institutions, these are workers who so far have not grown up to receive vaccination, or are new customers of the institutions, then their vaccination must also continue. What else to talk about? A great deal of attention today is how to make the vaccination process smoother and less labour-intensive for the vaccineer. To this end, we intend to automate the registration of vaccination through the national digital registry. The necessary development work has been carried out and we are currently piloting the registration of vaccinations, where we give people the opportunity to book the time of vaccination at the digital registry. This can be done from Monday this week and [this option opens] to people aged 50 to 61 with certain illnesses, who form part of the risk groups of family doctors. These people can be invited to receive vaccination via the digital registry. Currently, only a small number of healthcare institutions use registration via digital registration. This option is available to all hospitals with a hospital network development plan, they have an interface, and several family doctor centres have joined. But new agencies are joining, and there is interest in it. Finally, briefly, the distribution of vaccines. Mari-Anne Härma stopped on it, but [I speak also], what is the state of play? It is certainly the aim of the Health Insurance Fund to ensure rapid distribution of vaccines, to ensure rapid access to vaccines and to ensure that rapid vaccination is carried out. That's what we keep in mind, and that's what we work for every day. What's our status today? This week we started with [that] -- known we have three vaccines -- that the stock of both Pfizer and Moderna's vaccine, in stock, was actually a second-dose booking this week. At the moment, we have over 50,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine in Estonia. At the beginning of the week, the entire vaccine delivery of AstraZeneca had been delivered to vaccine recipients. As of this morning, about 10,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine are expected to be vaccinated, which is actually about two thirds or a little less than this last delivery. And actually, that last figure came to us in the second half of last week. At the same time, astraZeneca's vaccine deliveries have very clear 'work orders'. The hospital network development plan [hospitals] continues to vaccinate, for example, frontier workers, family doctors in particular their 70-year-olds and younger people at risk. So we, as organisers, have an estimate that the vaccine residue of AstraZeneca today will also be injected in the coming days. The new AstraZeneca supply, over 21000 doses, will reach Estonia this evening. Here, too, there are "orders" on it, and the delivery of this vaccine will reach the vaccinators tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. To conclude, what should we say? It has to be said that, in fact, our biggest challenge today is to give the vaccinators a longer plan for the order of the vaccine. It is asked, it is expected, and it is understandable that it is necessary. But it has been really difficult to do so so so far because of unstable supplies of vaccines, both in terms of time and volume. Thank you. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U80	We really are going on with the questions. First, Kert wants Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U81	Thank you! My question, I imagine, and I believe that all the performers today would be able to answer, but right now that's what you've become. For how long will these vaccines ensure immunity? And what happens after the vaccine wears off? Is this whole mess with the vaccination thing starting again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U82	Thank you for your question. I don't think I can answer that very well, it's dealt with by the E.R.A., and professionals know more. But I can comment that we all wait and follow with interest the longer projections and the effects of the same vaccine. New information, more material coming in. The effects of the side effects will be monitored, even here with these three vaccines. The adverse reactions after the first dose and after the second dose for Pfizer and Moderna vaccine are considered whether there are differences, for example, between AstraZeneca and AstraZeneca, where the booster time is longer, what happens when the booster time is extended, and what is the overall effect of the vaccination. I'm sure no one can give a single answer. We still need to look to the future again and look at the materials from those countries where vaccination started before us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U83	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U84	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, thank you for your substantive review. Question: if you are now going to convince some people to vaccinate, what would your arguments be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U85	Thank you for your question. That's a good question. Here I really encourage all of us. We are all together in this vaccination process, and that is our responsibility, and part of this responsibility is also to encourage vaccination. These vaccines, which reach the Estonian country, reach other countries, have obviously been checked for quality, and this quality mark is given by the existence of a marketing authorisation. We have three good effective vaccines. Going to vaccinate, we're obviously protecting ourselves from this disease. We might think that if we get coronavir, maybe in our case this disease will be easier. But we don't know any further effects, this risk is unpredictable. We do not know how long or hard this can go and whether our illness affects the illness of our loved ones. So, obviously, in order to mitigate this risk today, there is an evidence-based method of vaccination, not fear of vaccination, not fear of one, another or third vaccine, take the courage to take it, consult your family doctor or family nurse if necessary, who advises, and definitely carry out this procedure. Anyone who is called to vaccinate today, take this opportunity and use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U86	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! On 5 October last year, the former Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, without the consent of Parliament, has concluded a memorandum with the WHO to develop a working digitally supported concept of an international vaccination certificate, the yellow card, in order to increase and strengthen the effectiveness of COVAX and other vaccination and monitoring processes to allow for global expansion and also to contribute to the cross-border exchange of digital health data. Our sensitive personal data will travel to a wide world. Section 1 of Part 13 of this Memorandum ("Application') states: "Participants shall appoint contact persons to support, monitor, review and manage the implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding. " I ask if you are in the letter as a contact person, and if you are not, can you tell us who are the people who are really implementing this memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U88	Thank you for your question. The Health Insurance Fund is not included in this section of the job. Not specifically me, and I know that there is also someone working for the Health Insurance Fund [not involved]. And really, unfortunately, that's all I know how to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U89	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U90	Thank you, good manager. Since I did not receive an answer before, I will ask the same question from the Health Insurance Fund, which has also been involved in the preparation of the vaccination programme, and the question is very simple. It is simply not possible to lead the country out of the crisis when the crisis leaders lie in self-insulation or in the corona departments. Most frontline workers have been vaccinated, but crisis managers have still not been vaccinated. Hence the question: why does the Health Insurance Fund and the Health Board not propose that all ministers and crisis managers be vaccinated, who, at the same time, would set an example against vaccination? [Non-vaccinating them] is as absurd as supplying the army with armor, but the generals are left under a bomb blast. Who, then, thinks the Health Insurance Fund will lead these frontier workers when the system leaders fall into the corona coma and the system collapses? What's this false shame about not being able to vaccinate drivers and talking about an elite? I'm not talking about Riigikogu vaccination here. We, as you can see, can have non-contact sessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U91	Thank you for your question. What we're looking at today is what I said in my report. The vaccination plan is the basis and the vaccination plan clearly defines which groups need vaccination. The list of frontier workers is much longer than the vaccinations have been carried out today. I touched bigger groups myself, but this list is longer. I know there were such priorities here, too. When discussing this some time ago in the government office, the organisers of vaccination were given a very clear guide to focus more on groups at risk of family doctors, and we are talking about people of certain ages and with concomitant illnesses here. The list of frontier workers is known to be further prioritised, which in fact includes members of the government, risk managers, ministries in this area and the State Chancellery. What is the basis for selecting who needs vaccination? One important condition here is that whether a person actually works in a health care facility today and regularly attends a health care facility, or whether he or she can organise his or her work in the field of distance farming. In this respect, I think that the list of frontier workers will be returned immediately, and from there we will also see as our vaccination organisers, who are the next groups of frontier workers to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U92	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Maivi Parv! In your report, you mentioned that we have 500 health care providers dealing with practical vaccination. At the end of your report, you took such a summary that these same people are actually expecting a more secure plan when the vaccines arrive, and you stated that unstable vaccine deliveries, I understand, are a [problemous] issue for the country. What is the chance for the Estonian state to influence these supplies of vaccines to become more stable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U94	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, the Ministry of Social Affairs is doing everything in its power to secure the supply of vaccines, even with regard to previous promises, and there is really constant communication. However, today's practice says that we will actually only get a few days before [the delivery of the vaccine], which is the day the vaccine reaches us, and what is this amount. And actually, we don't know on that day whether the vaccine will reach us at lunch, at night or late at night. So this is the reality. But really, such a longer vaccination plan, which groups [first-order vaccinations], what expectations are for us, hospitals, and what expectations are for family doctors, at what pace we can move, are essential. But obviously it's difficult to organise in such, at least partial, ignorance. Unfortunately, I think we still have this kind of ignorance this month and maybe even in early April. But we're gonna have to do it. And as Mari-Anne Härma said, we must be flexible, creative. It will help us if we make such a longer-term plan for the delivery of certain vaccines, if the supply of the vaccine and some part of it must remain in such a changing situation. While the supply of vaccines is increasing, the possibilities are increasing, we must be ready to direct them immediately to the next vaccinators. Our vaccinators are really all family doctors and hospitals. We are looking for more private health care providers and precisely for those who would be ready to start vaccination as soon as we can organizer it, to carry out vaccination within two or three days, also to be vaccinated on weekends. This is, let's say, a cooperation project where I can certainly recognise all our health care providers. We're working together here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U95	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This morning, at 7 a.m., a press release from the Health Insurance Fund entitled "The cycle for the distribution of vaccinations to doctors will be shortened," which said that the five-week cycle will be switched to a three-week cycle. And there is also the last sentence in the first paragraph, which is: "The second amount of vaccines suitable for older people should have reached all Estonian family doctors by the beginning of the April. " I'm very critical of all this communication. Like I said before, I don't quite know who this message is for and why. Here again comes the pressure on the family doctors that if people are waiting now. But what if, by the end of April, you failed to fulfill [the promise]? These supplies, as you describe, are not dependent on you. Why do we need to put such pressure on family doctors? And the second question is about the same private health area that you referred to: how many and at what level are these negotiations? I really don't understand why we family doctors need to wear out vaccinations when they can actually deal with regular treatments and when we have the medical system collapsing and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U97	Thanks for the questions. I'm sure it's important, and I'm gonna start with the family doctors. This communication, in order to give all family doctors a new and a second chance at the three-week cycle, concerns Pfizer vaccine. We are going to know with certainty that the supplies of Pfizer vaccine have already gained a certain degree of certainty, and the risk that we will not be able to keep that promise is very small. I will also add what went through earlier presentations and questions to ensure equality. If we go more detailed in one county, even to the level of the rural municipality, the coverage of vaccination today is also very different in the 80+ age group under our supervision. Yes, it depends on the fact that all family doctors have been given the opportunity to vaccinate, but this also depends on the fact that family doctors have very different lists of sizes. And here we have to move in the direction that we are giving all family doctors equal [vaccine] today and they are specifically receiving Pfizer vaccine for a specific amount of their list. But the next step must also be that we give more vaccinations to those with larger lists. This is definitely the next change in the matrices of family doctors. Communication is accepted, always gets better. Here the communication people of the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Board and the Ministry work together, and we acknowledge that more needs to be clarified here, more messages already issued proactively. Today, our concern is that the media has a very, very high interest, a heightened interest in the whole vaccination process, and we are in a bit of trouble with detailed enquiries asking about the vaccination of a particular county, a particular region. These are such labour-intensive explanations requiring additional resources. We recognise that we want to move towards more permanent, more stable reporting, and this is also being dealt with today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U98	Thank you, Maivi Parv, for your presentation and your answer to questions. But the time to answer the questions is up. I apologize to all the registered questioners. We have to move on to the agenda, to the next report. For the next presentation, please speak with Dr Elle-Mall Sadraku, member of the board of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors. The presentation is up to 15 minutes and then there are questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U99	Greetings to everyone for me, too! As a family doctor, being a member of the family doctor's association, for the last five months I have been a member of the active corona group of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, and since the end of October, I have actually been a member of the health headquarters of the Health Board. I hope I can answer all your questions, but I am happy to give you an overview of what the arrangements for vaccination of COVID-19 have been from the perspective of the family doctors. I think we've all seen this picture. [The photo has ambulances waiting in front of the hospital. ] I can't show the same picture of a family doctor's centre because it's possible to plan our work very much in advance. We have a lot of phone consultations. Maybe I should have put here a picture of a family nurse and our entire phone system. Yesterday was Monday, and Mondays are known to be the fastest workdays for family doctors. We got about 1,000 calls. Of these, we were able to respond to about half of them. This means that access to family doctors is limited. Why is it limited? This is limited because all decisions taken by the state, all decisions taken by the Health Board, by the Health Insurance Fund, have a direct impact on the work of the family doctor. The information about the restrictions was that it was recommended not to take children to kindergarten, that people immediately called, asked if they could get a maintenance sheet, because they could not leave the children alone at home. When the North Regional Department of the Health Board stopped dealing with close contacts, i.e. no longer mapped them, gave them no more information about testing, gave them no more information about how long they had to stay at home, or about isolation, all these people began to contact the family doctor for this information. All of this greatly increases the work of family doctors. Maybe communication is crucial. The background is that everyone knows what we are talking about: there are 785 family doctor centres in Estonia (family doctors who are concentrated) 422, 42 of them are health centres. The health centre is a family doctor's centre with a physical therapist, midwife, domestic nurse, in addition to family doctor's care. These are centers of a certain size. The average size of the ridge is 1 724 so that we even know what we're talking about. The size of family doctors varies widely across Estonia. There are very small lists, there are very large lists. Most family doctors work in individual practice in Estonia. It means there's a family doctor and one or two family nurses. 81% of family doctors have been vaccinated. It creates confidence for patients, and it actually creates confidence for the whole team, so you can breathe more easily. There has also been talk about the existence of risk groups, risk groups. Just so everyone understands what these risk groups are: they are divided by age and certain medical conditions are added. The first priority is for all people over the age of 80. The second priority is the age of 70 to 79, plus they must have a certain disease or condition which makes them belong to a very high-risk group. And these risk groups go on. Here are the diseases under which people are classified as either high-risk patients or not. It's a long list. Agreed, any list of trouble is that an important disease can be left out. Consequently, I would also say that these lists are a guideline for the family doctor, they are not an obligation. Maybe if he has a 70-year-old patient who has a disease that doesn't appear on this list, he can vaccinate that person. Diseases with a lower priority are also mentioned here: diabetes, asthma, obesity, overweight. I am simply saying that it would be clear how many people in Estonia belong to which priority group: the first priority, or 80+ people, we have around 80,000 and all patients at risk are about 370000. They're quite a bunch. By county, the first and second risk groups (70+ people) are around 145000 in total. The counties are different in size, the risk groups are also different in size. I work at Camp Family Medicine. We have four lists. I brought a schematic here. If I look by priority, I've got about 600 patients on my first and second priorities. But if I look by age, that number is almost 750. These are the patients who should be given Pfizer or Moderna vaccine at our center. Real life: the vaccine is very low. That's the most important thing. We're in deficit conditions. No matter how many healthcare providers we have who would like to provide vaccination services, if we simply do not have a vaccine, there is nothing to vaccinate. So how does it work? On Friday, the Health Insurance Fund sends an offer to the family doctor how much he can order for the next week. Maybe family doctors have two weeks in advance, no longer. So far, there have been 30 to 36 doses per list and every three to five weeks. It's not a lot, it's an extremely small amount. The family doctor has to make his order on Monday, you can confirm on Wednesday if you can, because here's also the crap that this ordering environment, as Maivi Parv said, will change again. That's the third time it's changed. It's so insecure for family doctors. You will receive confirmation (i will show you what it looks like on the slide), the vaccine will reach Estonia on Sunday or Monday, the delivery to the family doctor's centre on Tuesday or Wednesday, you can start on Wednesday or Thursday. But in real life, you're really gonna call in the patients when you have the vaccine. Here's the reason. The confirmation of your order states: depending on the availability of the vaccine, the delivery quantity may be lower than the quantity ordered. So how do I know if I get 30 doses or I get 38 doses, maybe I ordered 100, I get 50, right? I can't trust such assurance that I would dare plan on how many people I call. That's the reason. Family doctors have also gone down the road that they have trusted these assurances and the patients have called in, but if there is a smaller amount, it is understandable that the family doctor, a family nurse who has worked hard to summon, is frustrated by all those patients who receive a call that sorry, the vaccine is not. Perhaps we should consider that at the moment, this system is one that favours a small moment in time at every stage. In December, we prepared an ideal scheme for our family doctor center, how it works, where we get lists, where we identify priorities, patients call, check-in, check-in, everything works like clockwork. But there's a small gap here at the beginning: I don't know how much vaccine I'll get in real life. We may have made an order for 156 people once here. And we got 180 doses, so we had a positive surprise. We found people for the rest of those doses, but it can't be that I can get more or less. This element of surprise has to go away. And now what? What's waiting for us? We've seized all the vaccination options. We have vaccinated health professionals, special care residents and workers, vital services providers, teachers, kindergarten teachers. The first priority, or 80+ people, is that we have 248, we have already been able to give them some vaccinations. When news came that AstraZeneca could be ordered, the letter sent to the family doctors was such that at least 100 doses could be ordered, i.e. no upper limit was given. It creates the same situation that I plan to do 300, and then I get a confirmation that I'm gonna get, or there's gonna be 100 doses. It can't work like this. Tomorrow we should have another 30 doses per list, 120 doses in total, i.e. by the end of March, we will have our 70+ patients who have 749, vaccinated 348. These numbers are small. We would be able to vaccinate every day within a reasonable amount of working time, so that it does not interfere with daily work, and organize mass vaccination on certain weekends. There is a need for better communication on the need for vaccination for the population, as well as on the organisation of a family doctor not to be a personal helpline. As I said before, every national decision directly affects the work of family doctors. All questions will be answered by a family doctor. It turned out to receive information via eesti.ee in order to book an appointment through the digital registration office. Guess how many family medical centers got a call: How do I do that, I can't redirect? They call the family doctor's centre because this information has not been made public in general. It is essential that family doctors also receive new information from a timely and reliable source. So that I wouldn't just talk about how the family doctors could do mass vaccination, I did a quick interview on Friday in two hours. 179 out of 440 centres answered the question of how many would be willing to organize a mass vaccination for 70+ people at risk. I got the answer, so 80.7% would be willing to do it. I'll also give you an example of what we were thinking about in Camp, how this mass vaccination could work. It can't be in our family doctor center, we can't guarantee that much dispersal. We could vaccinate 450 people per hour. 36 people are needed, some with medical education, vaccination rights, some with assistance. But the assumption is that the vaccine is sufficient, the vaccine is present in time, the vaccine is registered, there is a backup list to replace. There was a story about who these people are offering this vaccine to. Family doctors have agreed that we prefer patients at risk. If no one is found among them within a reasonable period of time, the vaccine dose may be injected into another person who is not at risk of wasting the dose. We also asked how many family doctors would be ready to vaccinate patients who are not at risk from May onwards. Here, too, over 60% of respondents agreed to do such mass vaccinations. Perhaps my message is that family doctors are very willing to participate in mass vaccinations. But the main problem is we don't have a vaccine. So what do we do? Firstly, to increase the supply of vaccines, to make agreements with different countries, to see if anything can be bought from somewhere. Then there is a mysterious question that we do not understand. How does this Pfizer car drive from that factory to Estonia for 72 hours? Perhaps it would be possible to send a transport car from Estonia there instead. There could be three or four cars to spread the risk (a car can drive into a ditch), which would drive directly to three or four regions in Estonia. The deliveries could still take place on Monday, Tuesday, as soon as we have this car. Now, the situation is that Pfizer's vaccine is transporting three of the Health Department's cars. Three. But if we gave more cars to disperse these vaccines, we could be faster, we would actually save expensive vaccination time. The distribution of Pfizer and Moderna must still be linked to the number of patients at risk of 70+. Or abolishing the age limit of the AstraZeneca vaccine, extending the difference between two doses, would also give us the opportunity to get more people vaccinated immediately. The biggest concern of family doctors is: the ordering environment and the fixings must be made reliable, the surprises must be stopped with the quantities so that you can get what you ordered. It is necessary to regularly update the data on vaccination of persons at risk and to align them with those of persons who have received a positive corona test. The last table the family doctors received is as of 11 January. There is no information on which patient has received the vaccine. Vaccinate, as previously said, hospital network development plan hospitals and other institutions. The use of mass vaccinations by family doctors who wish to do so should be allowed. In addition, there is a need to speed up the interface with the national digital registration office and it is necessary that it is also available in the family doctor centres. About communication: Russian communication limps very strongly, it needs to be fixed. They [Russian people] must also receive this information. Although the official language of Estonia is Estonian, people need simple and understandable information in Russian. The problem is, there's no vaccine. That's where I'd stop. I want to thank all the people involved in resolving the corona crisis, and all the patients and people who, by their own behaviour, set an example for all of us, wear masks, are in isolation. And the basic message I'm going to say is, look at every human being as corona positive, because that way we can keep it that these numbers don't get any bigger. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U100	Thanks for the presentation. You really have questions. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U101	Thank you, Dr. Sadrak, for your thorough presentation and your family doctor's perspective. Indeed, thank you for your work over the last year and for the information that has been shared with the patients. I am asking about vaccination of risk groups from a regional perspective. The country has defined risk groups on the basis of age, plus front-line workers. But if a person is 85 years old, how can you avoid a situation where for him it's like a lotto that depends on how well his family doctor is, whether the family doctor can correctly place his order with the Health Board in time and whether he's lucky and gets the ordered amount of vaccines? How better to ensure that those people who need the vaccine most to protect their lives and health receive it, whether they live in Tallinn, Tartu, Kilingi-Nõmme or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U102	Thank you for your question. The answer is, in my opinion, very simple. We could give the most of the 80+ patients in the risk group the vaccine more often, not every three weeks, but every week, for example. Yes, we cannot, given that there will be a small amount of science fiction in Estonia, but if we give the vaccine more often, it will reach all its 80+ patients.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U103	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U104	It's a purely procedural question. I would first like to thank the waitress very deeply. This was the first very good and intelligent presentation. My question is, why is it that Dr. Sadrak has been put to last, he can be asked little, I can't ask either? Instead, there were people above whose report could have been much later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U105	Thank you. It was a procedural question that was not registered as a procedural question, but I will answer that question. This is the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs, and according to the Bureau's practice, the proposals of the Committee on Social Affairs or of the Committee which brings the matter to the big hall have always followed. It's been an internship so far. This has, as a rule, been discussed within the Commission between all the parties involved in the Commission. But, as I asked myself at the beginning as a member of the Riigikogu, we must seriously think about the arrangements for dealing with a very important national issue in the future, so that the members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask questions to the rapporteur to whom they wish to ask them, and that all members of the Riigikogu can do so. The limited time provided for answers does not allow this in practice. So this is really our place of reflection in the future. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U106	Thank you. Mr Ernits's question and your answer took two minutes of that time, and my question, and probably the answer to my question, will take at least another minute. Can we get that back, Mr President? I'd really like to ask that practical waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U107	Yes, the manager takes the right to add this time for answers, so we can have another three minutes. But let's get on with the registered questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Elle-Mall Sadrak, an excellent presentation, indeed, and a whole series of good proposals! I ask the hypothetical question: if you were the logistics manager for vaccines, what would be the key proposals for these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U109	Thank you for your question. Order environment order! Today there are mistakes on both sides. One is the surprise that hits the spot, but the other one's on the side of the family doctors, I'm not hiding it at all. Family doctor is a simple person, the average age of a family doctor is 55, most or a large number of them are older people. I said, the ordering environment has changed twice, the ordering environment is not human-friendly, it is not family-friendly at all. It must be one where mistakes are excluded. It is sad to receive letters from family doctors every day that they have received a rejection or cancellation notification from the Health Board simply because they missed the right time to order or ordered the wrong week. It has to be so clear: if I have an offer, it's green for me, I can order from there, I have a reminder that you have a few hours left to make the order, do it. It must be so simple for all family doctors. Ordering environment times and then a great deal of this concern has already been resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U110	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U111	Hello! I thank the rapporteur very much for this very practical overview of how family doctors can actually act in this crisis situation. My question is about one of your main proposals concerning communication and communication on vaccination. Could you elaborate and expand it? What is the message that we would expect more and more specifically from the country concerning vaccination? Where are the bottlenecks where there is this misunderstanding that prevents you from resolving this crisis and you from doing your job? One side is certainly, as you mentioned, so that the Russian-speaking people can get better information, but what is the content of this message and what would you expect from the government and the state in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U112	Thank you. We would expect first of all that people still need to be well informed what the disease is, what are the symptoms with which they go, why some go to the hospital and others don't get into the hospital, why they should be vaccinated, what is the comparison of vaccines? There was also a question of whether one was better than the other. In terms of preventing a serious disease, they are all equally effective. They have little details, nuances. You could tell people that in more detail. You might want to tell me how the vaccination is being carried out. These are things that all seem to have gone through the media, but people would really like to understand. Hitting family doctors has been in the media that some young acquaintances have received a vaccine, but his 78-year-old mother has not. But there is little communication that a family doctor receives 36 doses every three weeks, even though he has over 200 people on that list. Such small things should be much better communicated. It should also communicate what these side effects are, what it means when a person has finally been vaccinated, what restrictions it brings to him, or, on the contrary, what restrictions it takes away. Similarly, when a country makes new restrictions to prevent a disease, they also need to speak up more widely about what they bring. The person hears the shops are closed now. Does that mean I'm running now? All these little things have to be explained in a simple and understandable way. This is also important: I said that family doctors need a reliable source of information, but the same reliable source is needed by all Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U113	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U114	Thank you. Thank you very much, rapporteur, for this presentation and thank you as well as other family doctors, your colleagues, for the extraordinary work you have done and will have to do in the coming months. I'm trying to fit a number of questions into that 45 seconds. One. I will continue with Riina Sikkut's question of regional inequality. For example, I would like to see that in the Kastre municipality, 40% of the 80+ people have been vaccinated, but in Mulgi municipality, just over 10%. How do you explain that? Let me get this straight. All family doctors received 36 doses, regardless of whether the proportion of 80+ people on the list is 5% or 15%. That's the first question. The second question concerns the Russian-speaking population. I'm looking at 7% in Narva, 6% in Sillamäe for 80+ vaccinees. It's still catastrophically low. What is the reason, whether it is just the unwillingness of patients, or whether it is also a question of family doctors? Question three. Could you give an overview of the side effects on your real practice? There's a lot of folklore about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U115	Thank you. On regional inequality: yes, it is that everyone gets equal. 36 doses were the first time, it was completed in a five-week cycle. Now this three-week cycle is 30 doses. That was why we were able to increase these supplies. 30 doses are currently equally [for all]. Narva's 6 to 7% is clearly not only due to patients, but also to family doctors. In Narva, in the meantime, there was a situation where a large family doctor center was out of order and they couldn't have been vaccinated this week because it was exactly their week when they were out of line. Their next train is coming now, so maybe they can vaccinate now. Among the 32 family doctors who have not started vaccination in Estonia are some family doctors whose first chance to order was taken while they were sick. This system is somewhat rigid, probably because of the same three cars. Family doctors cannot order at any time other than their own transport week. Now they're waiting until that car and the ring gets to them again. The side effects are that there have been no serious adverse reactions in our centre that require reporting of adverse reactions to the Agency. However, there have been people who have had pain at the injection site, who have thrown up fever, who have had tiredness, weakness, weakness. However, these more common side effects have been reported as described. We clearly saw that in the case of AstraZeneca this is the case: the older the person, the fewer the side effects the younger, the more there are. But you can't say the side effects are so bad now. Most people still have maximum redness, pain, and nothing else at the injection site. In the case of Pfizer vaccine, we saw that again, the younger the person, the more side effects. Our 70+ and 80+ patients have minimal adverse reactions. In that sense, the vaccine is pretty good. But we also carried out vaccinations at a special care home where the workers were older and the residents were younger. There was no difference at the time that they had to have AstraZeneca under 70, in the nursing home they all had Pfizer or Moderna. There we saw, indeed, in the special care home where we vaccinated and where the inhabitants were 25-50 years old, so that the younger the vaccine, the more the vaccine still gave them these side effects. That's the way it is with these vaccines. But this is just an example of my center, different centers have different examples. Rather, I would say that these side effects are not comparable to those of a person getting a corona virus and getting hospitalized. In any case, vaccination is worthwhile, the side effects pass in a few days and life goes on much safer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U116	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U117	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, I would very much like to thank you for a clear and understandable presentation and also thank you to the family doctors who are actually prepared to contribute. I think they're a little underused. I've already had a lot of answers, but I'd like to ask myself a question, just in case. How do you feel about equal treatment of regions and lists of family doctors? What's your idea of things?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U118	Thank you for your question. I would say here that, of course, there is a slightly more unequal situation in the islands in terms of their logistical location. They have been given more vaccine than other Estonian family doctors. But in other respects, the current situation is that there is no inequality, everyone gets the same little.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U119	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U120	Thank you, good waitress. Good President! It was really a super presentation, in the sense that it was very informative and you reflected the real situation with vaccination and the situation of family doctors very, very nicely. But, unfortunately, before you, we have just heard the report by the Minister and the Government, where the public was informed that everything is very well, that there are, yes, some minor shortcomings, but a little fine-tuning and everything is going great. In fact, we have heard that the public, patients, and family doctors have not received adequate communication from the government, and the surprises in the responsible work of family doctors are everyday. Have you had the opportunity to present your concerns with the same relief, concretely and entirely appropriate emotionally to government representatives, and have they been heard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U121	Thank you. Actually, it's all about fine-tuning, I'll be honest. All these little things aren't the kind of things that need some kind of megasensure solutions, a huge amount of money to solve them. That's the fine-tuning. I'm in the health department of the Health Department, and I'm the voice of the family doctors there. We have made these proposals. Every week we have meetings with the people of the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs, where we still express our position, our vision. I would say that they are very well aware that this fine-tuning has to be done. I understand that they are moving in this direction to find these solutions and to do so. But it's going a little slow in the family doctors' view, I'd say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U122	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Dr. Sadrak, thank you for this frank presentation. This will certainly help to better assess the situation. My question concerns persons without health insurance. Do family doctors, while trying to find a customer in a target group that needs to receive vaccination as a matter of urgency, also need to ensure that they have health insurance? The second question comes from this area: how do you feel about whether the legislator should deal more with the motivation package, so that people still allow and want to be vaccinated, would have a certain number of benefits or higher motivation to succeed in vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U124	Thanks for the questions. The first question is very simple. Non-medically insured persons are treated in the same way as insured persons in the corona crisis, that is to say, these people are also included among the 370000 people at risk. Family doctors don't know the difference, they invite these people to receive vaccinations on an equal footing with other persons. So getting a vaccine isn't gonna go behind health insurance. In the same way, it is also true that the primary help of patients who are suspected of corona, that is to say, to refer them to the same test and to treat them, is also free of charge for persons without health insurance. Personally, I am in favour of it, so it should be, it should not be any different with this disease. Motivation. I'd say that I should tell you more about what it already brings with it. If you've been vaccinated in two doses, you won't have to remain isolated in close contact for the next six months. That's actually quite a motivation. Additional motivation, I think, must be taken into consideration one day. In my opinion, this is not a mega-fast, I think it could come to the agenda in April-May.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U125	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U126	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much for your very good and practical presentation to Dr. Sadrak. My question has been in your presentation on proposals that were very good, very practical. Is it also clear to whom they were specifically directed, whether to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board or the Emergency Staff of the Health Board, whose member, I understand, you are yourself? Maybe some of the suggestions were for yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U127	Since so many people are dealing with this subject of vaccination, these proposals are all a little targeted at the various parties. The emergency headquarters are not currently dealing with the organisation of a vaccine order environment for family doctors or how many of these cars drive or do not drive. There are some communication people there, and hopefully communication can be improved. The family doctors' association also deals, I would say, with improving communication between the population and patients and family doctors every day. Unfortunately, we are a non-profit organization. I think this communication should be managed by someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U128	Marko Šorin, please! I don't think Marko Šorin can get back in touch. Looks that way. But then thank you, Honourable waitress, for answering the questions. The time for answering questions is also around, and we can go to the negotiations. However, before we go to the negotiations, the Committee on Social Affairs has proposed that, if necessary, the sitting be extended until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. It is clear that we will not stop working on this item until it is one o'clock, so I will put this proposal to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Affairs Committee to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U129	66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been adopted and we have extended today's sitting. Let's go to the negotiations. First of all, representatives of the political groups. Is Siret Eagle a representative of the central fraction? Yes, please, as representative of Siret Eagle's central faction!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors in this hall and video watchers! All the presentations were very constructive and were united by concerns about the health of Estonian people. It is precisely human health, including mental health, and coping with the difficult situation and the role of the state, that my next words are also addressed. The spread of the Corona virus SARS-CoV-2 in Estonia is critically high and the health care system is overloaded. It is hoped that the rate of vaccination has increased for seven weeks in a row and that it will continue to rise. In March, the supply of vaccine to Estonia will increase as well as the quantities of vaccine sent by the general medical centres. New service providers, including private medical institutions, are also joining the vaccination arrangements in order to offer the possibility of vaccination to both risk groups and frontier workers. COVID-19 has unfortunately damaged the economy very badly. The current government has supported businesses, cultural institutions and sports clubs, but the Central Party Group believes that state aid measures should be more extensive. In addition to remuneration, entrepreneurs also have to pay utilities, loans and leases. The Centre Party Group is of the opinion that the current measures do not provide people with adequate protection and security and do not prevent potential bankruptcies of active companies. The government should draw up a broad-based supplementary budget to prevent a socio-economic collapse. I congratulate the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimit, who, with some delay, came up with an additional budget and a borrowing initiative yesterday. It is now necessary to take decisive action and, if possible, to declare an emergency situation. This will ensure a clear and swift adoption of decisions. You don't have to invent a legata. The special situation established by the Government of Jüri Ratas was effective and should be implemented again. The additional budget to be drawn up should provide broad support to the entire business sector. It should be recalled that the wage compensation measure introduced last year helped 17000 companies and 137000 workers with more than EUR 250 million. A total of EUR 130 million was allocated to local authorities. Basic decisions were also made to support those who lost their jobs by increasing unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit. The government also approved a new employment programme for the years 2021 to 2023, which mitigates the negative labour market effects associated with the spread of COVID-19 and allows the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund to continue offering labour market services and support more flexibly. The reimbursement of sick days from the second day of sickness must also be ensured until at least the end of the year. Health is fundamentally research-based and evidence-based, and the Centre Party attaches importance to the sustainable financing of the health system. During the crisis in spring and autumn COVID-19, more than EUR 100 million were allocated to the sickness fund to compensate for extraordinary expenses, including health care workers. A further tens of millions of euros were added for testing people and acquiring the necessary personal protective equipment. During the negotiations on the state budget, it was decided to allocate EUR 143 million to the sickness fund for this year and... Can I have an extra minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U131	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U132	... up to 2024, a total of EUR 540 million to cover the deficit caused by the fall in social tax receipts. The state budget must be dealt with responsibly, but in the current situation, human lives and the livelihood of the Estonian population must be prioritised. Finally, I would like to put it to every person's heart that day-to-day activities must be guided by the principles of responsible person's behaviour, must avoid contact and, if possible, stay at home and move in the fresh air, taking into account the 2 + 2 rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U133	Priit Sibul on behalf of the party of the Fatherland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U134	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U135	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U136	The last speaker, Dr. Sadrak, has only a word of praise, just like all of his colleagues in the medical field today. Unfortunately, my presentation is not as positive as it was for Dr. Sadrakul, because I believe that the situation that we have does not allow many positive words to be shared. Corona chaos is what best characterises the current situation in our society. The Postman was asked to give me an opinion last week on the restrictions imposed by the government. I sent the story last week on Wednesday night, and it showed up today. It works like a saddle on a pig after last night's government decisions. Unfortunately, the same can be said about the actions of the government and the mistress. The restrictions imposed will not yet be enforced if new ones are introduced. Why something is done remains unclear and incomprehensible. Decisions are not sufficiently explained. Decisions must be correct and made in a timely manner. The Minister responsible for the sector cannot say that he is pleased now because he has supported the toughest restrictions that were adopted yesterday in the government. It's not the Minister's words that matter, it's his actions and the decisions of the government. It is clear to all of us that these decisions came too late. I, here as an opposition ambassador, may think and criticise, because I do not have enough information, but we know that the scientific council has recommended the lockdown of the state yesterday. Of course, I understand that this is a difficult decision for a politician who wishes to appear as a liberal. However, the Prime Minister and the Government must decide and, if this is not recommended, they cannot hold their own office. Now a few words of chaos in the field of vaccination. I have a clear understanding today that the incompetence of the organisers will help to conceal the lack of vaccines and the confusion of the message. If the first one cannot be blamed here, then the confusion of the message seems to be the weapon of the organisers to conceal their incompetence. First, there was a problem with solving the logistical task. Ancient vaccines were mishandled, and they perished in the early days. The decision was to keep the vaccines in storage for a second injection. It seems that, in the case of better security of supply for vaccines, we are also starting to overcome this problem. At least that was the impression of today's debate when Mrs Parv, the representative of the Health Insurance Fund, spoke. There was also confusion in defining the priority areas: which areas are the priority areas. Then there was an immediate problem with the listing of people who should receive vaccines as a matter of priority. And so on. The system is still not suitable for the e-country when booking vaccinations. This is still about calling the employees of the family doctor centers and agreeing on time, and so on. This is a ridiculous use of resources in the use of people with medical education at this moment! During the weekend, the pilot project was implemented by electronic invitation for some lists. 32 family doctors have still not started vaccination and the reasons for this are much wider than the lack of ability of family doctors. As we have heard from the report, the inflexibility of the ordering system is an important part of the problem. That sounds completely absurd. Hello, Health Insurance! Where is the contact with reality? Right now, the public thinks that the problem is related to family doctors, but we all know that this is not the case. The performance of family doctors is considerably higher, but their ability to order and receive vaccines is still problematic, and this is a problem for organisers, not family doctors, as Elle-Mall Sadrak said in the report. I do not understand, however, why the vaccination of family doctors is being exhausted in the first place. Given our medical situation in the country, it would be reasonable for family doctors to be able to deal with regular treatments and thus help the critical border area. Vaccination could be carried out freely in cooperation with private medical institutions, as they have a positive experience in conducting corona tests. Believe me, I don't want to be critical because there are no winners in this political struggle when people lose lives. But paying attention to bottlenecks is necessary. I thank all those who contribute and give their best, from doctors and nurses to carers and volunteers. Thank you very much. I recommend to the government the courage of decision-making, and please let us explain our decisions, because only when the decisions are unambiguous will society be able to comply with them and thus break the backbone of the virus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U137	Thank you. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U138	I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U139	Five plus three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U140	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I shall first make a comment to my colleagues from the Centre Party. Well, we all know how to support our ministers in a long place. Parliamentary scrutiny cannot, of course, be called this, and perplexing the debate of the opposition in this way is a sign of an extremely poor political culture. But what do we expect from the Porto-rollo government parties? The government of Kaja Kallas has failed in the corona struggle, and the whole nation is paying a very heavy price for it. Unfortunately, the most difficult time is yet to come. Hospitals are on the verge of power today, but hospitals are only reached by those people who were infected when our daily rates were less than 1,000, almost half the number of the last few days. Since we know from experience that the coronal patients arrive at the hospital two or three weeks after the infection, the current hospital numbers reflect the pre-anniversary and temporal illness of the Republic. The explosion at the beginning of March will reach the hospitals in a week or two. Is that what they're ready for? Ready, actually? So far, the new government has not shown that it has three essential qualities to cope with the crisis: firstly, the simplest sense of responsibility; secondly, proactivity; thirdly, foresight. On the contrary, the government unscrupulously started taking political poses to gain cheap popularity. As with so many other issues, from money laundering, continuing with road construction and ending with migrant labour, we position ourselves on the principle that we do the opposite of the previous government. For such a childish, petty, stupid pose, the Estonian people are now paying with their lives and paying all health care workers with their abnormal overload. The government did not understand that it was his responsibility to keep the situation under control, but to play political games. And the result is here. Secondly, the government, but especially the Ministry of Social Affairs and, above all, the Minister of Health, Tanel Kiik, has not shown in the last year that they can foresee and make the necessary plans if the situation deteriorates. We're under threat from the Italian scenario. This is a situation where hospitals are no longer able to provide assistance to all the sick and people who could be saved in the treatment die without it. Last year, during the previous government, Estonia was a success story of the Corona. Low infection rates even in the second wave of autumn, very low deaths, very flat recession. It didn't all happen by accident or by itself. This was the result of difficult and thoughtful decisions in difficult circumstances. If we're caught running into the medical system, we're a country that's played out all the success. We're gonna be hit by a cascad of death. The withdrawal of the pandemic from control will result in a sharp deterioration of the economic situation. Nice talk and supportive questions from partymates aren't helping here. You can't talk it out, smooth it out, blame it on the others. I call on the Government to decisively improve its activity in managing the situation, launching cross-sectoral cooperation and giving clear messages to people. It is essential to speed up vaccination, as experience in other countries shows that vaccinated people do not get sick or pass on the infection. Most of all, however, it is necessary for both the Riigikogu and the public to regain the confidence that Estonia has a government that can handle the governance of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U141	Thank you. On behalf of the High Everaus Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U142	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you, from the heart, to all the performers, and also for the very specific answers! And thank you to the questioners! Where are we today, where are we today? The key question is obviously how long we will allow the epidemic to guide us. Vaccination is today's central topic of discussion. In an emotional way, the French ask: "La vaccinacion justiracles ou mirages? " Vaccinate a miracle or delusion? Undoubtedly, on the basis of today's knowledge, vaccination has an important role to play in resolving this whole pandemic situation. The two aspects that are known today: prevention of severe symptoms of disease and prevention of death. On the other hand, we would like vaccination to help make a significant difference when the virus is stopped. Confidence has been enhanced by recent data from Israel and Great Britain, where more people have been vaccinated, where the number of elderly and other people in need of hospital care has fallen significantly. But we do not know anything once and for all until long-term monitoring shows what the real situation is. In order to respond more quickly, we should deliberately infect those who have received the vaccine, but that is undoubtedly unethical. Also, the anti-infection effect has not been proven today, unfortunately, because this virus passes through our body's airways through the nose and needs an opponent immediately in the nasal mucosal cells. Right now, we're injecting the vaccine into a muscle, and it's going to take a long journey through different immune mediators to actually get antibodies into the blood. Today, it is known to prevent the disease from spreading in the body. So, we still need time to find out if it's going to be the same vaccine as the smallpox vaccine and the other effective vaccines. However, it is good to note that over 300 million doses have already been administered in 125 countries, and we are trying to solve our country's problems optimally, even with today's event. The most important thing really is to achieve a high level of vaccination. But as you can see, that doesn't mean everything else is irrelevant. We still have to wear a mask, we have to wash our hands, we have to protect ourselves from tight contacts. All of this has been shown by other countries. We are in a much worse situation than there is in all of Europe, when there is Asian land, when there is Australia, where this year the infection is almost nonexistent and where vaccination begins in completely different conditions and where the success is much greater. I'm sure there's a problem with new variants of the virus. We know that current vaccines can help against the British variant, but we do not know whether South Africa and Brazil are against the mutant. And the more the virus spreads, the more likely it is that we will get our own version of Estonia, and we do not know what the activity of this virus could be. Anyway, I'm an optimist with all the scientists and medical staff. We hope that vaccination will really change the course of the pandemic and we will overcome the situation where we are today, where we are led by an epidemic. I'm sure at some point we'll get control of ourselves again, and we'll be able to control the whole situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U143	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski, please! Gives an interview? Then we will proceed with the negotiations and Mr Ossinovski will have the floor next. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U144	Thank you, President of the sitting. I'd take a little more time, then three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U145	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U146	Good ambassadors! Good guests! I begin by saying that a year has passed since the forecast of the first distant outbreak of Wuhan reached our daily lives in the face of great fears in an incredibly short time. In ten days, when several new hospitals were built in China, and people who died of severe illness in refrigerated cars, such as logs, we had to act miraculously. The only right decision was to declare an emergency situation, and the whole country was shut down, locked down, so even the funeral was postponed. There were no masks, the prices of respirators amounted to several dozens of euros. Vaccines were only authorised by the end of this year. But we won this evil, and then the unknown virus, because we were all working together, even in this hall. The opposition at the time realized that there was no politics on the surface of an evil illness. In autumn, the government of the Centre Party, EKRE, and the Fatherland thought that the country would no longer be shut down, the vaccines were almost tangible, and the situation was not bad at all. Indeed, when we created a new government, we lost precious time. The Centre Party had already had almost a year's experience and it was very clear that more closures and restrictions should be used than has been done so far, but no real consensus was reached in this regard. I also understand the coalition mates very well. In opposition, it was said that the government is imposing too harsh restrictions and harassing freedoms. There was no certainty that the virus would spread at the feeding grounds, and instead of financial compensation, it was said that there was a poor financial situation. It was like talking about big restrictions, but in fact, a little bit was played with the opening hours. I don't understand EKRE at all right now. I like many of their political principles, but there has been so much speculation, manipulation and double standards on the COVID issue. You're saying the situation has been dropped, but it's because of some of your ambassadors that we can't sit safely in this hall. Some of you just didn't wear a mask and still don't wear one, which means you don't care about your health or the health of others. It is around you that the anti-vaccine, anti-masked, COVID skeptics are the most concentrated. We saw that there were still a lot of maskless people on the torch train. And luck with our fine Minister Tanel Kiige is already really pathetic. This conflict, of course, is a long time ago. This started when you did not get your message, which scared the Estonian people: since April last year all the land pharmacies have disappeared. But everything went very well, nothing was shut down. A couple more pharmacies came in. And there were other points, weren't there? We really advise that there is no point in dealing with spin on this issue. After all, the swing was recognised as the best minister and the everyday COVID, vaccination and so on have in fact already been designed by the previous government. I am pleased that the government has agreed that more stringent restrictions will have to be imposed for a while. All in all, it will be cheaper than long-term suffering, where the situation is completely out of control. Just a few more moments for the future. Professor of Biomedicine Mart Faithful has developed a corona vaccine, but it is behind the production company. The proposed plant is currently waiting for a government response on funding. For example, there is a pharmaceutical plant in Lithuania. We need to get on with this. Secondly, I have an article by medical doctor Jaak Uibu: "Where did sanitary doctors and Estonian sanitation go?'. In 1991, we had 75 epidemiologists and 161 hygiene products. A few years later, they became health doctors, and during the time of Minister Toomas Vilosius, the number of these doctors was reduced by more than half. The Minister of Social Affairs Eiki Nestor, however, graduated from training health doctors at the university at all. Dr. Uibu has called it abuse of office and absolute incompetence. So a service responsible for the prevention and health protection of infectious diseases could be of great help to us today, alongside good doctors. This so-called'sane' system was still very good in its time, and I think that the training of these specialists should definitely be started right now. Also, with the new Estonia, the so-called civil defence system, which had been launched in its time to deal with epidemics, disasters and various accidents, disappeared. Older people very well remember these civil defense exercises. In crisis situations, both ordinary people and high - ranking individuals were prepared, knowing who was going where, what he was doing. The plan was in place, everything worked according to the chain of command. Such a civil protection system, i.e. the protection of the population, should, I think, be restored as well. But the immediate challenge: in a crisis, we must all act together, for one goal. It's not right here to manipulate the people through the media. So I am in favour of strict restrictions and fines. Speaking of restrictions harassing people's freedoms, I think the ultimate freedom is when we've taken over COVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U147	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Can I have three more minutes, please? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Vaccination is undoubtedly an extremely responsible and important process for this epidemic. It's the only long-term solution we can get under cover. So this vaccinator.ee slogan sounds very smart and skilled in the wording of my estimate. However, it is clear, and it has been clear in the longer term, that vaccination at this rate and according to its schedule, as it is in the rest of Europe, will not really prevent further spread of the epidemic in the coming months. We talked about this in December, but both among people and among politicians there was a feeling that vaccines were coming now, so we can forget about social distancing, all these precautions, there is no need for so many restrictions. Vaccines help. Of course vaccines help, the vaccines are effective. But before they start to have a wider effect on the population, it's going to take months at this rate. And, unfortunately, as a society and as decision-makers, we let the rope slide in an unacceptable way, which is why today we are in a health crisis that has not been similar in the Republic of Estonia. Ambulance cars are in line behind the ER doors, and human mortality rates are rising at a frightening rate. Of course, in this context it is simple, popular, but in my opinion it is wrong to criticise indiscriminately the vaccinees and the vaccination process as a whole throughout this process. Of course, there have been shortcomings. Of course, you can ask in a specific case whether you could have given these 2,000 or 3,000 injections a day earlier. But we need to understand that in the big picture, this would have had little impact on the spread of the epidemic. The main problem, as came out of today's reports, is the lack of vaccines in the Republic of Estonia and, more generally, in the whole of the European Union. That's a fact. And as a result, I don't want to get a cheap point of popularity here, saying put all the vaccines that are in the car right now and spread them out and inject them even at night. This can be done, but you would think that basically nothing would change. At the same time, the arrangement has already revealed major bottlenecks and will soon become apparent. They must either be resolved immediately by the State or adequately foreseen for their solution. I will bring out three questions. The first of these is regional inequality, which has already emerged. I've taken out the coverage of 80+-year-olds by county government. Scissors are very, very big. We see that in some municipalities it is covered by 10%, while in other municipalities it is already 40%. Of course, as we have heard today, there are different reasons for this: whether the family doctor was sick when the ordering system was opened, or whether some deliveries were cancelled just this week when he was due to come, or whether he simply did not get the order on time or did not know how to do it. These reasons may vary and, of course, they are different. But the fact is that the state, for example, has left the Nanas in Mulgi municipality less protected than the Nanas in Northern Viljandi County. And is that fair? Can the right of a person to receive a vaccine depend on whether his family doctor was quick enough to order a vaccine? We also heard from the family doctor that the vaccine was actually divided into one tree: 36 doses for all family doctors, regardless of whether 80+ people are on the list of 5% or 15%. We know that we have very different regional population compositions in small municipalities, the age structure is quite different than in cities. This issue needs to be resolved regionally so that people across Estonia feel that the state prioritises them equally and receive the necessary protection in the same way as the inhabitants of the neighbouring municipality. The second question concerns ethnic inequality. I guess it's a little bit reflected, but it's been mostly the type that the Russians don't speak Estonian and watch television in the big country and wait for everyone in Sputnik. Today, the representative of family doctors here said that it is also a question of family doctors, not just patients. We know that indeed the readiness for vaccination is lower among the Russian-speaking population. And that's the problem for all of us. It's not enough just to say it is. We need to deal with this systematically, because we will only achieve sufficient herd immunity if we vaccinate the people as a whole. And if we have certain groups that stand out either regionally or on a nation or on any other ground, for example, on the surface of age, perhaps in the future, then we must deal with them. It requires careful thought-out. Currently, 80+ age group coverage is 7% in Narva, 6% in Sillamäe, 9% in Kohtla-Järve, but 29% in Toila, which is in the same county. This is a serious problem for the Estonian state and society, which must be resolved. The third question concerns a few months' notice. I mean a systemic communication activity that means the time when we reach a wider population of high-risk groups and frontline workers. We can already foresee today that there will be a great deal of hesitation in vaccination, and this will obviously affect the overall coverage of the vaccine. Once again: this is a common issue for all of us, because if we do not achieve sufficient coverage in society, the spread of the virus will not stop. We know that, of course, there are about 10% of people who are convinced of the vaccine and think that it is a conspiracy of large pharmaceutical companies against the Estonian people that it is intended to hurt us. But these people are few. The majority of those who hesitate to receive the corona vaccine are in fact hesitants. They do not have enough information, they have different questions about the side effects and other aspects of vaccination. This is a new vaccine, as we know. And we need answers to these questions, we need open communication, we need to think about how we can get to these different groups. If there is finally a situation where, figuratively speaking, a person receives an e-mail or an SMS or a phone call that please, you may come in to vaccinate, then these questions must already be answered for him, so he will no longer hesitate and say: very good, finally the queue has reached me, I'm going to do it. If we're only going to deal with it then, friends, when May is already here, it's too late. So let's take this seriously, let's try to see it coming! Reach out to all those who work at the front line, both in hospitals under heavy pressure and, of course, family doctors who do vaccination! Let's do the little problems and problems we have, fix it, solve this thing and get enough coverage! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U149	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U150	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleagues and all those who will follow this debate on a crucial national issue through the TV bridge! Why did I even come here today? I am actually very pleased that I was able to come here after Mr Ossinovski, who spoke very clearly about the subject of the elderly, about this concern and about the different coverage of the 80+ age group in vaccination. I really want to thank today's performer, family doctor Elle-Mall Sadraku, who spoke the way things are. He didn't sugarcoat, he was very sincere. And his message that the family doctors are ready to vaccinate, give only the vaccine once again confirms that we have more people who want the vaccine than those who don't. I have a particular concern for the elderly. Let me read to you the article "The Elderly Deserve Better" that appeared on 17 February. It is written by Ants Erm, a senior researcher at Tallinn University of Technology and member of the Constitutional Assembly. And believe that when Ants Erm wrote this, he didn't speak for himself. He spoke on behalf of a very, very large number of elderly people who are insulted and hurt by such an age distinction. And now I'm going to do a quoted paragraph. Consider that today is March 9th, and this article was written 20 days ago, but the truths that are written here have not changed. The beginning of the quote: "We had as many corona deaths in January as we did last year. With the current fragile balance, "thank you" to the corona dies every day about five people. " Today, we know that this figure is no longer five. "In this case, this balance may be disrupted more quickly if the government is able to react." And then: "I recently read the news that Estonia lost a billion euros from foreign tourists due to the corona crisis. This news is not wrong, but if there is still a world war with the corona, economic losses are inevitable. Otherwise, we could lose thousands of lives first and then billions more. The government has been accused of extinction of foreign tourism and taverns. Unfortunately, as long as we can't control the virus, there won't be any outsiders. Which, in turn, means that hotels and restaurants can't get on their feet either. And we, Estonians, are not expected to have the same problem in every country. Perhaps it would be wise to lock the country down for a month or two, save lives and then "restart." That would be better than the current wave that we have since the beginning of November. I don't like being locked up, either. Who likes being locked up, but what if you can't? Yes, from a younger generation's point of view, the corona has mostly left the "sludges." But they are our parents and grandparents, they are a generation, thanks to whom we have the Republic of Estonia today. They deserve a better fate than being just statistical victims of cynical pension reform. A state which respects human rights, including the right to life, should not allow such an attitude. " End of quote and end of article. This article was written by the dignified Ants Erm on 17 February. Today is March 9th, and now there are no more dead than five people a day. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U151	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U152	And somehow this communication, where it's read that 89-year-old, 73-year-old, 61-year-old, and then a little bit below, gives the impression that what's there, old people are dying. But once again, as the quote said: these are our grandmothers and grandpas, our mothers and fathers. The fact that the vaccination of older people varies considerably from region to region is a problem. The fact that in many nursing homes both old people living there and people working there have been vaccinated, as we have heard today, is excellent. But we can't be satisfied and say that everything is fine if we know that really the difference between the figures of one municipality and another is triple between me and Heliri's country. And no matter what the reason, it has to be dealt with. It's not enough to just say that it's all for the first time, that's the problem. Here, age does not matter, in fact, every person in Estonia counts. We really have few people, and every person counts. We hope, however, that we will move forward with joint force and that the older senior groups, as well as the social workers who work for and support these dignified people, will be better placed to be vaccinated. And also: I was pleased to hear the Minister's answers today. We hope that social workers will be vaccinated at least at the end of March or even after a week. The Minister also said that the Riigikogu should also be given priority to vaccinations. I will be honest: as long as there is not a single social worker yet to be vaccinated, I will certainly not take this vaccine, because we can really do remote sessions. But all people who are on the front line, such as shoppers, whose health, if they get sick, may depend on the spread of infection and the lives of very, very many people, deserve it first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U153	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please! Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U154	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to say one very specific sentence: I am not against vaccines. I find that a person who wants to be vaccinated can do so freely. If you look at history, I remember very clearly when a Channel 2 reporter went in front of the cameras and had a flu shot taken. Perfectly normal! But what's happening now is, in my opinion, total pressure to vaccinate people. And when I was watching TV this morning, this "Hello" morning show, I say, I got tired of it. But I want to touch on an aspect that has not been dealt with here and make people think about it. First of all, on 5 October last year, former Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has signed a treaty with the WHO. This agreement is called the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Digital Health and Innovation. This document is, like any other memorandum of intent in the lion's section, general and general. But what worries and makes the alarm bells work is the background, timing, and the information lock that surrounds it at government level. In principle, according to the constitution of the foreign treaty, the Riigikogu should still be ratified. Wickedness runs from the current general reference system, where the activity interpreted as importing Estonian cyber success story and know-how at any other time. We've been hit by a global COVID pandemic for a year now. The measures to be implemented and planned to address this have globally raised questions about the persistence of privacy and personal data, freedom of movement and freedom of expression and other fundamental rights, and the admissibility of discrimination and segregation of people, now on the basis of vaccination. It is strange that EKRE's government partners did not consider it necessary to inform the Centre Party, yet to involve the coalition partner in the process of concluding such a contract of transfer and commitment to a very large number of areas. For all contracts, as many lawyers and also experienced lawmakers in the present Riigikogu know, the devil lies in details: wording, linguistic details and interpretation. In this particular text, it is awkward to observe, in other words, the possibility to apply a classification to the activities arising from the contract by arbitrary means, part 6 of the WHO's liability for potential losses arising from their activities, the possibility of involving anyone in any sector, starting with the public sector and ending with the private sector. The cherry cake is part 2 of the memorandum, which clearly states that the aim is to develop a digitally supported concept of an international vaccination certificate, the yellow card, in order to increase and strengthen the effectiveness of COVAX and other vaccination and monitoring processes to allow for the possibility of expansion worldwide. In essence, the 'yes' word has been given for the development and use of a very controversial and fundamental human right, the instrument which is the basis for restricting freedom of movement. Is this the reputation our country needs? Have we agreed to be a test polygon and turn our people into guinea pigs in this process? First of all, the digital vaccination certificate that I have mentioned brings with it the principle that whoever does not vaccinate, it does not travel. People want to go somewhere, but they're actually being put in front of a coercion, there's a coercive vaccination in this context. Part 6 of the Memorandum also speaks of confidentiality. "It is recognised that any party may hold confidential information held by it or by third parties cooperating with it. Any such information shall only be shared with the Parties under a separate confidentiality agreement expressly concerning that information. " This means that we do not know what information is being shared. Part 9 of the Memorandum concerns liability. "Each Party shall be solely responsible for the manner in which it carries out its share of the joint activities under this Memorandum of Understanding. The Participant shall therefore not be liable for any loss, accident, damage or injury suffered or caused in connection with this Memorandum of Understanding by a member of the staff of the other Party or a sub-contractor of that Party. " In essence, it means that the WHO wipes its hands clean of all possible problems. Let's move on: implementation. Each memorandum, the agreement will be implemented. And point 1 says nicely: "Participants who support, monitor, review and manage the implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding. " My question: Do any of you in this Chamber know who these contacts are? I don't know. I really don't, but if I look at what is happening right now, when the scientific council advises the government, the documents on which decisions are based in terms of recommendations are not available. It's all in oral form. What's interesting is that the contact person for this contract is a person like Marten Kaevats. He's the one who's been relaying this contract. Now there is an interesting moment: he has the authority to approve the additional annexes to this Memorandum of Understanding at the designated address, or Marten Kaevats. I mean, all the extras that may later come with this contract are in the possession of one person. We know there was a forced vaccination at the Valkla nursing home: people were vaccinated by force. And now I'm asking you, is this what this whole process is going to be? Whoever remembers was once the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact. There was a basic agreement and there were secret protocols. Are we on the same road again? We do not know which additions to this WHO agreement will be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U155	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U156	Good vice chairman! Good colleagues, both in this hall and online, are watching, and all the people who are sharing the same information field with us! This is the information I want to talk about. Control of all crises begins with the need to possess information. Strategic communication is about information, and today we are talking mainly about that our information has been incomplete. Our information has been very incomplete! We can say that right now it seems that there is an information war against our own people. At one point, the knowledge came that we have lost the information war, and now, in this light, we point out that we are giving the police additional rights. Yeah, we all know the police are in public order. But this message, the way it's sent... We're the world's cyber defence center, we're a crazy e-state, our tiger jumps. We came out of the situation last spring, and then we took four new PR people to work at the Health Board to get out even more successfully. 28 April Eesti Päevaleht wrote that these people were paid higher than Popov. Where are these people? You understand: we came out of one crisis, we took extra troops there, but today we are even more, on our stomachs. All right, one PR person left this team. Obviously, Imre Kaas can't perform any miracle right now. But what have these four people, these four high-paid people, done since then? You may remember, we once had a stork named Jaak, whom we all watched: Jaak flew there, Jaak flew up. Perhaps you could observe what these four highly paid people are doing? It is possible that their competence was to sell some brands, some products, they have not managed to act in a crisis situation. We actually have a lot of strong strategic communication gurus that should be working at this point. But we've developed an insane information vacuum about which another Popov, stand-up guy, said last week that fake news seems more real than real news. We're dealing with the causes right now, but I don't think we can just dissect what the situation came from and how it turned out. We can't stand by and see this situation persist. Neither being in good work in health-related institutions is a social profession. People's lives are at stake! In this light now come out in addition to the hate speech bill... First of all, we don't give people information. People are already tired because they don't know the firm points of view, people get... I don't like that word in a foreign language, I say people break, people are tired, people want something solid. Well, it's just this simple example that in one month, innkeepers are told three different times. In one month! Six down, nine down, seven down. Of course we can cross it, let's try, maybe we can change the time every week in March. But now maybe life is really going down. But now put the hate speech bill on it! It means it's like someone's afraid of their own people. He dares not say anything, or he cannot communicate with his people. We in the Riigikogu wait exactly the same way. I'm not looking at any political parties today. Last year, you probably remember when we gave all our powers to the Health Board, I was extremely critical, and the coalition at the time thought it wasn't a good speech. We've given these things away. Now we should look at the Minister, look at his responsibility. Tanel has a nice man to talk on TV, but now we need to clean the big bones: either there are changes in the Health Board or elsewhere. Tanel, you're the last pillar of the Central Party ministerial line that might go, and then all the rest are new. We need solutions and talking to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U157	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U158	Good manager! I thank all the waitresses! It is very good that we have been able to hold a debate here on vaccination. I will bring out a few things that have either not received enough attention in previous calls or have been left out of real focus. First of all, we have heard for nearly a year that vaccines are our hope that vaccines are the ones that will save us from our lives with these restrictions. It is therefore very logical and to be expected that, if only vaccination stands between the life and the constant threat of illness with our current restrictions and normal life, then the expectations of society are very high. It should be done quickly, it should be done properly. So I can get rid of that disease and get rid of the restrictions. So the pressure to lift the refrigerators around, use extra cars, set up tents, grab more vaccinees, call, create a digital registration system, it's all to be expected. Everyone wants to make a contribution to reaching a normal and unlimited life more quickly. And today, both presentations and many questions focused on technical questions, how could it be better, how could it be faster and how could it be that a person's place of residence or an elected family doctor did not determine whether or not he or she would receive the vaccine for himself or herself as a member of a risk group. But when we have put all our energy on technical issues and finally come to human vaccination and proper coverage, we will inevitably stand before a divided society: we have people who have been vaccinated and others who have not. And among others, there are those who have not yet received the vaccination sequence, as well as those who have had the opportunity to vaccinate, but they have turned it down. How do we move forward as a society in this situation? This was also at the end of today's questions, such as whether masks should not be hospitalised or whether non-vaccinated should not receive equally free assistance, how to compensate for sick days, whether to be more generous for those who have been vaccinated, how much the employer might know when it comes to sensitive health data, as is the case with vaccination. In fact, the employer cannot know whether a person has been vaccinated or not. Such questions in this Chamber, I think, still point to a very worrying problem. Some of the measures may be those that can be implemented to motivate people to come into vaccination. But I think there's something far, far more dangerous in here. How do we resolve the question of whether an unvaccinated person can be taken into nursing homes? Can the caregiver in the hospital be unvaccinated? What about the doctor? Can an unvaccinated teacher only give an hour with personal protective equipment, or can he also give an unprotected lesson, or can he only give an online lesson? These concerns are not limited to one school, one hospital or one employer. There are already a great many working groups to whom they are concerned. May it be a matter of sharing coffee, celebrating birthdays, or sharing responsibilities. How are these agreements made so that no one has the pressure to disclose sensitive personal data, no one feels discriminated against, is put in an awkward situation? I think that this is actually a much more complex debate and much more sensitive than the technical issues relating to reaching the people with the vaccine. Yes, with the first rush, we will no doubt have to overcome the spread of the virus. Vaccination has already shown its effect and needs to be further addressed. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U159	Three extra minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U160	But also in the Riigikogu, we could discuss much more about how we will proceed as a society when some of us have been vaccinated and some of us have not. As we are seeing today, there was very great public pressure to lock Estonia up, to impose greater restrictions. In today's speeches, on the one hand, there was pressure on people to vaccinate themselves, on the other hand, a great opposition to the fact that vaccination is suddenly not a man-made decision, but is being imposed. We are in a situation of conflict where there are very different opinions and beliefs on how to resolve it. If this is not agreed in a wider society, these conflicts will be transferred to every family and work group, schools and hospital staff. So let's have the next debate on what happens after the next few months, when we have done a great deal of the vaccination, when the vaccine has also become available to people who are not at risk, and we need to know how we will proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-09_U161	Thank you. The negotiations are over. Many thanks to all the rapporteurs, all the members of the Riigikogu who were active questioners and speakers! We have dealt with this item and this is the end of today's sitting. See you tomorrow!
