ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Happy Presidents of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! We will begin the Monday session of the 7th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First we have the oath of the Minister of Culture Tiit Terik. In particular, President Alar Karise has been appointed Minister of Culture by decision No 5 of 3 November. Next I ask Tiit Terik to take an oath to the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U3	Good fellows! Now is a great opportunity for all of us to hand over drafts and enquiries. I would like to ask everyone in the Riigikogu who wishes to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please welcome the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the ten members of the Envoy Group of the Fatherland Party, I will refer the inquiry to Auditor General Janar Holm. The inquiry concerns the procurement of rapid tests by the Ministry of Education and Research, which has recently been discussed very much in Estonia. In particular, as a reminder that already on 2 March 2021, the Scientific Advisory Board proposed to the Government that tests be carried out in schools and already on 18 March, the Ministry of Education and Research announced that EUR 850000 would be allocated by autumn, the beginning of the academic year and that rapid tests would be carried out. However, we have arrived in November in a situation where it is said that a decision needs to be taken within ten minutes. How we got into this situation with half a year's preparatory work is quite a fact worth mentioning in itself. But, of course, transparency is all the more important as regards the conduct of this whole procurement. Why did the price of the procurement turn out to be exactly the price? Why was the company selected specifically? And so on. We ambassadors have a series of questions for the Auditor General and we hope that the Auditor General and his department will be able to give some clarity and insight in this confused story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U5	Now, are there any other members of the Riigikogu who have the desire and interest to hand over drafts and enquiries? Please, this moment is now! If not, we will move forward and I will ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U6	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Family Law (amending the age line of sexual self-determination and marriage). In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice. Thirdly, the draft law on ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. Fourthly, the draft law amending the law on ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. And fifthly, the draft law on the ratification of the treaty amending the agreement on the transfer and sharing of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. In processing these three draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have adopted five drafts and one inquiry on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, and the Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now is a great opportunity to carry out a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U8	83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Let us now go to the specification and approval of the agenda. May I have your attention, please? In particular, point one, with the agreement of the author of the inquiry, the reply to Question No 89, which is scheduled for today, is postponed. Point two, the Committee on Culture has proposed to remove 13th item from the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, the first reading of the Act amending the Act on the Performance Institution and the Law on the National Opera Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Good fellows, we'll go before the vote... We also have a procedural question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U9	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Is it also known why the Committee on Culture presented it last week, the Bureau has put it on the agenda, and now they have withdrawn unexpectedly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U10	Thank you. I don't know why. [[A voice from the hall.]] I don't know. Now, with these two amendments, let us prepare for the vote on this week's agenda. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U11	Thank you. Why don't you explain why this first question of Riigikogu member Anti Polish forest is cancelled? The answer is the Minister of Culture. As far as I know, Tiit Terik has been in office for at least ten minutes. As a minister, he should know all things when he comes to office. Why is it deleted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U12	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, the questioners have been approached and, in connection with the ministerial exchange, they have been asked to postpone the reply to this question, with which they have agreed. If that's not the case, please let me know, but I can see the head nod here, so it seems to me that this information is true. So that's the reason. I will now vote on the approval of the agenda for the seventh working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U13	With the result of 82 votes against and 2 abstentions, the agenda has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U14	Good fellows! Now let's move on to the free microphone. I call on all members of the Riigikogu... Rock Hard, procedural question, please! Quiet, please! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Please, let's listen to the procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U15	Maybe that's what I should have asked you to do when the agenda was approved, but I thought that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U16	Honourable questioner, I ask a little louder! [[It's ringing the bell.]] And please, good fellows, quiet in the hall! I really can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U17	I would ask such a question that we were approached by Hanno Pevkur, perhaps the leadership of the Social Democratic Group, last week and asked for our position on the hybrid sessions. We agreed that yes, they could be made. What happened to that thing? Has the board come to an agreement that in the state of health that I have seen today, Tarmo Tamm is sitting here on the sidelines, coming from Põlva, isn't it? [[Pick a buzz in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U18	Thank you. There are men from the far side, from the Rõuge area. But what I'm trying to say is what's become of this, I don't know what Mr. Pevkur told you, but the situation is that the Bureau discussed it last week. Today, the proposal by the Reform Party Group to move to the distance sittings has come to the Bureau. The Bureau must discuss this and then take its subsequent decisions. The board will meet tomorrow, as we know. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U19	Thank you, good Chairman! What's a hybrid hearing if that's what it is? I know there's a trial and there's a distance trial. Is there a third option?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U20	Thank you. There are two ways whether there is a contact session or a distance hearing. I think the questioner actually meant the distance hearing. But if you want, you can always take part in this hall. I guess that's what he meant, I guess. That was the reason. I would like to come back to this important part of today's agenda, which is a free microphone, and all those who wish to do so will have the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. I'm looking forward to active participation. Please! There's a free microphone, Mr. Grünthal, not a procedural question. Please, procedural question, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Here's the noise I didn't hear at all what you said. Would you mind repeating that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-08_U22	I've invited everyone to take part in the free microphone. No calls, so I won't open a free microphone and the hearing is over.
