ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our three-day briefing. And as usual, first the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U2	35 members of the Riigikogu are present, 66 are missing. Peter Ernits, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U3	Yeah, it's a procedural question. On Monday, we discussed here for a long time and wished for a point on the weekly agenda so that the Prime Minister would report to us on the situation of a coronal madness. The Chairman of the Riigikogu has said that he called the Prime Minister and his neighborhood several times, but the Prime Minister did not consider it necessary to reply. Now it's Wednesday. I ask you whether the Prime Minister has, during this period, considered it necessary to reply to you as Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U4	Thank you, very good question! The Prime Minister has failed to respond either to the Chairman of the Riigikogu or to other members of the Riigikogu. And I want to make a completely serious complaint to the Prime Minister, because a situation in which the Prime Minister refuses to pick up the pipe and in other ways to respond to the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the Riigikogu is completely unprecedented and unacceptable. We have a constitutional reservation, the Riigikogu is superior to the Government and Prime Minister. And by the fact that the Prime Minister does not hesitate to answer us or react at all, he deeply insults the Riigikogu and also humiliates us. The Riigikogu is the employer of the Prime Minister and must respond to all signals coming from the Riigikogu. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U5	Thank you. I'm asking you this as a procedural question. Yesterday, vice-president Hanno Pevkur claimed that, as far as he knows, the Prime Minister is coming to briefing on Wednesday, and then we can ask him these questions there. I'd like to ask you how it's scheduled for procedure. It should be that the Prime Minister does not write to the members of the Riigikogu what they have to ask him in Question Time. Each member of the Riigikogu asks what he has in his soul what he considers necessary for the functioning of state life. Does the Prime Minister have the right to write questions about Question Time for members of the Riigikogu and determine the topics that I will come there and you can ask me and ask me this question. Isn't it? How's that for procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U6	Yes, of course no one can prescribe to the members of the Riigikogu what they ask and when they ask. Every member of the Riigikogu has the right to decide freely; no one can determine that. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U7	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Indeed, it's embarrassing. The three opposition groups of the Riigikogu have asked the Prime Minister for a separate political presentation regarding the critical situation due to the spread of the epidemic. We are waiting for information on the planned steps of the government so that we can also hold a debate. If, however, the Prime Minister agrees to make this presentation this week or shortly, are you prepared to include this report exceptionally on the working week agenda? Has the Board of the Riigikogu discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U8	Yes, when we had a debate on this on Monday, the coalition parties also clearly supported the Prime Minister's coming here. I personally replied to the request of the Fatherland by letter, and this copy went to the Prime Minister, where I confirmed that I am prepared to give the Prime Minister the time at the earliest opportunity to come to the Riigikogu to make a political statement before the members of the Riigikogu on the measures relating to the corona crisis. We discussed this on the Board of the Riigikogu yesterday, and the board agreed exactly. So as soon as possible, as soon as the Prime Minister wishes, he has the opportunity to come to this hall before us. But, as I said, unfortunately, the Prime Minister has not insisted on responding to the wishes expressed clearly by the Riigikogu, and this is completely unprecedented. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U9	However, another procedural question. I understand that I may pressure you to say some things, but I am still asking you to tell me whether the Prime Minister has also been wrong about the rules of procedure. He has not responded to the speeches of the President of the Riigikogu, but he has sent us a message through the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, is he not that he will come to the Question Time and will be able to ask him all the questions we want to ask regarding the coronal crisis. Do we also have some sort of hierarchy that the Prime Minister is still obliged to respond to the speeches of the President of the Riigikogu and must not limit himself to sending messages to the vice-chairman who is, in addition, a member of his party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U10	I do not have any information that the Prime Minister has sent Hanno Pevkur, the vice-chairman, any message in order to pass it on to either the Chairman or the Bureau. The vice president promised the Bureau he would speak to the Prime Minister. But did he ever tell you if the Prime Minister has come to any conclusions about his behavior, I'm afraid I can't say anything about that. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U11	Mr President of the Riigikogu! What is your constitutional assessment, also based on the logic of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act: is it more appropriate to discuss this issue in a parliamentary state at this time-critical time in the form of an extraordinary political report than the current treatment of this subject in Question Time? This is the need to find out about the government's line and to discuss it. Was it legitimate for Members to propose this presentation to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U12	This request was undoubtedly legitimate and very legitimate, very timely, especially if we take into account the seriousness of the corona crisis. If we recall the beginning of this crisis, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas came here before the Riigikogu with a one-day delay because he announced that he wanted to wait for the discussions and positions of the scientific council and then come before us with the most accurate information. Whether the current Prime Minister had any similar desire, whether he also wanted to gather more precise information, we do not know. The fact that he still completely ignores the Riigikogu on this issue speaks against it. The Prime Minister must respond immediately, immediately to the signals of the Riigikogu. If the President of the Riigikogu personally tries to contact him, there are no justifications for simply hiding. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U13	Thank you. Yesterday there was a regular session of the Riigikogu's management board, where procedural and operational issues of the Riigikogu were probably examined. Did the Riigikogu Board discuss why we have a situation where there is no more important question about the functioning of the Estonian state, about the functioning of Estonian society, but yet the dialogue between the government and the parliament has broken down? What is the real reason for this so-called lack of feedback? Is it of a constitutional nature? Does the government or the head of the government have a different understanding of the logic of dealing with these questions, or is it, in fact, a problem of a substantive nature? Does this issue not seem to be so central to the government that the parliamentary debate and the provision of additional information to Parliament are not the most important at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U14	However, the view that the government and the head of the government really do not consider this issue and this situation to be important must obviously be accepted. He does not consider dialogue with the Riigikogu to be important either. And, as I said, this situation is unprecedented and this situation is unacceptable. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U15	I have a very simple question: has Prime Minister Kaja Kallas apologized for his behaviour and regretted it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U16	It is not, although it is quite clear, that such behaviour certainly requires a public apology from the Prime Minister and also a promise that this situation will not happen again. The fact that the Prime Minister is obliged to report to the Riigikogu should be acknowledged. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U17	Mr President of the Riigikogu, what is your position as President of the sitting? The position that has been noted here is that if opposition parties have applied for parliamentary dialogue and debate on this important issue, it is somehow offensive or undermining the position of the government. My view is the opposite. It should not be seen as an attack; it is, in fact, seen as a search for consensus in Parliament in order to support the government in seeking solutions, regardless of political orientations of political parties in this critical situation. I believe that the broader the mandate to reach solutions, the sooner we can pass this parliamentary debate, the stronger the government's mandate to seek consensus in society and implement solutions. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U18	Yes, indeed, in this crisis where we are, there must be no difference between the coalition and the opposition or different political parties, the Riigikogu and the government. We are all faced with one major problem that we can only solve in cooperation. And if this cooperation is refused for any unknown reason, it is extremely regrettable. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U19	Really unprecedented! But here's my question. We are the employers of the government and the Prime Minister. But if the Prime Minister has behaved so arrogantly, wouldn't there be grounds to start expressing his distrust?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U20	It is the competence of the Riigikogu and the political parties and members of the Riigikogu to initiate mistrust of the Prime Minister or any minister. And if there are serious reasons, if the Prime Minister makes himself superior to the Riigikogu, then there is plenty to think about. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U21	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I, too, am saddened by the interruption of this dialogue. I think that we should all work together in this Chamber to restore this dialogue without delay. This is extremely important. We do not have an alternative to this in a parliamentary country because, as you rightly said, we have to deal with the virus crisis together, as a common front, the whole people. Here's my question. Would you, Mr President of the Riigikogu, be willing to consider such a move to convene the Riigikogu's body of elders, which includes the leaders of all political groups and members of the Riigikogu's board, and to meet the Prime Minister to try to find a solution in this situation to restore this dialogue to the parliamentary state in a dignified way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U22	Thank you. This is a very constructive proposal and it is worth considering. All the more so since until now, the Prime Minister has failed to respond to the Riigikogu and to state the reason why he has not done so. Against the background of what took place in this Chamber on Monday, when all the political groups considered it important that the Prime Minister should come and inform us about this situation, why not really meet the Prime Minister as a body of elders and discuss this issue. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U23	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a very specific question. I've been asking you that for two days in a row, today's the third day. Are there any facts that the Prime Minister's health is not well? He just doesn't exist. What if we have a crisis in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U24	Thank you. I don't know what to say about that. Indeed, the Prime Minister has been missing for three days, just as Joseph Stalin hid after the great war broke out. But since the Prime Minister is here today in the size of his life and seems perfectly healthy, I think there is no doubt about that. She's fine, though. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U25	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I see the Prime Minister is in briefing today. We have been asking each other for quite some time now and discussing this issue, but would give us the opportunity to go to questions during Question Time. I suppose the Prime Minister can also answer these substantive questions. At least I have more or less the same question in mind for Question Time. So I have a suggestion: we will begin Question Time and get answers from the Prime Minister himself to all these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U26	Thank you. Yeah, that's a very good suggestion, and I would have come up with it myself. So I think we can finish this round of questions and go to Question Time. It has taken almost 20 minutes to answer these questions. They were very important and very legitimate, but we have lost one out of pre-registered issues. But I will introduce the members of the government involved in Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Defence Minister Kalle Laane and Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik. And as usual, first you can ask the members of the registered Riigikogu. They will also have the opportunity to clarify the question, and there may be another question in the hall. Question time is two minutes, three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U27	And first, Helir-Valdor Seeder asks, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U28	Thank you, Prime Minister. In the last few weeks, the spread of the virus is rapidly increasing in Estonia and today's numbers are record in a negative sense. We have not seen anything like this in Estonia all year. The situation is really critical. In your speech almost a month ago, when you were still a candidate for Prime Minister, you said, among other things: "The second wave of COVID-19 is absolutely the first thing the new government is going to deal with. " And I think this really is the most important topic in Estonia right now. However, the Coalition of the Reform Party and the Centre Party have started with completely different drafts in this Parliament, for example, by presenting a draft restriction on freedom of expression. Yesterday, a draft parliamentary democracy was handed over, which traditionally seeks to remand the special committees and the committee of problems under opposition control in a proportionate manner so that the coalition can, in any case, dominate them. Actually, the focus is on other questions. And to my proposal that you come to Parliament, it was also directed towards all the political groups of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the Riigikogu, you have not answered verbally, in writing or by e-mail. As we have heard, you also do not communicate with the President of Parliament who has called you and tried to catch you. Please tell me why you're acting like this! Are you afraid of Parliament or do you not consider it necessary to have a debate in Parliament and give an overview to the Riigikogu? Or is this subject not so important that it should be discussed in Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U29	Thank you. And thanks for finally getting the floor! I thought you two were having such a good time having this debate about me. But you were both political parties in the government three weeks ago, and you know very well that there will be a cabinet meeting on the COVID issue on Tuesday, where the scientific council will give an overview of the situation and make proposals on how to deal with the situation. It is indeed our desire to resolve this situation and to look clearly at these numbers in order to think about what solutions might be. There was a long lecture on this subject, and the reproofs you gave me here, I've got it all. I think that this communication can be improved by the fact that, as of today, all members of the Riigikogu will also receive the same overviews of the situation that the members of the government receive. There's one more thing I want to say. What happens in the Riigikogu, with which initiatives the political groups of the Riigikogu come out, is not directly relevant to the government. The main thing we do in the government is to solve the corona crisis. We are thinking about what are the measures, what are the numbers, what are the numbers we're taking when we're watching the decisions, how some restrictions could lead to a change that we want, what number we're looking at in the end, is the number of people in the hospital, that's the number of people in controlled breathing, and if we do any restrictions, what's the causal link between the limitations and their effects. Our government has been in office for three weeks and, indeed, all the decisions that have been taken by the previous government have brought us to the situation where we are today. As far as vaccination is concerned, for example, we said already in May that a vaccination plan should be drawn up in summer. But when I asked for an overview, it became clear that the vaccination plan had been first dealt with at the meeting of the Cabinet on 27 November when it was said that this plan could be presented at the next sitting. This plan was also discussed on 15 December. These are the things that we do urgently so that things can move. And on Tuesday, we did indeed discuss precisely these issues in order to find solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U30	Helir-Valdor Seeder, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U31	Thank you. I didn't get an answer to my question, and I'm gonna ask you again a little bit from another angle. The current situation can be resolved in good cooperation between the government and Parliament, and here Parliament should certainly not be divided into coalition and opposition. We'll do the same thing. The virus spreads in the same way to both coalition and opposition ambassadors and supporters. This is our common concern and problem and we should resolve it together. I can't really understand why you're not ready to communicate. When the government deals with this, it is important for the functioning of the country that you are prepared, willing to cooperate and to communicate with Members of Parliament. And the basic courtesy also states that if you cannot receive the call immediately, you will give feedback by e-mail or telephone on the evening or the next day or even the next day. You haven't done that. We are in complete ignorance here in Parliament, and I think that is also very rude. But I did not get an answer to my question as to whether you would be prepared to come to Parliament to give an overview of what the new government was doing. You have also introduced new restrictions. What are the plans? What is the vaccination plan, the economic support plan, the health system and the functioning of the education system? What is the government's plan, and are you prepared to discuss it in a parliamentary format?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U32	Thank you. I am willing and willing to communicate with the Riigikogu. For not being able to pick up the phone, I will, of course, apologize and try better in the future. That is why I have ordered the Riigikogu to receive exactly the same reviews that the government receives. If you have any good ideas on how to resolve these matters, of course we are ready to listen, but I am very pleased that you are saying that this crisis in COVID is our common concern and problem. But I have learned that the Group of the Fatherland and the EKRE are going to invite people to gather in large numbers for a public meeting next Wednesday. This is actually irresponsible, to put it mildly. On the contrary, all parties should invite their supporters to celebrate the anniversary of the Republic this year in their homes, small groups, outdoors, but not with big public events. If you are really concerned about the spread of the virus, call on your supporters not to gather. The biggest reduction in the spread of the virus is if we can reduce the number of contacts by at least 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U33	Helir-Valdor Seeder, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U34	I have a procedural remark. The Prime Minister is now caught up in misleading information. It would be very useful and necessary for you to come here and receive information directly from Parliament. The Fatherland has not called for any mass gatherings either this week or next week. It is a clarification, a knowledge for the Prime Minister and also important for the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U35	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I also hope that you will find an opportunity to come to Parliament and indeed to discuss the epidemic. The situation is serious, and it's getting more and more serious. Purely practically: on January 26, Estonia had an infection rate of 1.0. The truth is that the previous government is responsible for blowing up our infection base. It was a mistake that I have repeatedly pointed out. Now, after taking office, the new government has the risk that if things get out of hand, its effects will be much more extensive and heavier. These things were known, and it's actually happened in the last month. And the current government must also be responsible for this. My question is driven by your interview yesterday in the "Actual Camera," where you said that what measures to take, how to lead society through the current stage of the Corona virus will depend on what is the goal. If the aim is to avoid hospital congestion, then there are some measures, if the aim is any other, then there are other measures. This is indeed a relatively fundamental question of how to aim at what the government expects of society at this stage. And I was surprised that you didn't express what the government was doing, but you threw up such a fundamental question. Can you tell us what the government's goal at this point is to consider the proposals that the scientific council presented to the government yesterday morning? Is it just to avoid hospital overload or something else? And what are the targets for the incidence of infection, new diseases and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U37	Thank you. Just, first of all, I have to tell Helir-Valdor Seeder to adjust to an adjustment, I don't know where he is, that I have received information that Fatherland has registered a public event on 24 February at 12 p.m. in the Liberty Square. EKRE has registered a public event at 6 p.m. in Vabaduseväljak, inviting people to take part in this public event. My suggestion is to tell your supporters not to gather if you are really concerned about the current rate of infection. But I will now come to your question. Yes, there are different indicators and the question is the objective. In itself, we look at the various indicators in conjunction. One is the coefficient of infection, which is indeed a big problem. Secondly, the people in the hospital, our medical system can withstand and our sisters and doctors will not be overloaded. The third indicator is how many people have been controlled by breathing. And the fourth is how many cases are unknown and how many are known where the infection came from. Basically, these are the indicators in which we make decisions. What I'm saying is that when we look at the medical system, the people of the scientific council say that the numbers that we are being informed about the continuity of hospital activity are not yet critical. But yes, indeed, they are linked. If the infection rate increases, the number of people in the hospital is likely to increase. What do we see about infections now? We see that the infection of young people in particular is increasing. Young people do not get sick enough to need hospital care, and therefore the burden on hospital care or the medical system is not so great. High load comes from severe cases. And when it comes to the infection of older people, it's more of a decline. And just like that, the mortality rate isn't on the rise in any way, but rather in decline. And just like that, the number of people who are in control of breathing is in decline. When we are talking about restrictions, we must make sure that they are causally linked to what we want to achieve. Some restrictions are easy to do, but they have no connection to what this ultimate goal is all in all. And that's so our medical system can survive, and we can live with this virus, as we can, until vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U38	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U39	Next, Martin Helme asks, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U40	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! I'm really worried now. First of all, you will not come to Parliament if Parliament calls, does not just pick up the phone, does not find the time to call back within two days or write a letter, does not have any communication. And then you're gonna make accusations and appeals from that remote unit for people to give up their political and civil rights, such as the right of assembly. Well, we certainly will not give up on the fact that Kaja Kallas calls on people not to gather, even though it is in the ambient air and although the number of people gathering is limited. Then you will submit to Parliament the Media Services Act, which is a law subject to censorship by media companies. Your Minister of Justice talks about criminalising hate speech, or criminalising the dissemination of political competing ideologies in Estonia. Are you really building a silent era in Estonia in the third week of government, or some totalitarian society, declaring yourself a liberal party? But I'll come to the question. Today, I have read about your speech on the ERR about all this vaccination and the health crisis. And it sounded like the previous government was guilty. The previous government has adopted a vaccination plan. This vaccination program is not being followed by your government by allowing elite vaccinees to develop and not taking a stand against it. Your government can't manage to get incoming vaccines to people. Who's responsible for this? Is it you or your Social Minister? Or do you really want previous ministers from the previous government to be held responsible, with half of these ministers being the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U41	Thank you. I do not, of course, call on anyone to give up their political views or to express their political views. Estonia is a free country and everyone can do so. What I'm saying is, if, on the one hand, you're very concerned about the spread of the virus, as we all are, we know it's a disease of parties, gatherings. The most important way to reduce the spread of the virus is by reducing the contact that we simply do not come into contact with other people. And that is why I say that with the call to come to a public event, where there are many different people who are not families, but who are from different associations, we increase those contacts that we do not normally do every day. And so we increase the risk of the virus spreading. We are not prohibiting these public events, but my strong suggestion is that if you really want to follow what you say, if you are concerned about the spread of the virus, it would be responsible to tell your supporters that we will do differently this year. Let's celebrate in families, have a little sandwich, have a little white vodka and be there with blue black and whites, but we don't accumulate in large numbers, because it significantly increases the spread of the virus. That's my call. If you consider it important that the spread of the virus goes down, then in any case I recommend and urge you to give this signal to your supporters. Of course, I can't force you to do anything to demand it, but it's a request. As far as the organisation of vaccination is concerned, the vaccination plan has indeed been approved in the study, but it does not have a specific operational programme. That's where the vaccines come from, where they go, who's responsible for its organization. That's what we do every day to make it work better. There's also a lot of variables here. The moment you did this, we didn't know how many of these vaccines were coming to us. And the lot has been delayed, the deliveries are delayed. Right now, we're working on getting it all to work. The main objective is for us to get as many people as possible vaccinated in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U42	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U43	Thank you. I can assure you that taking a little white vodka and eating a sandwich on the anniversary of the Republic is not a different celebration than usual. But as for the torch train, let's do it differently than usual. If there are usually 10,000 people there, then this time, of course, a limited number of people. Now we come back to the subject of vaccination. The operational programme is the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I still remember from the previous government that we gave them a terrible pile of money to buy refrigerators, to buy freezers, to get people all kinds of other resources. They went into distribution. And I do not know that this should still be asked by the responsible minister why this plan has not been carried out or why this plan, which we have seen and financed, has not been implemented. That is why I ask again: who is still responsible for this situation? It's not appropriate to blame this on the previous government. We know that the corona numbers are about two, maybe three weeks. If you've been in power for three weeks, there's no point in talking about what was or wasn't in November. When we did this vaccination plan, the figures were under control and it was known that vaccination was to be carried out immediately, so it was possible to treat restrictions differently. I fully agree that no sweeping restrictions must be imposed. This is damaging to the economy and there are such negative consequences that we will be in great trouble with afterwards. But just as you yourself insisted in opposition: what is this concrete plan anyway? What will be closed, restricted, not closed, not restricted? What are the guidelines for people? After all, people are waiting for guidelines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U44	Thank you. It's just, when I listen to you, I remember that when you were in government, you started every answer by being in power for 17 years and not doing anything. We have now been in power for three weeks and we already have to take responsibility for everything that has happened a month ago. But, of course, we perceive this responsibility very clearly. It is our job to have this vaccination working properly, and that is what we are dealing with. We have a vaccination expert committee. The same plan that you have spoken about has been put in place for those who belong to it and are organising it in a row. But I want to stress that there are also a lot of variables involved. First of all, it's when the vaccines arrive. Unfortunately, these supplies are delayed. Secondly, there has also been a change in the order in which to vaccinate. If we want to keep schools open, it is very important that teachers and all other educators are vaccinated. Therefore, their vaccination came forward and this led to problems. We can get it to work better now. We create more places where we can vaccinate, we actually have those workers who can vaccinate. We need vaccination sites, we need to bring these people together, we need logistics. The logistics of vaccines is also different. This same AstraZeneca vaccine does not require storage conditions as required by Pfizer vaccine and it is therefore easier to disperse. But there's also this nuance that we don't vaccinate people over 70 years of age with the AstraZeneca vaccine because there's not enough research done on how it affects older people. That's why we can use this vaccine for other people. I really hope we can do this smoothly in a few months. At first there were problems with testing, but it works very smoothly, and soon the vaccination should go just as smoothly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U45	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Well, there's no point in pointing a finger at the previous government. You've been in office for three weeks, but the minister next to you is in office for two years and has had to do the same work he did in the previous government over the last few months. So if the current government is unable to get the vaccination started, it is not able to distribute the vaccines fairly, it is impossible to create a situation where people feel confident that the government can fight the pandemic in Estonia, then look around inside your government. It's not a whole new government, it's a half new government. And if you say that everything was done wrong in the previous government, maybe you should think about replacing this minister, because that minister has not done it. So my suggestion: not to point the finger at people sitting in the opposition bench row who were not specifically involved in this area, but to look around within your government. It's a comment on your kind, I'd say, arroganous accusations against the ministers of the previous government. But my question concerns something that I read in the press. Indeed, teachers, police and other frontline workers are vaccinated with a cheaper and less effective vaccine than the so-called key persons. Is that true, and if it is true, is it ethical?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U47	Thank you. It has to be said that you fit the opposition so well that you tend to forget that you were in the government only a few weeks ago, and that all the decisions that the government made, you are responsible for exactly the same way. But I'm not saying that the previous government did everything wrong. I didn't say that. I'll tell you where we are now, and I admit that we have certain problems that we can overcome if we want to make this better. That is what I want to emphasise. However, as far as vaccines are concerned, all vaccines that have been authorised by the European Medicines Agency, the effectiveness of which has been proven to be all equally usable and that is exactly how we use them. All vaccines provide protection, and that's what it takes to keep society apart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U48	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U49	Next, Indrek Saar asks and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U50	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, good Echo! There are many fundamental things in which I often disagree with Henn Põlluaasa in his role as Chairman of the Riigikogu. But today I have to say that this Question Time has begun somewhat awkwardly, and yet you, as Prime Minister, are responsible for it. This would not have happened if communication with the Riigikogu had been sufficient and as Parliament would normally expect of the government. So it is also my request to make corrections in my relations with the Riigikogu and to find the opportunity to hold a longer discussion on the subject of the "Coronal Crisis and Coping With It" in Parliament as soon as possible. But my question is the same as I asked in the previous Question Time. I'm going to quote you again from mid-December when you said that, first of all, we need a very clear plan for the next few months to break the Coronal contagion curve. Would you please give us an idea of what this plan is? In the last briefing, you said that this plan would come running and that the most important thing is that people behave responsibly. But if we want people to act responsibly, then we also need to explain to people what we have to achieve, what we have to do together and what the consequences of doing or not doing it will be. How's that plan coming? How can we be part of this plan, and how should we interact with this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U51	Thank you. First of all, when it comes to communicating with the Riigikogu, all these reproofs I have received and they are understandable. So we will improve communication with the Riigikogu. As far as the corona crisis is concerned, one variable or one indicator we are looking at is an infection indicator that we compare with that of other European countries. But there are other indicators. One indicator is mortality, which is very low in Estonia. There is also the continuity of hospital activity, or the endurance of the medical system, that is also a number, as are people under controlled breathing. All these figures show whether we're in the red or green zone. The problem is, if you had all the figures in the same red, the picture would be very clear. But that is not the case. For example, the number of people on controlled breathing tends to go down and has been on a declining trend for a long time. And that's a very clear indicator. What do we know more than spring? First of all, we know more about this disease, we can heal it better. Just because we're doing a lot of tests means we're gonna find out sick people early and we're gonna start treating them sooner. This is definitely positive. And now, if you look at it, there are a lot of people who have been infected in a hospital or nursing home. For example, I was just checking that 175 out of 192 nursing homes have already given their first injections to their people, which means that it brings infection down in nursing homes. Our aim is, above all, to avoid serious cases and deaths, and they are primarily in the older risk group. And for these people, disease is more likely to decline and the number of serious cases is also decreasing. This is the whole picture from which we have to make these decisions. But there are no simple decisions in the sense that there is no way that you do one thing, and all things work out. But these are the numbers from which we operate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U52	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U53	Thank you for your answer. I understand that this also went through one of the previous responses, that despite all the other figures being on the upward trend, there are more and more people in the hospital, the mortality rate is not reduced, as far as I know, and the rates of infection are rising, there are fewer serious patients. But the fact that there are fewer people in controlled breathing, or one treatment phase, may not actually be what really breaks the growth of the infection curve. However, I ask whether this is all or whether the government has some kind of plan, seeing that the situation is getting more critical, doing something different or doing more? And if there's such a plan, what are these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U54	Thank you. Compared to spring, what we know about this virus has changed. We know how he behaves, and we know how to cure this disease. I want to say that, in fact, the mortality rate of this disease has not been as high in Estonia as we feared in the spring. People's perception of danger has diminished in this regard. The same example I've already given. We can see that the main fires are in homes and workplaces, no matter where the limit actually extends. We're not going to surround the homes, we're not going to check on how many people there are in the village. Actually, the place where we can get infected is the jobs. If employers would tell them themselves, without imposing a specific rule on them, so please go all the way to distance work, work in homes, stay away from each other, then we would get the infection rate down. But we hear here that, on the one hand, it is said that do something, but it is said that we are not restricting anything, we are doing great events, we are gathering in public, we are calling on people to come to public events and spread the infection among themselves. What am I saying? Why have I oppressed people's own sense of responsibility? It's just restrictions are possible to some extent. We know what's easy. It's easy to shut down schools, and that brings in the number of the infection. But there's a price, there's consequences. If people themselves do not abide by the restrictions that we now have, if they do not keep distance from each other, do not wear masks indoors, etc., etc., then we cannot break the coefficient of infection in any other way than by going to a complete closure, which we do not recommend. What do we see in other countries in Europe, where complete closure has been for a long time? Well, Latvia, for example. Latvia had the same infection as Estonia yesterday, even though they have closed everything. People are tired of restrictions and maybe people in these countries are no longer going to be tested. So their numbers, yes, are coming down, but the mortality rate in Estonia is still lower than in Latvia or Lithuania, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U55	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U56	Thank you. Well, with this mortality, if we really could talk for a long time that we have one of the lowest in Europe, then now we have reached the average and the trend is the same as in cases of infection. Well, different indicators can be monitored, but we can actually identify the same. Since there are more infections and more spread in society, there are more deaths, there are also more serious cases, there are more hospitalisations. After all, Estonia's hospitalization is now at the highest level in the last year, so whether or not it needs assisted breathing, it is important in the context of hospital continuity, but in the big picture it is still a detail. The problem is what? The problem is, if R is 1,2, in two weeks, we'll have twice as much infection as today, and then the hospital system will be over. That is why the situation is critical and here to discuss that, well, but look, one way or another is the case and the other way around is that, and maybe the restaurant hasn't gotten sick, instead of getting sick at home, it actually reflects, in my opinion, that there is not enough understanding that the situation is critical. And therefore, I repeat my question: what is the government's purpose? Is it to keep hospitalization, I don't know, at the same level, to let him grow to a certain country or reduce it? This last one, I think, could be a goal. But what's the purpose anyway? We could assess whether the goals of the government's agenda, but also the decisions taken to achieve these objectives, are adequate or not. Hopefully tomorrow we'll hear these decisions and it's incomprehensible why it wasn't born yesterday. But that's it. Can the Prime Minister tell us what the government's antivirus goal is today, on 17 February, in a situation where R is 1,2 and there are 500 people in the hospital?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U57	Thank you. The aim is for the medical system to withstand and, at the same time, for us to be able to keep society as open as possible. By the way, as far as these numbers are concerned, Mario Kadastik, for example, has made an estimate. You're saying that if there's a lot of people who are sick, then there's gonna be more serious cases, there's gonna be more people in controlled breathing, and so on. But this graph really shows that hospital care goes like it's R1, but controlled breathing goes down, and it goes down like that for a long time. Now, the resilience of the medical system. If we look at the number of people in hospitals, now we're going to try to keep more tabs on whether they're sick with COVID, who've reached the hospital, in the sense that they've been admitted to the hospital because they have COVID, or they're in the hospital, and they're getting COVID. As of now, we have information that 1/3 of the patients who are in the hospital are there for some other reason, and they also have COVID. So this number doesn't really show how many people get to the hospital because of COVID. And it's confusing. Similarly, the anomaly is that when we look at different hospitals and the number and filling of these COVID patients, we have large hospitals, where in fact half the places are empty, and we have small hospitals, such as Põlva and Viljandi, where these beds are 100% full. And because those people who are already in the hospital got COVID. So as far as this big number is concerned, I absolutely do not deny that it is a big problem, but there are nuances that need to be taken into account. What do we know? We know that serious cases occur especially in older people. Now we've started vaccinating these high-risk groups, older people. Similarly, we have begun to vaccinate health professionals so that there are no internal outbreaks. That is why we should get these numbers down, and actually that's what the graphs are showing right now. Infections are greater among the younger ones. They don't go to the hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U58	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U59	Priit Sibul next asks and is answered by Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U60	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, Yesterday, there was an open session of the Social Affairs Committee, where we talked about the same vaccination plan, which has been much discussed at the moment. But I thought it was round and full of holes like a cheese ball. It was said that some family doctors or health centres are doing so well and there are no other sick ones. We also talked about the fact that there is, in fact, only one family doctor and one family nurse in quite a number of family medicine centres, especially in rural areas, who should start doing detective and secretarial work in order to pursue the priority target groups in the vaccination plan, find time for them, deliver them. My question is whether we are not putting [too difficult] tasks on family health centres, so in the end the problem is that we will soon not be able to deal with any other target group and other diseases at first level, too, and there will be a problem. And the second nuance I was upset about yesterday was the vaccination of elderly people in nursing homes. It would sound like if there was a nurse, she would vaccinate, but if she didn't, maybe an agreement would be reached with a local family doctor or family nurse and a chance would be found. This does indicate more chance than any specific national strategy or plan. So what's it really like?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U61	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Priit Sibul, Member of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your question. Vaccination against COVID-19 has mainly progressed in Estonia according to the vaccination plan. As you pointed out, we started with health care and social welfare. The Prime Minister also pointed out in his reply that 175 nursing homes out of 192 have completed today's first vaccination course. Just this morning, I was in contact with the Health Insurance Fund, ten are being dealt with in the near future, and seven are still being clarified as to why the desire for vaccination has not been signalled. All this work has been so-called proactive, or nursing homes have been contacted. We have not been waiting for them to do what they do and how they do it, but the Health Insurance Fund has coordinated this process in close cooperation with the Health Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs. As a result, such large numbers have also been reached within a relatively short period of time. For special care, 56 out of 61 units have been vaccinated and the last five are also in operation. We can say that in the care sector, both in general care and in special care, in fact, in community services, vaccination is practically complete. Now, as far as the question is concerned, if a new person comes to a nursing home or if, for example, there is someone who originally gave up the vaccine because of a medical condition, any disagreement, or even because he had recently suffered from COVID-19 disease, how they are vaccinated. In such a case, the so-called "post-vaccination" takes place either through a family doctor, a family nurse or a specific nursing service provider who is listed in the health insurance fund's price list. But this is exactly how vaccination is done at large, for example against influenza. There's no reason to worry or doubt, we're keeping our hand on the pulse, and we're keeping an eye on the post-vaccinations, too, for those people who are interested in it. We are certainly currently extending vaccination in the social field, we are talking about carers, we are talking about social workers, we are talking about workers in other social sectors, who are also more in contact with the provision of sicker people or services. There's nothing random here. With regard to the involvement of family medicine centres, I think that is the only right thing to do. There are 400 family doctor centers in Estonia with 785 lists, with a total of about 2,000 people in Estonia, family doctors and family nurses. It is the most competent and most capable resource for carrying out vaccination. These are people who have received appropriate training, obtained appropriate qualifications and have experience with vaccination of children following a vaccination plan, as well as vaccination of people in nursing homes (in cooperation with the Health Insurance Fund) and, of course, with other vaccines. From the outset, family doctors have been involved in the work of the Committee of Experts on Immunoprophylaxis, Dr. Marje Oona, as well as in the development of a vaccination plan. All these issues have been negotiated: burden issues, gradual expansion, both from the perspective of risk groups and between counties. We have not yet made use of all this resource, because the delivery of vaccines has been very small.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U62	Priit Onion, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U63	Thank you. Last time, when so much was said about refrigerators in politics, the refrigerator would rather conceal the dirty activities of a politician. Now they're hiding vaccines from people. You said the vaccination was going smoothly. But yesterday we were talking about why these vaccines are in those refrigerators. When a new amount of vaccines arrived, it turned out that the logistics of the Health Board was unable to resolve the situation, there were no correct lists, and there was a huge mess. Yesterday, at least in the Commission, I got this overview. I have never called into question the competence of family doctors, but rather the same capacity as today's Postimees. Really, I think there are health centres that can handle vaccination very well, there are a number of family doctors, nurses and assistants. But there are also, as I referred to, and as can be read in today's Postman, where there is confusion. Can you tell us what your best know today when we're getting priority target groups vaccinated? Please respond on the basis of the knowledge you have today about the possible arrival of vaccines in Estonia and all our problems in this area. When are we gonna get there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U64	Thank you for your question. Let's start with this first half. It is true that last week's vaccination rate was not in line with the amount of vaccine in Estonia. This was due to the fact that we expanded the circle of vaccinations, added frontier workers, had to draw up lists, agreed vaccination times, organize logistics. This standard established procedure, organised through hospitals and family medical centres, was successful at that point in the case of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, there were no failures. 15,000 vaccinations have been recorded so far, which is more than we had in the last week of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. But the AstraZeneca vaccine really stood at that moment. We have worked with various authorities in this regard. According to today's best-known knowledge, the AstraZeneca vaccine, given all the supplies that have arrived so far, should have about 2100 doses in stock by the end of the week. Then comes a new, next delivery, which in turn is mainly covered by orders. Perhaps now it can be said that more than 10,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine will be available this week, either gone or are about to go. Pfizer-BioNTech has also gone out in the main section, and there are about 4,000 doses in stock for another injection. It goes out Monday morning, just like the first deliveries of the next shipment of AstraZeneca. There is indeed a bit of Moderna vaccine in stock, the 1950 doses that have been stored for the second injection because deliveries of the Moderna vaccine are relatively intermittent and long and it should be taken into account that after 28 days a person needs a second dose. So, actually, stock levels are decreasing very quickly. This week, we have been able to operate systems in the field of education, internal security and defence, and we are expanding the social sphere. According to prioritisation, vaccination will be continued next week for all target groups. Frontline workers are being added and, at the same time, the circle of family medicine centres is being expanded to invite older people and people with other chronic diseases to vaccinate. So there were temporary glitches, I admit, there's no question. But to tell you that the general process is right down that's not true. Estonia is faster than the European Union average and our pace has also been higher in the region than in other countries in the region. The vaccines come in at a pretty good rate, as the previous government decided to buy the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine somewhat above the prescribed norm and the AstraZeneca vaccine significantly above the prescribed standard. We took more than 50% more than our usual number of inhabitants. This actually gives us the opportunity to be one of the fastest vaccineers in the European Union in the near future. That is definitely the goal. And if we're not, you can invite me to answer to that question. No doubt I'd be happy to do that. As an active associate with family doctors, I have no doubt about the ability of family medicine centres. Of course, this is precisely why we have started from bigger places, that it is easier to try logistics there and make sure everything works. Gradually, they move to smaller family health centres. For those in need of support, local hospitals are ready to offer it. Hospitals have done about half of all vaccinations in Estonia. Of course, if any failure occurs, the Health Board and the Health Insurance Fund will help. The lists have been drawn up in cooperation with the Health Insurance Fund, the data has been taken out by diagnosis and age, and no one has to do any handicrafts there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U65	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U66	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I might start a little bit wider. In fact, this area, which we are talking about here today, and in relation to which the Prime Minister has been fairly or unfairly skinned here, is actually an area for which you are responsible. You were in charge of the previous government, and you're still in charge. You have received tens of millions of euros to fight the Coron from the previous government, and I do not know whether it has been used or wasted. In short, a suggestion: finally get to work and ask for more money or do more, or you will continue to set your new Prime Minister on fire. But I also have a very specific question. I know your office has been asked these questions and some answers have come from there, but I will ask you now. Today, on the basis of numerous scientific studies and WHO recommendations, it is clear that the PCR methodology, as we use it, needs a rapid review. There has been a clear signal from scientists that the current PCR testing will lead to massive false positive responses. Therefore, our statistics, on the basis of which we make decisions on the closure of businesses or the isolation of people, are also likely to be incomplete. Is and when PCR testing in Estonia to be carried out on modified evidence-based basis and using a method that shows more true results? And has the Scientific Advisory Board provided the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Labour and Health with a written form of analysis of benefits and damage to justify various restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U67	Thanks for the questions. I might start with a reference to the beginning. As far as work is concerned, the health sector has been helping to resolve this crisis for over 12 months now and will continue this work. In the European view and in the Estonian view, we have actually done rather well. It's a reality. The previous government has contributed to this and must contribute to the current government, both financially and by decision. Undoubtedly, these tens of millions have helped. But let us not forget that this is not Estonia's peculiarity, it is a global crisis where the countries have put billions to strengthen the health system and will continue to put it. As far as the PCR method is concerned, Estonia is based here on protocols agreed at European Union level, protocols agreed at WHO level. These issues are primarily for the Health Board, of course also for the COVID-19 Scientific Advisory Board evaluation. We've accepted a PCR test, a routine shot from the nose. Throat flushing is now also available, which has been tested for a long time and is offered by SYNLAB, for example, to children and those who, for some reason, are more difficult to sample from the nose. In some cases antigen tests are also used; they produce faster results. For example, in a particular site, if rapid detection is required, antigen tests are used, which are usually also taken as a sample of catape. At the moment, we have no reason to believe that the tests carried out in Estonia are inaccurate, looking at the results of the re-tests and also looking at the overall percentage of hospital needs compared to those affected. Perhaps Estonia has a rather good overview of how widespread the virus is. Of course we know this test is allergic. It has been said before that the PCR test can produce a positive result even if a person has already recovered, even if certain "viral" debris is left in his system. It's all known information. Even then, a person must be more careful, if the test may still be positive, maybe at the border. If a doctor considers that a person is actually infected, he or she has the right to declare a person safe and to release him or her from isolation. If you have more specific questions, you can always send them in writing. We can, if necessary, have either the Scientific Advisory Board or the Health Board evaluate the analyses you referred to earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U68	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U69	Next, Helle-Moonika Helme asks and answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U70	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Since you have dealt with this future public event so much here, I would first like to remind you that the public event is currently limited. It takes place in the fresh air, it is covered by protective equipment approved by the Health Board and it is in a large territory where diversification can be ensured. And I would like to remind you that if you advise people to stay at home, according to recent studies, one third of the infection is actually occurring not at public events or in the fresh air, but at home. But let's get to the question. You said last week on "Just Postimees" that if the European Medicines Agency gives Sputnik a green light to Russian coronal vaccine, you see no reason why Estonia should not consider acquiring Russian coronal vaccine. We know that the European Commission failed completely in the case of the vaccine production agreements and began to look desperately even towards a country that had just begun to be discussed with regard to the introduction of new sanctions for human rights violations there. The visit of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, Josep Borrell, to Moscow was a major failure in every sense for Europe. Unfortunately, when he went to Moscow, he also expressed the idea that the European Union could introduce Sputnik's vaccine, even though it was produced in a country that showed very clearly that they do not share the European values that you have praised. However, at the same time, you also made a similar statement and, of course, the Russian embassy responded and shared your interview as a positive message. It was only when the Reform Party sent good news to the Russian embassy that Estonia wanted to step out of NATO and be part of Russia. Now the Reform Party once again delighted the Kremlin propaganda machine. Yes, you can say that these amendments were not credible and, for Sputnik, that [you will consider this] when the European Medicines Agency authorises. But obviously you still haven't realized that your words have weight. You're communicating not only yourself, but the whole country. And both your amendments, which were the subject of a lively debate in the Russian media for more than a week, and your enthusiasm for the possibility of introducing the Sputnik vaccine in Estonia...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U71	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U72	...has triggered the Russian propaganda machine. My question is this: will you delight the Kremlin with these statements, or will it be a determined behaviour, and what could be your next Eastern statement that will trigger the propaganda machine there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U73	Thank you. You obviously have completely special rights in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. If you usually have to have a question limited to two minutes, you managed to do it in almost three minutes. But you have the privilege of having a member of your party as chairman of the Riigikogu and acting accordingly. First of all, about this public event, I would like to say that indeed, it is now that there should be groups of up to ten and a maximum of 500 people at the whole event. Indeed, if you can ensure this and say that 500 people will come to this event, you will walk around and make sure that these are groups of no more than ten, then you will do well. I very much hope that you can be taken from this word that you are applying control over the spread of the virus. Now, as far as Sputnik is concerned, it is precisely that the European Medicines Agency will make all these preliminary rulings on whether the vaccine is effective and whether the vaccine can be used. But Russia has not made such a request. He has been repeatedly told that if this vaccine is actually so effective, you should submit an application and the European Medicines Agency will process it within two months, as it will handle all other vaccines. Russia actually wants to use this vaccine to buy more geopolitical influence. Why, unless you have a vaccine that is said to be so effective, you will not vaccinate your population at the first stage, but rather try to use it as a geopolitical tool to buy influence. And that is what Russia has done. But I will stick to the fact that the European Medicines Agency will decide whether or not vaccines are appropriate. If a permit has been granted and if we need an additional vaccine, we can consider whether to allocate money if it is effective. But we do not know that now, there is no point in discussing this, because such an application has not been made to the European Medicines Agency. This vaccine is not available on the European market.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U74	Thank you. I must make a remark to the Prime Minister that the talk here of some sort of privilege is absolutely unfounded. [I don't know] whether it comes from not knowing the clock or something else. Three minutes is never allowed for anyone here. Helle-Moonika Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U75	Thank you. I'm trying to stay within parliamentary mathematics for minutes. I will try to ask you more quickly for an additional question, so it will come together nicely for four minutes. As my question is also about European cooperation and security, I will next ask about the European Union's common policy, for which you, as well as the new Foreign Minister and the new government, have made it a priority in their actions. With the recent events in Russia, the issue of sanctions has once again arisen. I agree that sanctions are sometimes a very strong tool for influencing foreign policy, and they must certainly be used if they are to show obvious benefits, for example, in respect of international law and human rights. What could be the position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia in imposing new sanctions by the European Union? Should we also initiate a question on the sanctioning of Nord Stream 2 or is it too difficult to raise in the European Union's diplomacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U76	Thank you, Helle-Moonika Helme, for sticking to time this time! Mikhail Lotman, I think you have a procedural question. A microphone for Mr. Lotman, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U77	I have a procedural question: how do these names appear on the board? Right now it seems that those who are remotely involved are coming before, because at first my name was above Uno Kaskpeit, but now he appeared before me. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U78	Thank you. In fact, the names should come in the order of the button and those who participate on the Internet should have no advantage, as far as I know. Mr. Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U79	The names on the board changed places.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U80	I can't explain it. I didn't follow the line so closely that I could now confirm or disprove it. But, unfortunately, I have to rely on this table. I hope you can press the button on the next question and ask your question. Uno Kaskpeit, please! I'm sorry! First of all, answer Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U81	Yeah, I'd say that too. At every meeting I have had on video with European leaders, this issue of sanctions has come up. Borrell's visit actually helped. Even those countries that previously viewed the imposition of sanctions as less favourable, to say the least, saw that Russia did not really want a dialogue and that Russia must be spoken in a different language. This issue of sanctions will be discussed at the March Council. Perhaps it will even come to the debate next week at the February Council. But sanctions work. Russia does not like to impose them; Russia has made this very clear. I would also like to emphasise that these sanctions will still be imposed on the individual persons responsible for their actions, also in the Navalny case, and who are involved in this whole process. I myself have seen at European level that European leaders are a little impatient to see the consequences or results of sanctions. Very quickly it is said that, well, I don't know, six months have gone, whether anything has been achieved now, we are taking down sanctions. This is the attitude of some countries. I'm sure you can't go along with this. We, here, must express very clear and strong positions, and we, who know Russia well. But it is also important that we express these views in search of allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U82	Thank you. I will first take the question of Uno Kaskpeit, but since the President of the sitting may also be able to ask outside the queue, Mr Lotman will then be able to ask a question. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U83	Thank you. I hope I'm audible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U84	Yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U85	Thank you. I hope they hear me. I asked Mrs. Prime Minister once about the crossing between Valga and Valka. So your answer was indifferent that let the Latvians carry the virus to us. Latvians control Estonian people who want to go to Latvia for the fourth week. They shall be accompanied by proof that the sample is negative. Does our government really care if the Latvians deliver the virus to us and we do not consider border controls necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U86	Thank you. In Latvia, the infected numbers are currently smaller when they are in Estonia, so if someone is transporting the virus, then the Estonians are more Latvians than vice versa. But, as I have said many times, of course we are not indifferent, but rather the fact that this virus does not know the boundaries, and when it comes to closing borders, there is no effect that we would like to see when we break the infection curve.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U87	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It is very embarrassing that you communicate with the Riigikogu and its political groups through the press. You send messages through the press and what the groups of the Riigikogu want to say to you, you also read in the press instead of coming here before us. I do not want to be malicious in any way, and I think, unlike some colleagues, it would be very bad to create a new government crisis right now. In my opinion, the creation of a previous government crisis during the corona crisis was also completely irresponsible. You're a beautiful woman, sorry, I take it back, you're a beautiful person. And I haven't fallen on my mouth. You speak very fluently, but unfortunately, the content of this story is embarrassing. What do you say? You say we look at the numbers, we make plans, we draw up a strategy, we draw up a plan, we calculate, we discuss, we specify the objectives. You have all kinds of plans. It's not the Prime Minister's job. You even prepared a menu for us to celebrate, nor is it within your jurisdiction. You keep saying it's only three weeks. This development began two weeks ago, after you made your decisions. You really wanted to be Prime Minister, and be that. That means not just wear the Prime Minister's name, but act. Act decisively and quickly...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U89	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U90	...but not the way you've done so far. Actually, I don't have a question, it was just my benevolent suggestion to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U92	Yes, communication with the Riigikogu has already received this message in every way. I consider this very important and say that I will improve communication with the Riigikogu. Yeah, it's the government's job to decide. Decide also to solve this corona crisis or to solve the problems that we are facing because of this corona crisis. But decisions must be justified and based on facts and arguments. There must be a causal link between the decision and the outcome. And that is why these decisions need to be considered. Indeed, when we talk about restrictions, there are restrictions that are very easy to do. But as I've said many times, one side is purely this infection indicator, the people who get this virus. But there is also the other half of them as invisible victims that we do not see every day, but who also suffer from this crisis. So we have to find a balance. And the fact that we take the time to make decisions is that when the Scientific Advisory Board comes up with proposals on Tuesday and we take the time until Thursday to make decisions, it is not really very much in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U93	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U94	Next, Helmen Kütt asks and is answered by Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, A third public social committee meeting was held yesterday, and a number of issues and concerns regarding vaccination became clearer. It is true that criticism was raised yesterday in the Commission by the ambiguity of the messages of the various authorities and also of the members of the government, sometimes also inconsistency, and it seemed that there was a lack of cooperation. This was highlighted by representatives of family doctors as well as by patients' representative organisations. After the meeting, there were a number of visitors, though callers, though e-mailers, and some of their questions I can pass on to you. Maybe you can give an appropriate answer. A few weeks ago, data were collected about people doing social work in local governments, but also about people working in the day care centre. Very often, in the case of older people, it is the only link between the elderly and the outside world for a social worker visiting home in the framework of open care. But he's also a danger to the person who's at home, he's a possible person who brings the disease. Through the media and press releases, it is known that the vaccination of teachers has started very well, and, as has been emphasised here today, vaccination in social welfare institutions, including special care institutions, is almost reaching its final destination. But nothing has been heard of people working in the social field of the local government. Maybe you can share some information about when these people might have the hope of getting vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U96	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt! Thank you for the question, and thank you also for their cooperation and reflection during this crisis, in the spring, in the autumn and now, in winter. Indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs has mapped out the need for vaccination of social welfare workers in local governments. We made this mapping by January 22nd. Social workers, child protection workers, home care providers, social transport service providers, carers, supporters, personal helpers and some others are among the social workers of local governments. A more detailed list of workers who would definitely like to receive their vaccination will be put together this week via the Social Insurance Board. In turn, he will forward these data to the health insurance fund, which is the main organiser of the vaccination in our view. The Social Insurance Institution, Health Insurance Fund and Health Board, which are responsible for the warehouse and logistics side in cooperation with private partners, work closely together here. In any case, I very much agree that when we talk about frontline workers, as I have been saying from the outset, social workers also belong to them. I can't imagine being any different. The launch of vaccination in the field of education was due to the fact that there is, on the one hand, a very strong expectation and concern about the continuity of education. But it is certainly not meant to be a so-called 'priority law' in any sense. Education, internal security, social affairs and defence are all equally important for the functioning of the Estonian state. There are certainly more risks and concerns in the social field. This is also the reason why we have started vaccination of people and carers at different risk groups through family doctors - we know that the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccine cannot be transported in such a way as to vaccinate under domestic conditions. First, each vial contains six doses. Secondly, it is a matter of shaking and other such issues, not to mention the extreme freezing temperature. At the moment, we have gone this way to vaccinate those people whose health depends on someone else's life and health. It will certainly reduce the risk of infection somewhat, although more precise studies are being carried out to determine the extent to which the vaccinated person may, in turn, pose a risk of infection to others. We also want to start implementing home vaccination in the near future when we are talking about the social sector, especially perhaps cared for. This is likely to be possible with the AstraZeneca vaccine. We are currently working on a corresponding guide, because here too are, in fact, logistics issues, just again with this shaking issue. But it's a little bit easier to maintain, so this vaccine will be kept at normal refrigerator temperatures. And unlike Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna, for which the open vial should be used within six hours, astraZeneca has 48 hours to put the vial back in the refrigerator. So basically, it's possible to open this 10th vial, do some vaccinations at the family doctor's centre and go home to some people with doses the next day. This option is not available for Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna, for which the entire procedure should fit in six hours from reconstitution. Understandably, this is not very realistic in view of all these storage and transport conditions. This is a general practice, which is also used by other countries. I hope that we will soon reach, in addition to social workers, the vaccination of those at home whose mobility is limited for whatever reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U97	Rene Chef, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U98	This is indeed a procedural question. Mr Lotman pointed out that, before he had put himself in line, another colleague came before him who was outside the Chamber of the Riigikogu, i.e. attending a remote hearing. I think I saw correctly how [in this case] Mart Helme was first and later, shortly afterwards [the system] threw him second in the order of questions when Mr Odinets' question came in from outside. So I'm gonna ask our IT people to look at this. At the moment, it seems that the advantage of getting questions in order is clearly the one who was at the remote session.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U99	Thank you. Did anyone else in the hall notice that? You noticed. Thank you. In that case, we really do have some kind of problem in the system, we'll have it checked and we'll definitely fix it. But since other people in the hall also noticed that Mart Helme was actually the first to ask, I'm going to give him a chance first. But before that, Helmen Hunter has an opportunity to clarify the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U100	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was worried you'd give Mart Helme a chance to ask, and I won't even be noticed at the end of the list. Minister, thank you very much for your answer to the previous question and we hope that this information will also go to social workers and municipalities. My second question would have touched on Sputnik's vaccine, but the Prime Minister has already answered it very thoroughly. It probably doesn't make sense to ask your opinion on this, but if you want, you can answer. Instead, I am asking the question that arose after yesterday's committee meeting. You can make sure it's true. This morning, it was called that next week, when the country's birthday and working days are shortened, and some days maybe family medicine centres are closed, some family doctors do not vaccinate 80-year-olds or older. There are two reasons for this: the week is one where [the family doctor centres] are closed on [some] days, and the vaccines are also missing. Can you confirm that? Is it somehow coordinated with the Health Board or the Ministry of Social Affairs? In fact, every day counts, and if there is a vaccine now, then at-risk groups should definitely be vaccinated. If you wish and there is plenty of time, you can also answer about Sputnik if your opinion is different from that of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U101	Thank you for the clarification. Let's start at the end because you said you were expecting an answer to this first. I don't have the information to have family doctors to leave between next week because of the holidays. The lack of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines that are suitable for older people's vaccinations may be true. Let's do a simple mathematics equation: if we have 718 lists and every week the Pfizer-BionTech and Moderna vaccines come in together with an average of less than 15,000 doses, then this means that we will be entering less than 20 doses per list each week. Of course, the real need is greater. At present, about 15-16% of those over 80 years of age have been vaccinated and this percentage is gradually increasing. It should also be taken into account that some people are already waiting for a second dose. Maybe every week we've set aside the amount that goes into revaccination to meet the 21-day requirement. But surely next week the vaccination of older people will continue and the vaccination of frontier workers will continue. As I pointed out earlier, as of now, about 12,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine have been ordered next week. The Pfizer vaccine is more than 4,000 doses from the current state of storage for the second dose, and a new order will be made at the end of this week for the next week as well as at the beginning of the next week. Surely we will not allow any "recessary" period. Rather, the stockholders were concerned that the number of orders might be higher than the stock. This has happened before. Perhaps there may be a situation where not all orders can be filled. Therefore, we have always asked family doctors and hospitals to make sure, through the Health Board, that the order is confirmed and that the vaccine comes to them. This does not make it possible to send the patient back and to withdraw the vaccination at the last minute. Unfortunately, that has also happened, that is an honest answer. I have a little time, so I'm going to answer the other side, too, but I'm going to answer a little bit in the other key. Currently, the European Medicines Agency has a new application for a marketing authorisation. This is a Janssen-Cilag International NV vaccine, which is also one of the vaccines in the European Union's joint procurement. Estonia has booked 300,000 people. If this vaccine is a single dose, we get 300,000 doses, and if we need two doses, we get 600,000 doses, which is 300,000 people. That is the agreement with the producer. The European Medicines Agency is currently assessing whether a single dose is sufficient or whether two doses are needed, as for other vaccines that have reached Estonia so far. So the next vaccine, which is quite likely to be authorised, is Janssen Pharmaceutica's. When we talk about the ex-ante evaluation procedure, the CureVac and Novax vaccines have now reached the order. Both are also vaccine manufacturers involved in joint European procurement. Estonia has booked 660000 doses of CureVac and about 300000 doses of Novax vaccine. Both are expected to be quite effective, with up to 90% reported in the case of Novax. There will certainly be news coming from there in the near future, but the ex-ante evaluation process is not that far off. Other vaccine products are neither in the ex ante evaluation process nor in the marketing authorisation application process. This is the answer to the question of what vaccines are expected and not expected in the near future on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U102	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U103	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have already noticed in the government that you have learned very well such bureaucratic emptying and nothing to say, and we have heard that today as well. But I would like to draw your attention to some very simple things. All these stories about vaccination and different vaccines, and that there will be 15,000 doses of vaccine, do you realize that we have 1.3 million inhabitants in the Republic of Estonia and that in order to actually control the vaccine epidemic, 80% of the population need to be vaccinated? 80%! How much is 15,000 doses of this 80%? My family doctor offered me a vaccination. I refused to be on the same boat as Marika Prisk. But he only has over 500 people over 70 on the list. Over 500! He had 36 doses. Thirty-six doses he had for more than 500 people. All the talk you've been telling us right now when you answer questions is just dim. Just dim! As long as the Government of the Republic of Estonia cannot guarantee us such a number of doses that would give us the opportunity to vaccinate 80% of the population, this whole other story is just one of those flies. By quoting Mika Waltar, your story is like buzzing flies in my ears. So what's the government's plan anyway? What is the government's plan to vaccinate 80% of the population of the Republic of Estonia over the next month and a half?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U104	Thank you. Before I give the Minister the opportunity to respond, Eduard Odines has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U105	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a little confused. As far as I know, I am ahead of Mr Helme in the order of my speeches. Am I given the floor, or do I have to join the Prime Minister's suspicion that someone in this Chamber will have advantages?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U106	Thank you. Unfortunately, it turned out here that our electronic system is throwing forward those involved in Question Time on the long road. This was confirmed by those in this hall who noticed it. Therefore, the order changed and the opportunity to ask was asked by Mart Helme, who was the author of the third question before, namely, the questioner on the side of the hall. I am sure that this system will be fixed as soon as possible, so that the order still depends on how quickly someone has reached the button, not whether it is pressed in this hall or by teleworking. Sorry, yes, the Minister now has the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U107	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Once again, there was a lot of such comments, but each one chooses his own style of expression, his own way of communication. I can assure you that in mine, I am not going to make corrections due to your comments. With regard to the pace of vaccination, in the previous government we discussed quite several times these vaccination agreements, accession and supplies. I remember there were parties that were more critical of the merger and there were those who were more supportive. I think it is very right and good that those who were more supportive were left behind, because otherwise we would not have the vaccines that we have today in Estonia. It's a real situation. That we are not satisfied with the current supply of vaccines, we all know. It is not just our concern; it is the concern of the European Union as a whole. This is a debate held at the level of health ministers, at the level of prime ministers, at the level of foreign ministers. And, of course, that is why Member States, in cooperation with European producers, have also worked to increase production capacity in the case of Pfizer-BioNTech. Similarly, other vaccine manufacturers joining the procurement have offered to cooperate in order to produce vaccines that have been authorised more quickly. We know that supplies are actually on the rise. In December less than 10,000 doses of vaccine were reached in Estonia, in January about 40,000 doses were reached, in February we expect nearly 120,000 doses and in March we already expect more than 200,000 doses. So, in fact, we see very clearly rapid progress. We would like it to be quicker, of course, but at this rate, we will focus on those groups at risk whose lives and health are most at risk. You rightly indicated that 36 doses may have been given to your family doctor's list. As I said before, we're coming to the country for about 20 doses per list. It is impossible to offer more vaccines than there are physically available in the country. That's the situation. We have negotiated with the producers ourselves. We made a joint return with the ministers of health in the Nordic and Baltic countries at the time of the temporary unilateral amendment of the agreement in the case of Pfizer-BioNTech and announced a reduction in delivery quantities. We announced that this would not work, and we insisted that supplies should be restored. This was done, and the first four weeks of the promised supply disruptions were one week. By now, the volumes have recovered, growing gradually. As I have indicated, we can also talk about Janssen Pharmaceutica vaccine, which may be authorised in March. This means that additional volumes are expected in the second quarter of the year. This certainly does not allow us to reach 80% of people's vaccination in a few months, but the fact that the possibility of vaccination is guaranteed to all Estonian residents this year is, in fact, double guaranteed by the current agreements to the Estonian state. Maybe we can buy 4.5 million doses. If two doses per capita are required, no matter what we have to calculate, 78% of the population, or the adult population, who can be vaccinated, do not yet have a vaccine for children, will in any case be able to vaccinate themselves and, if necessary, re-vaccinated themselves. That is what these agreements guarantee us. The time frame doesn't satisfy us, we're on your way to the front line. We have also repeatedly raised this issue at European level. But if we had acted outside these procurements, we would be where there are many countries in the world who are still waiting for their first dose of vaccine. At present, however, vaccination is a privilege that not all parts of the world have.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U108	Thank you. In the meantime, a little of the background to this confusion has been revealed. It is possible that in the case of remote participation, this button signal, although the button may have been pressed before this room, will arrive in this table with a delay. This may be a bit confusing, but we'll definitely solve it. Since we are not quite clear at the moment, I will also give Eduard Odines the opportunity to ask about this question. Would you like to ask a procedural question or a question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U109	Thank you. I would like to ask the minister a question because my procedural concern, I understand, has been resolved and I hope that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will resolve it for the future. Otherwise, members of the Riigikogu on teleworking will never get the floor. But the question to the Minister is my concern about vaccination in Ida-Viru County. Both in the media and in social media, you can read, hear and see that even those preferred target groups who should be vaccinated at the moment are not very willing to do so. There's a lot of mistrust and rumors. Even teachers, workers in power structures, as well as medical staff who are entitled to [vaccine] are not very prepared to vaccinate themselves. There are cases where even the family doctor's office has called older people and asked them to think more about whether or not vaccination is being sought and what the consequences may be. There is an increasing number of reports of the possible arrival of this new vaccine in a neighbouring country. People expect that soon this vaccine will reach Europe, and then they will all be able to vaccinate with a vaccine that is not as dangerous as those currently on the market. My question to the Minister is that what communication activities, what steps the government is planning to take to increase the vaccination awareness of the people of Ida-Virumaa and to mitigate the fears that people have. Otherwise, we get into the stereotyped thinking that the inhabitants of Ida-Viru County are somehow different from the rest of Estonia and treat our health crisis and solving it differently than the rest of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U110	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. A perfectly reasonable concern. Of course, we are constantly communicating in the health sector, in the care sector and in the wider population. The topic is also monitoring the interest in vaccination, the main concerns and questions to be answered. There have been briefings for both health professionals and educators, and now in February we are launching a vaccination campaign where messages are gradually being sent to specific target groups. Today we are talking about older people and people with a certain diagnosis, but later this circle will expand, because the goal is, of course, that as many people as possible use the possibility of vaccination when it opens up to them. For Ida-Virumaa, however, in fact, for all counties, we have moved through the channels of institutions by means of communication. In the field of health care, [we have moved] also through various sectoral associations, be it the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, who is our good partner, be it the Health Insurance Fund, who communicates locally with "services partners," and, of course, at the local government level. They can all help here. And I am sure that every member of the Riigikogu can also contribute by publicly setting an example by raising awareness on this subject, drawing attention to it and, of course, answering questions when they occur in the electorate. If we are thinking specifically about Ida-Virumaa, for example, today I have a meeting with the mayor of Narva to discuss Narva's health issues related to the construction and vaccination of the hospital. He himself has taken a very active role here in order to definitely increase awareness and activity. The interest of all of us is that if you are offered a vaccination, you will use the maximum amount of the opportunity to live in Tallinn, Tartu, Narva or Kärdla. But I agree with you that we must not create any stereotypes, that we have a particular area of concern. There are many sceptics about vaccination, such anxious and questioning people, and their questions must be answered, understood. But I'm going to go over what I said before when I said to Helmen Hunter that we're looking at the vaccines that have been authorised today. There's three of them. There's a fourth coming, Janssen Pharmaceutica's. In the near future, it can be said that in the coming months, an honest response is expected for further developments and additional information on CureVac and Novafix. There is currently no reason to expect any other marketing authorisation at EU level during the first half of this year. This means that people need to think about whether to vaccinate themselves with vaccines that are offered and that are reliable, safe, effective, ensure a very high level of protection against serious illness and, in general, a very high level of protection against mild symptoms, or to wait for an alternative that may or may never come. My recommendation is certainly to take advantage of the opportunities that exist, because protecting ourselves and others' health is the best we can do to overcome the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U111	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U112	Next, Urmas asks Reinsalu and answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U113	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! The country is serious and this crisis is serious. Deciding on these choices and considering different values is not easy. I want every effort on the government's part to make these difficult decisions in this phase of the escalation of the crisis. And I promise you personally that I will not, in any way, mock or ridicule the length of the decision-making sessions. I will avoid the rhetoric that the Reform Party used in opposition when, one of December Monday, news came about the crisis, the rise of the virus in Ida-Viru County and Harju County, saying that the government laid eggs on Tuesday for 16 hours when we actually made decisions. No, you can't hear that rhetoric out of my mouth. What I want to say is that I was sympathetic to your attitude, which was that you consider dialogue and cooperation with Parliament to be appropriate. Taking the liberty of presenting a part now on behalf of Parliament, on behalf of opposition parties, I ask you, Madam Prime Minister, what members of opposition parties have been calling for for for three days in the key to less or more ironic protest. Madam Prime Minister, are you ready to come to the Riigikogu tomorrow and make a political statement about the virus crisis and possible measures proposed by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U114	Thank you. Tomorrow morning, we will begin the government meeting and the cabinet meeting on these issues immediately. As you yourself know very well, since you were in the government only three weeks ago, the study session will continue after two o'clock. So in the event that we reach these decisions tomorrow, I doubt that the Riigikogu will be together at that time to do this hearing. But as I said, I am certainly prepared to debate with the Riigikogu. But I want to say one more thing. Since you are the main complainer that I don't communicate with the Riigikogu, I just looked at my phone for interest. When I was the leader of the opposition party, the largest group in the Riigikogu, I called you as Foreign Minister several times. You didn't take my calls or call me back. I thought maybe you didn't have my number. I texted you, put my name back there nicely, and I asked you if you could find time to meet me. Silence. Well, the Foreign Minister is probably busy. But then my birthday came and came from you with a message of congratulations, which I immediately grabbed, that you knew who I was, and I wanted time to see you again. Again, there was no answer to that. I didn't do that kind of polundra that time. As I said, I consider it very important to communicate with the Riigikogu, but I also consider it important to make decisions in a crisis situation so that there is something to communicate. I'm sure this communication can be improved, and that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U115	Thank you. A very quick question from Urmas Reinsalu, one minute to ask and one minute to answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U116	Madam Prime Minister, your birthday will always be remembered, you can be sure of that. However, as regards the specific question I put to you, I repeat my question. I'm not doing any polundra here. Three opposition groups in Parliament have requested a political presentation by the Prime Minister on the viral crisis. My question, by the definition of polydra, is that, Madam Prime Minister, when do you intend to come before the Riigikogu? You have not been contacted by the Chairman of the Riigikogu; we have not received any feedback from you. Give this feedback as a specific position when you will make a political statement before the representative of the people of the Republic of Estonia. At what particular moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U117	Thank you. At the moment, it is important to resolve this crisis and to ensure that vaccination can work properly and that we can discuss the restrictions that need to be imposed and which would lead to a change in the infection curve. All proposals on this subject [are expected]. I have been answering your questions here for two hours today and learning about the concerns expressed by members of the Riigikogu. I will take this knowledge with me to tomorrow's meetings, where we will make these decisions. And, of course, when such very quick decisions have been made, I am always prepared to communicate with the Riigikogu and answer questions, as I do every Wednesday in Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U118	Thank you. I would like to thank all the questioners and respondents. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, We will start the 5th working week session of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday and, as usual, have the opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First, please, Lauri West Forest!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Socialists, I am handing over the draft Act amending the Presidential Election Act to increase the membership of the electoral body and thus give back their previous representation to voters from local governments in the election of the Head of State. After the last administrative reform, 79 municipalities remained on the map of Estonia. This cut the ranks of local government representatives twice in the electoral board. Our solution is to restore the participation of 232 voters instead of 107 voters, which means that the electoral body of the President would not be today 208, but would still be 333, more or less the way it was so far. Such a change will ensure a wider representation of the people in the electoral body, and there will also be more men and women among voters who belong to an electoral union or to a political party outside the parliament, that is to say, people will be much better represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U121	There are no other applications. We have adopted one draft, and we will, of course, decide on it in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now it's a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U122	86 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 15. We can start the trial. Before we go to today's agenda, we need to decide on a procedural issue. Namely, the Social Democratic Party Group, the Estonian Central Party Group and the Estonian Reform Party Group proposed to the Riigikogu Board that the plenary sessions of the next working week be held in the form of a remotely participatory session. The Bureau discussed this proposal yesterday, the consensus was not reached, and therefore, as a member of the board, President of the Riigikogu Henn Põljaas has proposed that this issue be decided in the large hall in accordance with § 16 (4) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Mr. Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U123	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. The question of the working form of the sitting is important, but I believe that the content of the sitting is more important than that. The question concerns the three-day call by the three opposition groups for a political presentation by the Prime Minister of the Riigikogu regarding the spread of the corona virus and the possible measures planned by the government in connection with the escalation of the virus. My question to you, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, is as follows. Madam Prime Minister, unfortunately, in the Question Hour of the Riigikogu, to which he referred as giving [the place] a reply on this matter, did not actually answer. We received no answer as to whether and when the Prime Minister intends to come to the Riigikogu plenary. My question is: has the Executive Board of the Riigikogu discussed this issue and has the Management Board of the Riigikogu received a reply from the Prime Minister to the specific and clear proposal of the parliamentary groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U124	Thank you, Mr Reinsalu. The Riigikogu Board briefly discussed this issue yesterday. We took note of the situation, but we have to take into account that we have this week's agenda approved. And once again we confirmed in the Riigikogu Board, and the Chairman of the Riigikogu confirmed that if the Prime Minister's request to come before the Riigikogu is to be allowed immediately. We also agreed that if I happen to be in contact with Kaja Kallas on the Board of the Riigikogu, I will certainly pass on to him the request of the President of the Riigikogu that the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister communicate with each other. That's what I did. So, in my opinion, the issue is now exhausted, and we should not reopen the debate that we have held here two days before the debate on the substance of the sitting. Mr Reinsalu, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U125	Mr. Pevkur! On the contrary! This problem of the interruption of dialogue between Parliament and the Head of Government is not exhausted, but it has reached its point of departure in the course of this Question Time, because, regrettably, the Prime Minister has promised to cooperate with Parliament, everything else, but these words have no meaning if, in reality, we have not received an answer from the Prime Minister, when and if he is prepared to come to Parliament with this report. No one is questioning the fact that we have approved the working week agenda, which is not the appropriate problem. Parliament's Bureau is in charge of Parliament's work, and Parliament's Bureau must certainly fairly represent the requests made by all political groups from the supervisory powers of Parliament as a representative of the people and the competence to deal with important issues. So my question is specific: what answer has the Prime Minister come to the Board of the Riigikogu to the specific proposal of three groups of ambassadors? When and whether the Prime Minister is going to make a political presentation on this issue at a critical stage in the spread of the virus?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U126	Thank you. As far as I know, the Prime Minister's reply to the Board of the Riigikogu has not come in writing for the moment. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U127	Yeah, thanks! I will continue on the same subject raised by MP Reinsalu. The question is not exhausted. It may be the Vice-Chairman's idea that the question is exhausted, but the question is not exhausted because we have not received an answer. And if the Executive Board of the Riigikogu does not receive an answer in the form of a well-meaning collegial communication that the Prime Minister is called orally or is asked to come here to discuss one of the most urgent matters in Estonia and Europe, then I propose to go to the Riigikogu Board on a full bureaucratic path and make a written submission or request to the Prime Minister, or whatever we call it, with a proposal to come to the Riigikogu to report on this subject, for example on Tuesday, Wednesday, for example, on Wednesday, there is an apology on 24 February, for example on Thursday. We will then give him a specific precept in a specific day and in a specific time, because if you can't do well, there must be some pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U128	Thank you, Mr. Helme! The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, which we all follow here and, of course, the Board of the Riigikogu, governs quite precisely how the Prime Minister comes before us to this Riigikogu. This request, which has been made by the Isamaa Group, has been forwarded by the Bureau to the Prime Minister's office and, consequently, the Prime Minister can decide when or whether he will come to the Riigikogu. It is governed by the Rules of Procedure. I really sincerely hope that we understand that we have been discussing the same subject for two days, you have also been able to ask the Prime Minister in Question Time today, so that we can go to today's agenda. Because once again, the Board of the Riigikogu cannot directly force anyone to come to the Riigikogu's remote control. Even a member of the Riigikogu, who reports a bill, is not obliged to come to this panel, for example, if he has been appointed rapporteur for the committee. Mr. Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U129	Honorable President! We're starting to get a little horny about these things. Attention [turning] to the fact that we should start forcing the Prime Minister to come to this Parliament, the representative of the people, and whether we have any competence or power to do so, I think, is completely misguided. Parliamentary culture requires dialogue, which requires a dialogue between the government and Parliament. The coercive moments here are completely in vain to bring in. To apologise for the fact that if Parliament does not have the coercive mechanism to use force against the Prime Minister and bring him to this presentation, we will abandon it and push down the request of the large majority of members of a fully legitimate representative of the people's community with this pretext, I categorically disagree with that. My question concerns a very fundamental question. You said that the Prime Minister had not given a written reply to the Bureau, but the Bureau instructed you, if I have understood correctly, to have a conversation with the Prime Minister. My question is: did you propose to the Prime Minister to come to Parliament with a political presentation, as the groups have requested? What was the Prime Minister's answer to you because, unfortunately, in Question Time today, we did not receive a reply from the Prime Minister that would be measurable or estimable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U130	Thank you, Mr Reinsalu. Please don't interpret my words as they weren't. I replied to Mr Helme and it was Mr Helme's proposal that perhaps a concrete proposal should be made to the Prime Minister. As for my conversation with the Prime Minister, the content of my conversation with the Prime Minister was primarily aimed at the fact that when the President of the Riigikogu calls the Prime Minister, it is certainly polite that the Prime Minister communicates with the Chairman of the Riigikogu. If you can't accept [call] right away, which is understandable, she'll call back. It was the content of this conversation. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U131	Thank you. I suggest you read the parliamentary verbatim, do not remember the date exactly, somewhere on December 12 or something, when the members of the Reform Party, including the current Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, violently attacked Jüri Rata, the then Prime Minister, who announced that he could not come on the same day, but he is ready to report to the Riigikogu the next day. What fierce attacks and accusations were made on that occasion by reform parties! The Prime Minister was accused of not taking account of the Riigikogu, of not wanting to communicate with the Riigikogu, etc. Now the roles have changed, and for some reason we see no desire or willingness by the current Prime Minister to communicate with the Riigikogu. On the contrary, you are trying to make it clear to us that the issue is off the agenda. How can the question be off the agenda if the Prime Minister has not told us when he is prepared to come to the discussion with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U132	Thank you for that comment. I'm sure I'll take a look at that verbogram. However, as regards whether the Riigikogu Board or the chair of the Riigikogu sitting is currently the right addressee of this question, I am afraid not. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U133	It's getting tragic. My question to you. We should be a parliamentary state, but the behaviour of the current Prime Minister clearly smells like he is an arrogant rubber stamp holder and we are these miserable rubber stamps, including the honourable board of the Riigikogu. Does this show that the pattern of the current Prime Minister's behaviour towards Parliament is such as to keep his mouth shut and continue to serve?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U134	Thank you. I believe that Parliament is shaping its own culture, both in its speeches and in its state. Mr. Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U135	Thank you. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! You said, with the power and competence of the President of the sitting, that the matter was off the agenda. But my question to you is: what is the matter behind the agenda? Those opposition groups in Parliament who have requested a presentation by the Prime Minister have not given you any mandate to take the position on behalf of Parliament as President of an impartial sitting, as if these three groups had abandoned their request that the Prime Minister should have a political presentation before Parliament immediately, as soon as possible. What did you mean by the fact that the President of the sitting considered the matter to be off the agenda? Secondly, I want to say that you talked to the Prime Minister about taking the phone. But then the phone call isn't in focus right now. The focus is on when the Prime Minister is ready and whether the Prime Minister is ready to come before Parliament. It is not a question of speech in itself; the question is that a representative of the people, a large part of a representative of the people, is waiting for it, I understand that the coalition groups are also not going to be in any way responsible to the Prime Minister in front of this Parliament for a quick and critical political review of the situation with regard to the spread of the virus and the possible measures proposed by the government. This is not a step to attack the Prime Minister. On the contrary. We must have as much legitimacy as possible in the measures that we want to take to protect public health, and I think, in speaking here on our own behalf, but I believe that other members of the opposition will join it in order to find a greater common ground so that society can be united in combating the virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U136	Thank you, Mr Reinsalu. Once again, what I pointed out at the beginning was the fact that the grand hall of the Riigikogu has approved the agenda for this week. And the fact is that the letter you sent to the Prime Minister is gone, and our Rules of Procedure govern how and when the Prime Minister can come before us. So these decisions have now been discussed. Mr. Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a feeling you don't understand the depth of the problem. It's not that the opposition here wants to bully someone. Both in the previous discussion and in the Question Time today, it was absolutely clear that there are very significant barriers to communication between the Riigikogu and the government. The Prime Minister learns about the wishes of the Riigikogu and the wishes of political parties in the press and also recommends that we read the press to find out about his position. Unfortunately, in the press, we see conflicting messages. We have a strong desire to see the Prime Minister here in the Riigikogu to provide us with authoritative, adequate and operational information. It's not a matter of spite, it's a matter of state functioning, of normal functioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U138	Thank you, Mr Lotman, for your opinion. Once again: the Board of the Riigikogu can be based on the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu, how we organise our work. We have expressed our views on this week and decided how we will work this week. If there are any additions, for example at the request of the Prime Minister, then, as the Chairman of the Riigikogu repeatedly said on Monday and I have also told you, of course, it will be included on the agenda immediately. Mrs. Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U139	Thank you for the floor. You are saying today that the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure govern whether the Prime Minister comes here or not. Last time you always said it was governed by the Prime Minister's wishes. I can still see very clearly here that we have expressed our will, that working and working rules would allow him to come here, but what is not is the Prime Minister's wish. I would actually join some of the previous speakers here, who have said that we are doing this not to bully the Prime Minister in any way, but on the contrary, we are offering him a forum here, which is the whole of Estonia. He can tell the whole of Estonia very long, explain, not have to use these small opportunities, minute opportunities somewhere in the press to say something once here, once there. Perhaps, however, you would somehow affect him if you had at least such a direct line that he would finally like to come here and use this unique opportunity and platform to communicate with the Estonian people and with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U140	Thank you. Once again, they are directly linked to the Rules of Procedure and to the possibilities and wishes of the Prime Minister. Our rules of procedure regulate the establishment of a work programme by the Riigikogu's large hall, according to the work plan we are going to move on. If amendments are to be made to the work programme, these amendments can be made. The President of the Riigikogu can immediately add the Prime Minister's statement to the Riigikogu's agenda in exceptional circumstances. So there's nothing different here. Since the questions are all about the same subject, I will take the last five questions and then we will go to today's agenda, because we have no reason not to go ahead with today's agenda. We can move on to the agenda and then we can make further decisions about next week. Or, before we can even go to the agenda, we still have a decision to make on next week, which we have not yet reached. Let's spin around the same subject that we've been discussing here for days. All right, last five questions. Mr. Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U141	Thank you, Mr President. You are a person of great empathy and your complaint that the opposition ambassadors in Parliament are wasting time or spinning around the same place is completely inappropriate. On the contrary, this negative position, which currently concerns the interruption of dialogue between the Head of Government and Parliament, has become the reason for the protests by Members in less or more ironic key. And I am telling you that this protest will not be interrupted until we have received answers and answers that will essentially satisfy us. You said that the Prime Minister's wishes and possibilities may not actually be the circumstances in which he would not give us answers. What wishes and opportunities if you say that the Prime Minister will not give us an answer, whether and when he intends to come to Parliament to talk about the corona crisis, you mean? What kind of Prime Minister's wishes or opportunities prevent him from responding as feedback to Members? Secondly, I would appeal to you as Vice-Chairman with the same question or proposal that I made to the Chairman of the Riigikogu, and I felt that the Chairman of the Riigikogu was acquitted of this proposal. Would it not be appropriate for us now to have a meeting of the Riigikogu's body of elders, the board of directors and all the leaders of the political groups and to discuss how we can return to the normal pace of work of the parliament and find a form of work, which would not have been hindered, as a joint part. This obstacle started on Wednesday with this confrontation, we know perfectly well that there is no substantive answer. We need to get that substantive answer. Before that, I say, Parliament will not return to the normal pace of work, and that is irresponsible. It would certainly be possible for the body of elders to meet with the Prime Minister, to discuss this problem, through the interruption of dialogue. Two specific questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U142	Mr Reinsalu, when you listened attentively, the wishes and possibilities were discussed in the light of what was written in the home and working order, the everyday home and working conditions... Am I gonna answer it, or are you gonna leave, or what's the plan? Pleasure. The wishes and opportunities were mentioned when we talked about home and working procedures, how we have set out our work programme and how the work plan can be clarified and supplemented. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U143	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman and Member of the Board of the Riigikogu. The role of the Board of the Riigikogu is to ensure that the Riigikogu can do its job and, among other things, that the Riigikogu can do this work in such a way that the public can also understand what the Riigikogu is dealing with and that the reputation of the Riigikogu is preserved at least to some extent. It would be very nice if the Prime Minister and the government were to retain their reputation in the process. We can see that for the third day and, in fact, for the first time, there is a second round today, we are back on the same subject. This issue will not end unless Parliament receives clear answers. However, Parliament has not received sufficiently clear answers. My question is: as our representative and as a member of the board, how do you see that this situation can be resolved so that Parliament can move forward with its work, the Prime Minister can move forward with his work and Estonian society can understand what we are doing here? Because indeed, the most topical issue for Estonian society today, which we are expected to solve, is the health crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U144	Thank you. I agree with that one hundred percent that the health crisis is a primary and most important one that needs to be dealt with. As far as I know, the Government of the Republic will discuss again tomorrow, in addition to yesterday, the situation and possible restrictions and possible changes to the virus. This is what the government does on a daily basis, both at ministerial level and at the government as a whole. We can do our job just as we can do this work, how our rules of procedure also provide. We have six items on the agenda today and we should process them. We have been given how the Prime Minister can come before us, and that is what we must abide by. So if the Prime Minister signals further steps to the Board of the Riigikogu, of course the Board of the Riigikogu will take these steps immediately. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U145	Thank you, Mr President. The health crisis is so serious that, for example, if we look at the number of people infected with 5.5 million people in Finland in one day, which is half as low as 1.3 million people in Estonia, then, figuratively speaking, Estonia is on the brink of disaster. You mentioned just before that Parliament is shaping its own political culture. Today, we had to say again with regret that the Prime Minister is also shaping his own political culture. From what you have said, it has remained that the Riigikogu's home and operating procedures do not have any levers. And now we are in a situation where, ironically speaking, the subjects must wait until His Majesty wishes to appear before us. Would we not have reason to think very seriously about changing the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu so that the legislator can communicate with the executive power?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U146	Thank you for your question. It might get a little out of the question, but I'd be happy to answer. I, too, see the need to change the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, because there are very many points that have emerged from the practice of recent weeks, months and years, where there is a need to change the rules of procedure and work. So I believe that the management board of the Riigikogu could indeed convene the body of elders at one point and discuss it in order to start drafting a new law on home and working arrangements. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U147	Thank you, honourable Member of the Board of the Riigikogu. There will be 24 February, next week the children will start school holidays, the infection rates will be very high here. It is very strange to me that you said that the Government of the Republic is discussing the current health situation every day, the health crisis, but the discussions of this government could still bring the Head of Government to the Riigikogu and give us the opportunity to speak, ask questions. It seems to me that the Prime Minister could have told you if he couldn't come this week, he'd be coming next week, like Monday. We would have all been pleased, and today there would not be such a debate in this Chamber. My request is that you're in one party, maybe give him some good advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U148	Thank you. I'll pass on your request to the Prime Minister. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U149	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, do you, as a member of the Board of the Riigikogu, also have Estonia's independent and impartial media enquiries and concerns about why the Prime Minister does not want to cooperate with Parliament? Has the media addressed this question to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu? I imagine that during the previous government coalition, large headlines would have been on the cover of newspapers today if the Prime Minister had ignored Parliament's coming to Parliament on the issue of combating the corona crisis. But second, a few minutes ago, Madame Prime Minister gave an interview on the other side of the wall to an independent media channel right here ten meters away. Perhaps it would quickly become clear that you are taking a break and talking to the Prime Minister of the Riigikogu or that you are bringing together the board of the Riigikogu and talking. A moment ago, he was still ten meters away from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U150	Thank you. Once again, I quickly checked my mailbox from my phone, and I have not received any media requests on this subject. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U151	Thank you. In December last year, the Prime Minister, not the Prime Minister at the time, but Kaja Kallas demanded the immediate appearance of the Prime Minister in the Riigikogu and said that these figures were [large], 760 infected that day, and why the Prime Minister did not appear immediately at 10 a.m. Today's situation is 811 infected, even worse, but the Prime Minister in the language of the country is, for some reason, jogging or playing a fool. Why such childish behavior? It's the third day. The board of the Riigikogu and you as Kaja Kallas' party partner, why do you allow this nonsense to happen again? Actually, it's a prank!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U152	Yes, thank you! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I am really trying to chair these sessions, just like the other members of the board, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home and Rules of Procedure, and we have agreed these rules of procedure long before this composition. Indeed, as far as the Prime Minister's political statements are concerned, it is his turn. Does this time need to be changed or not? As I said, I believe that the Rules of Procedure as a whole need to be changed, but we are now living with the regulations that have been passed on to us, and these regulations mean that the Prime Minister will choose the time when we will come before Parliament. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U153	Thank you, Mr President. You have repeatedly pointed out today that our working and working rules do not provide for this issue to be resolved in this form. And it's not an isolated incident, it's what you've been saying over and over and over again. I was alarmed by your statement that we're only taking five more procedural questions, and that's all we're going to do. I recall, Mr President, that the place where you are sitting is not a dictator's chair. This is the chair where you chair the sitting and you have to abide by the law of the house and the rules of procedure. The Home and Working Procedures Act does not regulate how many procedural questions may be asked. Therefore, your insistence that no more procedural questions can be asked now is unlawful. Let me remind you: you are not a dictator, but you must respect the law in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U154	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. Indeed, certain powers have been conferred on the President of the sitting in the Rules of Procedure. Procedural issues must be resolved and procedural issues must, inter alia, be resolved, if they are resolved, if possible, all questions must be answered. But if these questions recur and are of the same quality, then the current Chairman of the Riigikogu has also completed the discussion of questions in this Chamber and has gone to the substantive discussion of the agenda. This is part of the work of the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu to ensure the smooth functioning of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U155	Thank you, Mr President. When we asked Prime Minister Ratas to come before us last time in the context of the same crisis, he came before us the second day, his control field was two days. At the moment, the Prime Minister has not even answered us when he might come before us. Of course, if important decisions are taken tomorrow, then an emergency session may be held, and I have no objection to doing so, for example, on Friday. But this field of leadership should not be endless, and here we should not have different standards for different governments. So we're not happy if one prime minister doesn't come on the same day, and now basically we don't care if he comes before us at all. Would that be good practice? I don't think so. I propose that the Prime Minister really find the time and that we can deal with this crisis thoroughly, even after he has taken the management decisions he needs to take.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U156	Thank you, Mr. Kunnas. As I said to Mrs Pikhof in reply, I will pass on Mrs Pikhof's request to the Prime Minister, and I believe that the request of the Riigikogu's board has also reached the Prime Minister, just like the request of the political groups. Returning to Mr Grünthal's question for a moment, paragraph 72 (2) is what governs the chair of the sitting and how to consider the speeches closed when everyone has received the floor and the agenda has been adequately dealt with. On this [issue], we have already addressed procedural issues in three sessions. But let's take these three questions, which are now registered, nicely off everything. There you go. Fire at once! Mr. Laneman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U157	I have a purely procedural question. This is precisely because I feel that a whole series of procedures designed for the smooth management of the country do not work. Worse still, I have the feeling that the seriousness of this situation has not been understood to the extent necessary either by the Prime Minister or, unfortunately, by the Board of the Riigikogu. Some facts. The Prime Minister has not yet agreed to appear before the Riigikogu. Legislative power cannot do its job as it should and as the voters expect. There's a crisis in society. And the background is interesting: today the Foreign Intelligence Office described the threats to Estonia from outside, including the big lessons to be learned in the autumn. My concern about procedures now is that if, in this relatively soft crisis, our procedures do not guarantee the work of important authorities and officials, how can we be sure that we can face more serious crises relating to security? The specific question is: what and when do you intend to take action at the level of the Riigikogu's board to somehow push this situation for the better?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U158	Thank you, Mr. Laneman. You have also been a member of the government, albeit briefly, but, nevertheless, and you know that the right to make decisions to resolve the health crisis, the right to make quick decisions about restrictions, too, is the right of the Government of the Republic. And the Government of the Republic will discuss these restrictions again tomorrow, just as the government did in your time. So in this sense, when it comes to resolving crises and situations, in fact, everyone has so far shown that these laws are working. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U159	Thank you, Mr President. When you answered my previous question, you avoided or ignored the other side of my question, where I pointed out that the Prime Minister was only a few minutes ago in this very building a few decades away from us. Isn't this clearly something to do with wanting? If I wanted to, I could make a deal, look at the calendar and look for the day. I think it is clearly a question of wanting that the Prime Minister does not want to come before Parliament to speak on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U160	Thank you. It is difficult to comment on the wishes or wishes of the Prime Minister. I can chair the hearing right now. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U161	Good manager! I'm not going to propose that we call the Prime Minister again, or anything like that. As Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, do you not feel that we should suddenly initiate an urgent amendment to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act? And a few points, for example, which could be there, that the last five questions you did here in the meantime, or the obligation to answer the speeches of the President of the Riigikogu within a certain period of time. Until that, drastically, until the Prime Minister is forced to do so, because we are, however, a parliamentary state. Do you agree that we should initiate this law on the amendment of the Home and Working Procedures Act as a matter of urgency so that this absurd situation can be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U162	Thanks for the thought. If you propose such an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and Home, I can only say my personal position: I am not in favour of coercion, of bringing someone here to the Riigikogu remote control. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. At the moment, there is a pathetic situation like the Estonian film classic "Here we are," where the female main character states that he will not come down. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I really hope that, as the Prime Minister is meeting with the Finnish Social Democrat Prime Minister Sanna Marin on Friday, he will probably hear about their experiences and receive information in the Finnish country. Perhaps it would be a good thing for the Scientific Council to discuss here on Thursday, for the [Prime Minister] to meet with the Prime Minister of Finland on Friday, and suddenly you would also pass on this request to come and share this [information] on Monday, how Finland has such a small infection rate and what is done there, also with the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U164	Thank you. I will pass on this information to him, but I am convinced that what is happening in the Riigikogu will reach the Prime Minister and that the debates we have here will be known to the Prime Minister. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U165	Thank you. I will then refresh the memory and remind the current coalition parties and their members of the attitude towards the Prime Minister's obligation to come before the Riigikogu when you were in opposition. I will read the speech of Kaja Kallas in the verbatim. "Thank you! I'd be more specific. In fact, it was the case that the Prime Minister announced that he wanted to come to the Riigikogu at 10 a.m. on Tuesday to talk about the COVID, on which both the Social Democrats and the Reform Party suggested that he should come right now at 3 a.m. because he is free of self-insulation and nothing can be more important than dealing with the COVID now that we have 760 infected one day. " As Ernits said, there are more today. "What did the Prime Minister say? Why isn't he here today? Why do we have a draft referendum on the agenda and why are we not talking about the corona crisis?" Well, I am now asking why we have the draft media service bill and hate speech bill and so on on this agenda and why we are not talking about COVID. Why isn't the Prime Minister coming? After all, we saw in Question Time that the government does not have an effective model of action or the ability to cope with the crisis. We fully understand the refusal of the Prime Minister to come before us as unwillingness and fear to report, because there is nothing to account for. And if you are literally playing in the same gate as your party partner Prime Minister right now, the Riigikogu groups will be forced to act differently and take different steps so that the Prime Minister will finally report to us on this board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U166	Thank you for your opinion. I'm just saying, as a remark, that the draft laws you mentioned are not on our agenda today. As regards Kaja Kallas' earlier speeches here as a member of the Riigikogu, I am convinced that he will certainly remember these speeches himself. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U167	Thank you. You just said a little while ago that it would be difficult for you to comment on the wishes and wishes of the Prime Minister. True, you don't have to. I have already asked you this today, and it is becoming more and more clear that we are actually sitting here for one very simple reason: the Prime Minister does not want to come here before us. The question is, what are we trying to find out here, among other things, why doesn't he want to? But I would also like to come back to your previous behavior, which Kalle Grünthal did very impress, but did point out. Before you said in your kind of answer here, well, let's finish this thing, because we have six items on the agenda today. Do you really think we don't know that? I would like to remind you that today, on Wednesday, we have the opportunity to hold a long sitting and we can sit here until the beginning of tomorrow's sitting and discuss these six items on the agenda. We know that too. And as far as procedural questions are concerned, of course you can do so, that right you have indeed, according to the law of the house and the rules of procedure, but I strongly recommend not to do so. Because otherwise, my colleague's impression of your role and your behaviour might come true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U168	Thank you! As you can see, we have continued with questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U169	Dear Vice-Chairman, You have pointed out on several occasions today that Parliament does not seem to have any coercive mechanism with which to physically bring the Prime Minister to appear before the Riigikogu. Then I ask you about an analogous situation: what would be the procedure if, for example, the Prime Minister did not show up for Question Time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U170	Thank you. In that case, the Prime Minister's first replacement would have an briefing instead of the Prime Minister, and if there were such an emergency, the people who are here would answer instead of the Prime Minister. It should be something absolutely extraordinary then that the Prime Minister cannot come. But the usual procedure is also designed to replace the Prime Minister. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U171	Thank you, Mr President. You are personally also a member of the Supreme Body of the Riigikogu, the Board of the Riigikogu. As a member of your Riigikogu management board, do you feel disturbed that the Prime Minister essentially ignores Parliament's wishes, ignores Parliament? Do you feel disturbed as a member of the Board of the Riigikogu, or do you think this is a perfectly normal behaviour?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U172	Thank you. I would like to proceed with the sitting of the Riigikogu, because this set of rules that the Prime Minister comes before us has been repeated here. And it is my task here today to chair today's sitting. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U173	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. I am based on § 74 of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which regulates the resolution of protests and questions regarding the procedure for conducting the sitting. Its first paragraph states that if a member of the Riigikogu finds that the rules governing the conduct of a sitting are violated, he may protest to the President of the sitting. That is what I did because I found that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, your position is that you only take five more questions to answer the rules of procedure and that no more can be done, [is not correct]. I, of course, got very emotional, and indeed, I interpreted your behavior as dictatorial. Then you later explained that you still have that right. But I read from the fourth paragraph of the same paragraph that the President of the sitting will settle the protest or answer the question without delay. I cannot in any way find any legal justification for having that right. I would be ready to apologize immediately if you would now refer specifically to this rule with the precision of paragraph, point or paragraph. Then it would be clear whether or not you have the right to limit the number of protests during the hearing. And when I'm lost, I apologize to you for the expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U174	Thank you. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu must be read as a whole. The right of the President of a sitting of the Riigikogu to exhaust one or one of the subjects is given in § 72 (2). Mr. Ruuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U175	I'm looking at your answer to my last question. In a situation where the Prime Minister has clearly demonstrated the lack of interest to come to the Riigikogu to discuss the corona crisis, should his deputy come here? When will you contact his deputy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U176	Thank you. No, that's not a correct interpretation. The Prime Minister must come when a request has been made to the Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister can decide whether or not he will come. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U177	Thank you. I, too, cannot stop here in a situation where we cannot solve this issue in any way. I would point out that when you answer our questions, you always contradict yourself. I now specifically ask you: what must we do to get the Prime Minister here to tell us about the situation? Are we talking about the rules or the Prime Minister's wishes? Once you say one thing about why he doesn't come, and then you talk about the Prime Minister's wish whether he's coming or not. So what are we talking about? We've got these things all messed up because of your answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U178	Our rulebook is based on the fact that the Prime Minister's statement depends on when the Prime Minister comes before us, perhaps on his wish. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U179	Thank you. Yes, this established situation is, of course, very, very worrying. I have a proposal to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that you may contact the Head of the Prime Minister's Office. I'll look at the government's website there, and there's his duties include advising the Prime Minister and supporting him. Let's try to approach the Prime Minister with a wingmaneuver. Perhaps the office manager can tell us when the Prime Minister could come and start communicating with members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U180	Thank you. I can assure you that the request has reached the Prime Minister. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U181	Thank you. I'm listening to this talk, and I have a question. Can you perhaps tell us what these possibilities are so that Parliament can see the Prime Minister here in front of the Riigikogu discussing a very important issue, that is, solving the corona problem? Although he doesn't seem interested. What are the chances of making him take an interest in it and take an active interest in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U182	Thank you. One possibility was certainly today, when there was the Question Time, where the Prime Minister was present. And in other respects, the possibilities are presented in our Rules of Procedure, according to which it is possible to propose to the Prime Minister and then he can decide whether and when he will come. However, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, we have a agenda that needs to be dealt with today, and I have not understood that we could have added value in this debate right now. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U183	Thank you, Mr President. You made a point to me a few moments ago that the Rules of Procedure and work should be read as a whole, and you referred here to the fact that the President of the sitting has the right to interrupt these speeches. I say again that your interpretation method of applying this rule is irrelevant. And for the following reasons. This Article 72, which you referred to, lays down the powers of the President of the sitting to conduct the debate on the agenda. I would like to point out, Mr President, that there are no protests on the agenda. That's one. The first paragraph states: if the presentation, statement or question lasts longer than prescribed... Then these are the possibilities you've given us. I would like to point out that this is not a report, a speech or a question at this point, but a question of § 74, protests and questions concerning [the procedure] for conducting [the session], the fourth paragraph of which states that the President of the sitting will settle the protest or answer the question without delay. Therefore, you have no legitimate right to restrict the answer to the so-called protest questions. Therefore, if you have not yet found a better solution to limit procedural issues, some standard, then I take back the so-called initial apology that I previously submitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U184	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu also often deal with provisions that must be used as an analogy. In this case, § 72 (2) is also such a provision as the Chairman of the Riigikogu, the sitting Chairman of the Riigikogu, has used in this Chamber. You can recall, and I am sure my colleague in the field can assure you, that he has taken the opportunity here that we have ended the debate on issues at some point. I have really allowed everyone to ask the questions now, and I have also responded constructively to them. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U185	Thank you, Mr President. You answered my previous question that in the current situation the Prime Minister must come to the Riigikogu or he will have the opportunity to decide whether he will come here or not. Is that what he's decided to do, as far as you know? What is his decision? Or, if he has not yet decided, by what date will the Prime Minister make that decision, and when will we find out about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U186	Thank you. As I said, the decision of the Prime Minister has not yet been received by the Board of the Riigikogu. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U187	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I regret to admit that a member of the Riigikogu, a member of the Board of the Riigikogu, the vice-president of the Riigikogu, is literally laughing at the Riigikogu right now, ridiculing the members of the two political groups of the Riigikogu, actually the members of the three political groups, that I left out the socks! The desire to find out what the Board of the Riigikogu is planning in relation to the obstructionism that the Prime Minister is doing, ignoring the wishes of the opposition groups of the Riigikogu that he should report to us on the COVID crisis. I am going to expand the subject with this: if the current government and the current Prime Minister are acting in such a toothless, so sneaky, shrub-guarded manner in this crisis, what kind of leadership and effective action can we expect from this Prime Minister and his government in the event of a really devastating crisis, whether it be a war or a natural disaster or something that really shocks society and the state as a whole, unexpectedly and on a large scale? So it is my very deep and urgent request to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu not to roll the ball and bounce it back and forth here, but to say specifically whether, as a member of the board, you are categorically in the belief that the chair is right and obliged to find out quickly about the matter currently being discussed with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U188	Thank you. The Bureau shall have the right and obligation to forward the request sent to the Prime Minister without delay. That's what they did. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U189	Thank you, Mr President. On the one hand, you are a member of the Board of the Riigikogu and, on the other, a member of the Board of the Reform Party, a party partner of the Prime Minister. What efforts have you personally made to bring the Prime Minister to this House? Have you had discussions with him on this matter since Monday and what he has answered you? Have you also made personal efforts to bring the Prime Minister to this House to speak about the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U190	Thank you for your question. At the beginning of the meeting, I said that at yesterday's Bureau meeting, we agreed that I would talk to the Prime Minister today. I did, and the Prime Minister promised to speak to the Chairman of the Riigikogu. Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U191	Yeah, thanks! I would actually like to congratulate you and congratulate you at the end of the day. I would like to congratulate you and congratulate you for sitting on the remote like a noble knight. So selflessly you have thrown the dzot in the defense of a weak and helpless woman. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U192	I thank you for those recognizable words. I will continue to try to direct the sitting of the Riigikogu at my best discretion and in the manner prescribed by the law. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U193	Thank you. I understand from your previous answers that although the Prime Minister is obliged to decide whether or not he will come to the Riigikogu to speak about the corona crisis, so far he has not made that decision, or at least the Chancellery of the Riigikogu is not aware of it. Please tell me how long it should be for the period during which he refuses to make a decision, that you would also admit that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U194	Thank you. I very much hope that we do not have to quote here the law on replying to statements and letters. I don't think that's appropriate in this case. The communication and debate between Parliament and the Prime Minister should not be framed by the provisions of the law to which I referred. It's the Half-Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The situation is complicated, we are in stagnation in many ways. I'm sorry you've been acting kind of cold, bureaucratic, that I've sent a note and that's it. But, in my opinion, since you represent Parliament in your dealings with the government, not just your own party, you could use your persuasion and authority to resolve this complex situation, which will not tend to be resolved if this disregard of Parliament continues. I would suggest that you put your very long parliamentary experience into play and convince the rather green Prime Minister that it is in the interest of Parliament's reputation as well as its reputation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U196	Thanks for the recommendation, I'll take that into account. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U197	Good manager! Actually, it's been an hour, the Minister of Justice is sitting quietly in the corner, and there's something I'd like to say. But it's like going positive. Since you're the party companion of the Prime Minister, I suggest you take your time off for five minutes or ten minutes, and if you call the Prime Minister or send a message, I'm sure he'll answer you. He'll finally fix it. He'll tell you when he'll be here. It's as simple as that. Henn Põllea's speech may not be answered, but yours could be answered. Take a break, please, and call him right now!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U198	Thanks for the offer. The Prime Minister may not answer my call either. But yesterday on the board, we agreed on how we will move forward today, and the Prime Minister promised that he would speak to the President of the Riigikogu. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U199	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. You mentioned that as if I had used such practice as the Chairman of the Riigikogu to stop answering procedural questions. According to my memory, I've never done it. I've always answered to the end as many questions as I have. You can check it out, of course, but as far as I know, I've never used this practice. It was just a reply in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U200	Thank you, good Henn! We can certainly go over the minutes more closely with each other in the Bureau and, if necessary, review the minutes, but that is not important at the moment. Thanks for that line. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U201	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On Monday, we approved the agenda of this working week in the Riigikogu and, in my opinion, we found in a consensus that, according to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Act, it is possible to add to the agenda of the working week without any political group having the right to veto, with the Prime Minister's political statement before the Riigikogu. In the moment, we have not received a negative or a positive response from the Prime Minister on this matter. It's quiet. The dialogue has been paused between Parliament and the government. My proposal is this: on the basis of § 155 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, the President of the sitting could take a break and, on the basis of the provision I have referred to it, make a decision to add to the agenda tomorrow with an item on the agenda, which is a presentation by the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister does not want to take advantage of this opportunity, we have reached a common position, as you have said, and I fully agree with you that Parliament will not be able to use any kind of coercion, then this debate on the agenda will fade in plenary tomorrow. These would be my specific proposals based on a meaningful interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Act. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U202	Thank you, Mr Reinsalu. However, I must also draw your attention to § 155 (2), which precedes paragraph 3. As a trained lawyer, I'm sure you can read it too. It says that an official wishing to make a statement, report or review will submit an application to the management board of the Riigikogu, indicating, among other things, when he or she wishes to come. Mr. Reinsalu, you still have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U203	Yeah. But we do have a situation where we do not have a hunt or a no, but a reign, well, I say, a rather embarrassing silence. My question is actually this, and it is not even rhetorical, but rather sentimental: what is there to fear about the Estonian Parliament? What's there to be afraid of? On the contrary, we should build a bridge, a bridge of trust in this crisis now and find solutions. We know that Parliament is also an internal two-way, opposition-coalition double, that is a two-way between Parliament and the government. If the situation is such that there is silence, then we must also interpret the Home and Working Procedures Act in a purposeful way. And this purposeful interpretation is based on this constitutional finding that the Riigikogu is the legislator and the representative of the people in the parliamentary republic, so the representative of the people must have the opportunity to call for it. I think that the right way is for the Prime Minister not to define whether he wants or does not and, if so, when to come before Parliament, to propose the specific format that we would actually expect the Prime Minister at the moment. If I also understood [right] your statement that you are not personally opposed to the Prime Minister making this political statement before Parliament, you did not call into question the reasonableness and legitimacy of this proposal, would it not be reasonable for us in this Parliament to identify the time when we would like to see the Prime Minister in Parliament and clearly communicate it through a legal decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U204	Thank you. I'll take that as a rhetorical remark, as you said. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U205	Thank you! Would it not be possible for us to invite someone from the government who is more competent and who also adopts, say, a decision to speak before Parliament? I understand our Prime Minister wanted to be Prime Minister, but he didn't know there was a responsibility. As a member of the board, you should know what his abilities really are. Right now, we're just going to spin around in one place to see if the Prime Minister... [[It's not clear, the connection's breaking.]] Who is next to him who can take this decision, come to the Riigikogu and provide us with the data we want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U206	Thank you, Mr. Kruusimäe! You will, of course, have the opportunity to invite other ministers to Parliament, both the Commission and the large Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, with this we have... Please, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U207	I'm just marking that once again and again and I don't know how many times we're in a situation where we have to admit that the Prime Minister doesn't want to come here. I do not know, I would perhaps also propose here to our investigative press that they make headlines, that the Prime Minister does not wish to come before Parliament, that the Prime Minister ignores Parliament, and that they begin to examine why he acts like this and why he does so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U208	I believe the media are watching the broadcast. They got your message. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U209	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. We have realised that the Prime Minister is not coming, and the motivation or reason why he is not coming may be an escapism, but it cannot be ruled out simply the ordinary human indiscretion that usually gives a person a home, but we cannot rule out that today's Prime Minister does not have it. As far as I know, there's a protocol department at Stenbock's house. Perhaps it would be wise, under the direction of the Riigikogu, to address the protocol department of the Prime Minister's office. Perhaps it could explain to the Prime Minister that the situation obliges him to do some things, even if it is deeply reluctant.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U210	Thank you for your thoughts. I believe that the Prime Minister perceives the need for a debate between Parliament and the Government, which he also expressed in Question Time. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U211	Thank you! I am not expressing my personal wish here, but it is still my wish that we should be able to move on from this point of view. I may have mistakenly asked if there was anyone in the Reform Party, but I wonder if it would be possible to invite someone from the Central Party from this government, because these people are already tempered with government responsibility. A good vice-chairman, knowing that your government is weak, who would you recommend to Parliament, who would come to the Prime Minister's duties and play this role in front of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U212	Thank you, Mr. Kruusimäe! As I said, you will be able to make the decision that you want to see before Parliament or the Commission. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U213	Good manager! We've been having problems with women lately. A woman came into this hall with a sweatshirt. The other woman somehow stays away from here. Wouldn't it be possible, of course, in the Home and Working Procedures Act, to resolve this situation as well as to call, because perhaps the telephone of a partymate, a member of the board, is not accepted to invite a good colleague, Siim Kallas? He has good manners, after all, and he could represent his daughter here and save this situation. And he's definitely not coming in here with a sweatshirt. There's something we can do to get out of this embarrassing situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U214	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. I don't have a problem with women. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U215	Thank you. I would like if you had this opportunity, maybe you could tell the Prime Minister if he hasn't figured out himself that all this toiletry here is also being watched by young people and watching children who are still our future. When we talk about examples here, what message does the Prime Minister's behaviour now give to our future generation? Is it the kind of message that I can really want something, and when I've got it, I can actually put my foot over my knee and tell you that I don't care that I don't have to take that responsibility, as long as it's just desire, desire and will, but there's nothing to follow from there? Maybe that's the principle of setting an example if nothing else motivates a good Prime Minister. Perhaps this model for youth could be an example, for he has always spoken very strongly for young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U216	Thank you. Surely the Prime Minister also bears the responsibility to set an example. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U217	Thank you, good vice chairman. I don't understand why you think I'm just expressing my personal desire to get out of this situation. Perhaps there is no tension, and this is a deliberate stretch of the Reform Party, to see if we can survive two weeks without the Prime Minister coming. My question is to you as Vice-Chairman. In this situation, if you were not perhaps a member of the Prime Minister's Party and, with their help, the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, would it be possible for the Riigikogu to invite the next minister from another political party? Because my constituents are actually waiting for answers to the crisis in COVID-19.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U218	Thank you. I repeat once again that both you and the Group have the right to invite ministers here. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U219	Thank you, Mr President. You and your party have talked about Estonia's good reputation in the world. Yesterday, such a bad story happened, you said that the entire diplomatic corps was watching what was happening in this Chamber, when under discussion there was exactly the same question as today, perhaps the possible arrival of our Prime Minister in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. You basically, in my opinion, blocked it all away instead of taking a little break and getting direct contact with the Prime Minister. And this whole scandal was practically seen by the whole world, and it's being carried out in its own media. That you didn't want to do this, you confirmed yesterday that you haven't contacted the Prime Minister in 24 hours. Perhaps today it is time to stop this damage to Estonia's reputation, because this, I believe, is already being watched with quite an interest, what will happen when this Prime Minister shows up. This is no longer about damaging the image of the Republic of Estonia; now you are actually damaging the Reform Party, its ability to manage the state at all. I have a real request for you, Mr. Chairman. Let's forget about the word exchange that's been going on here. Please take a break of 15 or 10 minutes. Let's get out of this jam, no matter what Kaja Kallas does, whether he takes the phone or doesn't take it, pass on that information. If he picks up, make a deal and give me that information. Please take this 10 minutes break!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U220	Thank you for this proposal. I do, however, consider it reasonable to proceed with the hearing. The Prime Minister was here in briefing, you were able to ask when and how he would respond to your questions. I see that at 3.03 p.m., all members of the Riigikogu have now had an overview of developments in COVID-19, including during the last 24 hours. Raimond Kaljulaid, I wanted to clarify whether you have a procedural [question] or if you have a speech now [registered] which one you want. Maybe you can adjust your remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U221	A procedural question, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U222	How procedural, please, Raimond Kaljulaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U223	Yes, indeed, I very much apologise to the President of the sitting. I am the first member of the Riigikogu, this law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu is a thick book and maybe I have not understood all things correctly yet. Today we are in a situation where we have about half a hundred people in the country in hospital care and some 50,000 people have lost their jobs. And I see that the same two political parties, the Fatherland and the EKRE, who, during the previous government, wasted the time of the Riigikogu on a public poll, are now doing it again. I just wanted to ask whether, according to the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, it is possible to stop paying at least salary to those ambassadors in these two extreme rows by the time they spend the working hours and office hours of the Riigikogu here. I think that would be fair to the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U224	Thank you. It is not possible to stop paying the salary, but I could put the large Chamber to the vote as the chairman of the sitting, pursuant to § 72 (2), on whether we will conclude this debate. But I have been of the opinion that right now, we could proceed quickly to the end of these questions and then we could go to the hearing. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U225	Thank you! This procedural debate, which at this point is that can we do our will in such a way that we may be able to sign up for the Prime Minister to come somewhere next week, then I am obliged to announce as the first district elected ambassador that I personally will no longer expect the Prime Minister to come here. I'm saying I have a TV, I have a radio, I have a radio, I'm getting all that information from there, so he doesn't have to come because of me. If anyone else in there really needs him, I'm gonna say, "Get yourself a TV." It's a good tool.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U226	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U227	Thank you, Mr President. If I understood correctly now, you announced a moment ago that all members of the Riigikogu had received a message about the condition of COVID. Does this mean, in your opinion, that if there is martial law, we will receive a message from the Prime Minister that enemy forces have reached Tartu, enemy troops have reached Paide? I don't understand the logic you've given me right now. When there is a crisis situation, immediate communication is needed to answer all [questions]. I have another request for you, good Hanno Pevkur! Please take this 10 minutes break, come out of this thing as a man of honor, give a concrete answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U228	Thank you. It was additional information to the members of the Riigikogu that 15.03 has arrived for us with additional information. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U229	Thank you. Well, the previous government also sent out all kinds of information and sat twice a week at exactly coronal conferences with scientists and other items. So this isn't an explanation or an excuse. I see here, however, very clearly right now this typical reform party's arrogance, this arrogance and impertinence: we do what we want, and you do not disturb us. This has now become purely a struggle, and unfortunately, as I said in one of the speeches, the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu is contributing to the mockery of the Riigikogu. This is not acceptable! Please step out of the shoes of the Reform Party now, put on the hat of the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and stand impartially for the rights and duties of the Riigikogu as a representative of the people, which it has in relation to its communication with the Head of Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U230	Thank you. There was an opinion to be made, no answer needed. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U231	Thank you. You suggested earlier that it would be possible to stop taking procedural questions through the vote in the large Chamber. Now my question is: in this case, how is it possible to ask procedural questions about the same vote during this vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U232	Thank you. Procedural issues must be resolved by the President immediately. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U233	Thank you very much. My question stems from your previous comment that 15.03 has come to all Members [the message]. I am very sorry that not all Members have this letter. The previous letter from yesterday, for example, came from the Social Democrats only to Indrek Saare and Mr Odines, who then sent us this letter. George Ratas sent it all to 101. We have a link, look at this list of recipients. Suddenly it should be asked that Indrek Saar should not pass it on to members of his group. He will certainly do so, but it is easier to put 101 members of the Riigikogu in one e-mail and it will come to everyone regardless of when Indrek discovers that a message has come to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U234	Thank you for that comment. I'm sure I'll pass it on to the State Chancellery, which is a very sensible proposal. From here I do not see my e-mail address either, but I have therefore been added to one list where, I assumed, all members of the Riigikogu are. But I'm gonna pass on that note right now. Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U235	Thank you. I am also surprised that, in reality, Sven Sester here next to Urmas Reitelmann, Anti Poolamets and I have not received any letter. I understand that when you brought this letter to the game, it is like a response to these procedural protests by Members. It is therefore vital to know the content of this letter. The opposition groups have asked the Prime Minister for an overview of the situation with regard to the spread of the virus and the planned steps of the government. My question is: is this letter, which has been made available to you, an answer, a written Prime Minister's position on these matters in a political statement, a text, and through what list will these letters be forwarded to Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U236	Thank you. As I said in reply to the previous question, I will specify that all the members of the Riigikogu will receive it: this is a review of the situation, as you yourself did as a minister of the previous government. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U237	Yeah. Good manager! This vaudeville is getting so full of shit. But to still be positive and stop this shit, let's say, if you, as a modest person, don't want to call the Prime Minister, interrupt him, then we have another person in the hall. There's a respected minister of justice in the corner. Maybe he'd call me, well, ladies alone. He's been sitting quietly for an hour and a half and we can work this out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U238	Thank you for this proposal. The Minister of Justice heard that. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to the proposal for a remote sitting, made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. We shall prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the proposal to the vote before you for the period from 22 to 25. February Sessions of the Riigikogu will take the form of a remote sitting. Whoever supports this proposal, please send a signal through the remote control and vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U239	63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 19 against and 1 abstention. The Riigikogu decided that next week's plenary sessions will take the form of a remote sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U240	Today's item No 1 is the draft Act 291 amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. At first reading, the Government's presentation will be made by Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U241	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The objective of the draft 291 is to make changes to the bailiffs system, making it more efficient and viable, and to improve the various bottlenecks in enforcement procedures. Let me introduce you to these changes in detail. Firstly, the State will pay the bailiff a monthly fee for the collection of maintenance. Under the current rules, the bailiff is paid 292 euros once when the enforcement proceedings are initiated, but the problems associated with the payment of maintenance are often long-term and permanent. The worst case may be an 18-year-old period. Of course, this means that it is a loss-making activity for the filler. At the same time, however, it is vital for society and the recipients of the livelihood to be paid for. That is why the State will pay up to EUR 100 per enforcement case per calendar year. The total estimated cost is half a million euros. The second amendment is as follows: The holder of a public claim may choose the bailiff himself in the future, but he shall not have to choose. It is possible to stick to the current system where claims are randomly distributed through the system managed by the Law Enforcement Tribunals and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators. The expectation is that this will motivate bailiffs, as it is expected that a bailiff who has been more successful will be elected in the future. On the basis of the third amendment, the rate of the bailiff's remuneration shall be increased in cases where the actual cost of the operation is clearly higher than the fee. As a new option, thus motivating the debtor, the basic fee for the bailiff would be 50% of the rate if the debtor fulfilled the entire claim on the basis of a payment schedule and the payment schedule was concluded within the time limit for voluntary execution of the claim. Amendment four. The transfer of the enforcement order to another bailiff will be easier and the claimant will no longer have to pay for it. If the enforcement case has been processed for at least three years, the claimant may transfer it to another bailiff. The current period is four years. Amendment five. A new function of the bailiff will be established: the establishment of an enforceable profile of the debtor. With this profile, the bailiff can provide the claimant with a complete overview of the enforcement proceedings initiated against the debtor and the financial situation of the debtor, which in turn allows the claimant to assess whether it is appropriate to initiate the enforcement proceedings. The fee for compiling this profile is 15 euros and the charger is the collector. Sixthly, the rules on enforcement by the Tax and Customs Board and bailiffs are harmonised, for example in the case of mergers, distribution of results and other forms of forced execution. The proposed amendments should improve the recovery of financial claims, i.e. the efficiency and sustainability of freelance bailiffs will increase. A more sustainable office also harmonises the practice of bailiffs. The rights and interests of debtors and collectors are better guaranteed. A reduction in the administrative burden on the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice is expected. Better recovery of maintenance claims and fairer remuneration of bailiffs are certainly one consequence. The draft amends four laws in total. The Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Law on bailiffs are major changes, the Tax Administration Act and the Code of Civil Procedure are "linked to previous amendments'. It is planned that the draft will enter into force as a general rule, with the exception of the provisions relating to the payment by the State of bailiffs' fees for the recovery of child maintenance, which would enter into force on 1 January 2023. The reason is that information systems and other preparations must be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U242	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Heljo Pikhof is starting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U243	Thank you. Dear Minister, The bill amends the bailiff's remuneration provisions, as you said. The basic fee of a bailiff shall be reduced to 50% of the rate of remuneration if the debtor complies with the entire claim on the basis of a payment schedule and the payment schedule is concluded within the time limit for voluntary execution of the claim. My question is: what is the bailiff's fee, what is it made up of, and on what basis is it calculated? Let us say, for example, that the requirement is EUR 4000. What's the bailiff's fee to count 50% of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U244	Okay. I have to admit, since I am a little ignorant in this area, perhaps I will not come into contact with this matter, I cannot say it by heart and, unfortunately, will not quickly find an answer to that question either. Whoa, whoa, whoa! [[Browse papers.]] No, that wasn't it. Yeah. I'm sorry, I don't know how to answer you right now, but I'll send you an answer or I'll have it sent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U245	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U246	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I think it's a good bill. There are certainly a number of points here that will also allow a livelihood to reach more quickly from debtors to those who actually need it every day to grow. I know that this question does not actually directly concern this bill, but I am satisfied with a yes or no response, because a maintenance requirement and a livelihood have already been introduced here. The previous government also started with regard to the dependence of the maintenance rate on wages. Is this going on? Are you working on it, have you had time to deal with it yet? You've had very little to do. But I just have to say yes or no. A lot of people are waiting for it to go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U247	Thanks for asking. Opinions have been gathered on this draft, these opinions are currently being analysed and the desire to find an adequate solution to this problem is being addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U248	Heljo Pikhof, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U249	Thank you. Dear Minister, One more thing that might need to be clarified. Half a million may be granted to bailiffs for the execution of additional obligations for the recovery of a livelihood for more than one year. Does this remuneration paid by the State to the bailiff be recovered from the debtor after that, or will it be borne by the State?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U250	I hope I'm not mistaken, but I figured this thing out that it's gonna stay in post-state or, in short, collect the debtor later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U251	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs is made by Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 January, including the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we discussed the draft we are talking about, i.e. draft 291, and prepared it for the first reading. Perhaps briefly, what the Minister then told us in the Commission. I'm going to read some of the minutes to give you a more accurate overview. Of course, our committee members could also ask all the questions. Minister Raivo Aeg said that the draft was intended to create the preconditions for increasing the efficiency and sustainability of the system of bailiffs with major difficulties. One of the important changes to the draft is that the State will pay the bailiff a fee for the monthly collection of maintenance. Recovery of the monthly current maintenance is clearly a loss-making activity for the bailiff, since the bailiff can charge a fee once for a recovery procedure that lasts mostly for years, EUR 292 at the time of the opening of the enforcement proceedings. According to the Minister, the initial analysis shows that this amount is sufficient to finance only the costs of the first year of enforcement proceedings. The proposal is for the state to finance bailiffs in the execution of maintenance claims for up to EUR 100 per calendar year. The indicative cost per year would be half a million euros. He also stressed that the draft amends the current model for the distribution of claims by a public authority in such a way that, like the private claimant, the holder of a public claim can choose the bailiff himself. At the same time, the current possibility of sharing requirements through a centralised sharing solution remains. The draft amends the provisions of the bailiff's remuneration in order to comply with the changes that have taken place in recent years and to make it possible to compensate the bailiff for the costs incurred in the course of the enforcement proceedings. The bill makes it cheaper and easier for the recoverer to transfer the enforcement case to another bailiff and does not have to pay any fees for it. In the future, the defendant's enforcement proceedings may be handed over to another bailiff if the enforcement proceedings have been pending for at least three years. As the Minister said here today, and the previous Minister also emphasised, the draft introduces a new act of the bailiff, which is to create an executive profile for the debtor. The Agency's action is intended to assist the recoverer in assessing the prospects for recovery. The charge shall be paid by the collector for the operation of the Office and shall be EUR 15. Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Department of Justice Administration Policy, said that the completion of the draft had taken more than two years and in-depth discussions with stakeholders had taken place. In order to strengthen the system, among other things, the Supreme Court has pointed out that [indicating] that in the case of some acts which are clearly of a more social nature, the state should support. The basic fees of bailiffs have been significantly reduced a few years ago and a package of support for monthly maintenance [in the case of recovery] could be the way in which the state supports in the case of more sensitive issues. The system would also be supported by the free marketisation of public authorities' claims and the simplification of the transfer of enforcement. A good colleague, Urve Tiidus, asked whether there was an analysis of how much the half million euro to be made available to improve the collection of maintenance money would improve the receipt of maintenance money in total or in percent. Gunnar Vaikmaa replied that if the state supports enforcement proceedings in this way, the bailiffs will be able to use the tools provided to them more efficiently. He said no one knows the exact numbers. A good colleague, Toomas Kivimägi, said that there was talk about measures whereby bailiffs would receive additional remuneration if the actual costs of the operation were higher. He asked whether the cost would be borne by the debtor or whether it would be taken care of by the so-called state. Gunnar Vaikmaa replied that state support will only be available if there is no receipt and the bailiff is not paid. Heljo Pikhof asked how those bailiffs who do their work ineffectively would be affected. Mr Vaikmaa replied that the supervision of the Ministry of Justice was very competent in this matter. For example, if the bailiff refused to initiate enforcement proceedings, although the law does not provide such a basis, the Ministry of Justice can issue injunctions. The bailiffs have also been punished and punished for more serious violations. If this amount is found in the state budget to support enforcement proceedings, the Ministry of Justice will also monitor what is being done for this money. Raivo Time said that if the bailiff commits violations, appropriate measures can be taken under supervision. The draft proposes the possibility that after three years it will be possible to replace the bailiff if the bailiff is not satisfied with the work. Raivo Time said that in the future, for example, a threshold for bailiffs could be considered. He found that there were too many bailiffs because the number of executions had decreased considerably. Heljo Pikhof asked whether the draft would also resolve the problem that bailiffs would find it difficult to contact the debtor. Mr Vaikmaa replied that the draft had not provided any specific tools for this and that the delivery package had not been supplemented. There have been many discussions on this subject, but the best solution is still under way. This draft could at least motivate the debtor to cooperate. Toomas Kivimägi asked whether the state budget included an additional cost of half a million euros. Gunnar Vaikmaa replied that the Ministry of Justice had requested funds and the application was addressed by 2023. What is important in this bill? As Minister Maris Lauri said, just as the holder of a private claim may choose the bailiff himself. The bill also amends the provisions on bailiff remuneration. In my opinion, it is very important that the basic fee for bailiffs is reduced to 50% of the rate of remuneration if the debtor complies with the entire claim on the basis of a payment schedule and the payment schedule is made within the time limit for voluntary execution of the claim. Speaking of the bailiff's basic remuneration, I must admit that this is somewhat unclear in the law and that is why I asked the Minister this question. Now for the establishment of the debtor's enforcement profile. It is intended to assist the recoverers in assessing the prospects of the recovery. In fact, recoveries are often made and do not pay anything to the person who collects them. Perhaps in the future, the claimant will see that there is no prospect and he will not be dealing with the matter or the debtor. It will also know whether, for example, enforcement proceedings have been initiated against the debtor, [information] about the debtor's financial situation, etc. One more thing is very important: the distribution of claims by a public authority. A person who demands a living, i.e. a vigilante himself, is able to turn to one or another bailiff. If he doesn't think it's right or he doesn't know it, then he trusts [and goes] as he does on the other line, then he doesn't have to be a bailiff anymore. Let's just say that for the time being, claims are distributed at random through the Chamber and between all bailiffs in the area of work. Okay. However, it is also important to regulate the delivery of notices of procedures, which are currently not exactly regulated. It's very important to be able to hand over to another bailiff. I fully agree with the Minister, we have 40 bailiffs and, as I said, it is too much, not everyone works effectively. It is very important that bailiffs are motivated by money so that the bailiffs can claim a living. That's all for short. If there are any questions, I'm willing to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U253	There are no questions. Thanks for the report. Before we go to the proposal of the lead committee, indeed, perhaps the political groups have a desire to negotiate on this matter. There's no wish. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 291. By the deadline for submitting amendments, I will set 1 March at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U254	Today's second item is the amendment of the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related to the draft law amending other laws, number 315. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, this will be presented by Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U255	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will present to you a draft aimed at facilitating the simplified termination of enforcement proceedings due to the expiry of civil execution. In April 2011, an amendment to the General Part of the Civil Code Act entered into force, shortening the general expiry date from 30 to 10 years. As a result, in April this year, very many, estimated tens of thousands of private claims will expire. It may be expected that many will demand the closure of enforcement proceedings. The law in force requires the debtor to apply to the courts to initiate the winding-up procedure. The aim of the draft is to make it easier to close the enforcement procedure. More specifically, in the event of an expiry, the debtor can first appeal to the bailiff once the legal period of limitation has expired. In other words, if 10 years have passed and the claimant does not object, the bailiff will be able to close the enforcement proceedings due to the expiry of enforcement. If these two conditions, the legal limitation period and the consent of the claimant are not fulfilled, the debtor can apply to the court and request the termination of the claim due to expiry. An application for the closure of enforcement proceedings following the expiry of enforcement proceedings shall be examined by the court in the future in an action without an action. It is easier and less burdensome for a person, allowing the court to deal with matters more flexibly. The state fee would be EUR 30, currently EUR 300 in the action. However, if the debtor has previously applied to the bailiff but, for some reason, his application has not been accepted, the state fee is not due. The provisions of the bailiff's remuneration are also amended. The costs of the proceedings must be borne by the debtors. In order to prevent the bailiff from losing his payment due as a result of the expiry of enforcement proceedings, he may, if the enforcement proceedings are closed, charge the debtor half of the basic fee for the proceedings, calculated on the outstanding amount. The bill specifies the grounds for interruption and suspension of the enforcement of the claim resulting from the enforceable title. For example, it is not possible to conduct enforcement proceedings during litigation, but if the litigation is long, the enforcement proceedings may expire. In total, this draft amends seven laws relating to various aspects of this amendment: the Code of Enforcement Procedure, the Law on bailiffs, the Law on State Fees, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on the Implementation of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure, the Law on the General Part of the Civil Code and the Law on the Implementation of the Law of Obligations Act, the Law on the General Part of the Civil Code and the Law on Private International Law. The draft envisaged its entry into force on 1 March. Given the importance of this subject, I would be very pleased if the Riigikogu could deal with this draft as soon as possible, but of course this procedure must be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U256	Good Minister of Justice, no questions for you. Thank you! The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs is made by Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U257	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and related amendments to other laws was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 25 January. The bill was presented by the previous Minister of Justice, Raivo Aeg. Very briefly, I will speak once more about what he has told us. The proposed amendments are intended to facilitate the closure of enforcement proceedings in civil proceedings. These are, as we know, claims arising from a private law relationship. The amendments concern the rules governing the termination of enforcement proceedings in the Code of Enforcement Procedure, but also other laws relating thereto, such as the Law on bailiffs, the Law on state fees, the Code of Civil Procedure and another implementing law, which is the Act on the Implementation of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure. Some examples, too. Maybe I'll say it again. But what's gonna change? The bill amends the provisions of the bailiff's remuneration. The bailiff shall be provided with a new fee for the examination of the application for the closure of the enforcement proceedings following the expiry of the claim and for a fee of EUR 15. The text of the provisions of the General Part of the Civil Code Act will be regulated in order to ensure better legal clarity. This applies, for example, to § 157 and concerns the expiry of the requirement. There are still changes, as we have heard from the report by the Minister, Mrs Lauri. It is worth noting that this draft is the result of compromises and that there have been many discussions with stakeholders in the past. This was confirmed to the Commission by Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Office for Freedoms of the Justice Administration Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice. Vaike Murumets, Head of the Private Legal Service of the Legal Policy Department, explained to the Commission that although the draft contains amendments to the General Part of the Civil Code Act, the draft does not make any substantive changes. There was no long debate in the Commission on the draft. Members of the Commission wanted to know why the draft came to Parliament only in January. The Head of the Department of Private Law of the Ministry explained that last spring, when the draft was dealt with, the crisis caused by the COVID-19 disease was on the agenda and slowed down the process of dealing with the draft, there were also in-depth discussions with stakeholders and the finding of a compromise took place in a rather optimal time. The draft was thus approved by a representative of the Ministry. It was explained to the members of the Commission that the draft is not a situation where there is no legal solution at all. The question is whether the existing solution is optimal. The issue of the date of entry into force also arose, which is scheduled for 1 March in the draft. a. In view of the timetable, this date of entry into force is no longer appropriate or realistic, but the chairman of the committee, Karilaid, confirmed that this issue would be resolved during the procedure. Decisions were also made: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 16 February, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 22 February and to appoint Urve Tiidus as rapporteur. All the decisions were unanimous. These decisions were made by Jürgenson, Karilaid, Kingo, Kivimägi, Kruusimäe, Pikhof, Puustusmaa, Toomas and Tiidus. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U258	Good waitress, colleagues don't have any questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U259	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U260	Now we're negotiating. Do the factions want it? No, I don't. We have completed the first reading of draft 315 and will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 22 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U261	Today's third item is the amendment of the Prisons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws (transfer of the duties of the Detention House) by number 275. There's a third reading planned. I'm opening negotiations. The political groups have the opportunity to speak. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U262	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you. Here I am talking again about this amendment to the law, the bill that transfers the Tartu and Jõhvi detention house's tasks to local prisons. When this draft came to and was introduced to the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, I immediately raised a number of questions about the organisation of police work and, above all, about how effective the planned and the changes are and whether these changes will continue to ensure the operationality of the work of the criminal police. I also visited the Tartu Detention Centre, the police main building and the prison about Christmas, in particular, to examine some of the organisational changes already implemented. I listened to explanations and reasoning, hoping to dispel the scepticism that arose. All that I saw and heard did not, unfortunately, convince me in any way of the justification or goodness of these changes. On the contrary, I still find it completely incomprehensible why, for example, the police chief of Tartu agrees with all of this. He, too, gave his approval to this bill. It should also be known to everyone the fact that some ideas may look great in office silence, but in practice they are not good for anything. This is the situation with this bill. It's a bad bill, and it does nothing but weaken our criminal police and its capabilities. It is our duty and duty, as elected delegates of the people, to ensure that the laws adopted by the Riigikogu are of the highest quality possible. Quality not only verbally but also in their content, how they affect something or someone and what the consequences are. All of us rely on the police in a difficult situation, especially in the face of a crime. We want the complex and frustrating situation to be resolved as quickly and effectively as possible. By voting in favour of this draft, you are violating this hope, because the redistribution of tasks will result in a limp in the work of the criminal police and a limp in pre-trial procedures. This will not be the case only in Tartu or Jõhvi. Similar reorganisations are planned in all detention houses all over Estonia. It affects us all and, unfortunately, it affects us in a negative direction. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support this draft. At this point, I will knock on all your conscience, ladies and gentlemen, and I invite you to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U263	There's no more words. I would remind you that this is a vote requiring a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. Let's start preparing the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that this is a draft that requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. I am voting before you on the amendment of the Prisons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws by number 275. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U264	56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of adopting the draft act, 17 members of the Riigikogu opposed, and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U265	The fourth item is the draft law on chemicals initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws, number 296. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, it is to be introduced by Andres Sutt, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U266	Thank you, good manager. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft law amending the Chemical Act and other laws is to clarify the rules concerning the sale of chemical substances which may be used for the manufacture of an explosive device. The need for this draft arises, on the one hand, from the desire to ensure the free movement of goods within the internal market of the European Union, so that economic operators can continue to offer their products on different markets and on the basis of the same principles as possible. On the other hand, it is also important that attacks in several European capitals have been found to be caused by the use of freely available chemicals such as ammonium nitrate in fertilisers. This is not a whole new legal situation. For six years now, European requirements for the handling of explosives precursors have been in place under a separate regulation. The updated conditions must make life easier for businesses in the product supply chain. It is known that companies have a low level of awareness of the requirements for explosives precursors and have so far been insufficient. From now on, the product will have to move from factory to trader with explosive precursors in the form of a product safety data sheet. All of this contributes to fulfilling these obligations. Eighteen substances are considered as starting substances, such as sulphuric acid, nitromethane and acetone. However, there are considerably more products or mixtures where these substances are found, especially in household cleaning products. However, the restrictions do not go beyond what is strictly necessary, for example car batteries, although sulphuric acid is present in battery acid. Despite the low or lower terrorist threat in Estonia than in several other Member States of the European Union, we need to be able to advise and train entrepreneurs so that they can shape their sales process in a way that, in case of doubt, will make it possible to report suspicious transactions, product loss and theft. In such cases, contact the Police and Border Guard Board within 24 hours of detection. Since more and more such transactions are carried out via e-commerce, online traders also have exactly the same obligations. As regards the prevention of major-accident hazards, two amendments will be made in order to correctly complete the transposition of the so-called Seveso III Directive, which entered into force in 2015, in line with the European Commission's comments. One concerns the drawing up and updating of the documents necessary to assess the safety performance of dangerous businesses before any change of activity or new activity begins. The second is to clarify the public participation process by drawing up, or making substantial changes to, the emergency plan for companies at the highest risk, such as the production of chemicals. In addition, an amendment will be made to the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act and the Product Conformity Act, which will transfer from the Ministry's competence to the competence of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority implementing tasks, such as the administration of a register of business licences, which will be better suited to it by their nature. The draft is intended to enter into force as a general rule. I thank you for your attention and I hope that you will also support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U267	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U268	Good manager! Good minister! Now that this "Beirut" substance has been raised from the second category to the first, but the lower limit of danger for this second category is 500 tonnes for ammonium nitrate, that is my question. I couldn't find it anywhere in the papers. What if the degree is stronger, for the first category, this critical minimum mass? How many tons is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U269	It doesn't appear in the bill, but I can check it and specify it and send it to you in writing, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U270	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U272	Next, I call Peeter Ernitsa, member of the Environment Committee, as co-rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U273	Good President and few colleagues. This draft has been discussed a little in the Committee on the Environment. The first time was on Monday, January 18th, and the second on Tuesday, February 9. The first time was Erki Savisaar, the chairman of the committee, and the second time was no longer, the chairman was Yoko Alender. Members of the Commission have also changed. I don't know if I'm gonna read it. Back then were Yoko Alender, I, Heiki Kranich, Igor Kravtšenko, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Siim Pohlak, Üllar Saaremäe, Marko Storm. Now the company has changed because I, Heiki Kranich, Igor Kravtšenko and Jevgeni Ossinovski are the same [members], but Natalia Malleus, Andres Metsoja, Jüri Ratas and Timo Suslov are new. So that's technical stuff. I'm not going to read what the officer, the Industrial Safety Advisor Merike Ring said. But briefly, he said that the aim of the draft is to limit the availability of substances and mixtures to ordinary people, which could be used to make brawls, for the illicit manufacture of explosives. This deadline for transposing the EU regulation has passed, it was on 1 February. So we've been dragging around a little bit, but not too much. It was the same thing I asked the Minister. Really, this ammonium nitrate or this Beirut mixture that recently caused the wild booze in Beirut, the shock wave, etc., has now been moved from the second category to the first. But how much it has to be, unfortunately, I don't know. Background: there are thousands of tons of them here in Tallinn and in the immediate vicinity of Tallinn. Nothing more to say, everything went quickly and with relatively little interest in the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U274	Thank you, good waitress. Looks like you don't have any questions. The commission's proposal is a draft 296 first reading... How? Right! I almost forgot. Do the political groups want to negotiate? But I don't think that's what I want. So the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 296. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 March at 5.15 p.m. Thank you. We have finished addressing this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U275	Next is the first reading of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (repealing the Environmental Register Act) 292. Minister of the Environment Tõnis Möldri, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, including the repeal of the Environmental Register Act. The aim of the draft is to update the procedures for handling environmental information in databases. The new regime responds to how environmental information has actually been collected, including by distinguishing the information systems previously mentioned in the sub-information systems of the environmental register as independent databases. Instead of the environmental register, an environmental portal bringing together environmental data will be created and the Estonian nature information system EELIS and the mineral resource register will be established as independent databases, which have so far operated as a sub-information system for the environmental register. It repeals the Environmental Register Act, which entered into force in 2003 and has expired. The environmental portal created by the draft is a website that provides central access to environmental information stored in national databases and provides a comprehensive overview of the state of the environment, both spatially linked and other. The environmental portal does not mean creating an independent database, but an IT solution that displays different databases and connects them together. Perhaps the exchange of information would be easier, more accurate and unambiguous. The purpose of the Estonian Nature Information System, which is to be established as an independent database of the draft, is to systematically collect and ensure the availability of public information on environmental spatial objects, such as protected areas, protected species, flood areas and water bodies. All data on the Estonian Nature Information System will be made public in the form of open data on the new environmental portal. This IT development has already begun. The purpose of the second inventory of mineral resources established as an independent inventory, the list of deposits in the environmental register with its former name, is to collect and ensure the availability of geological information. The process of cleaning up environmental databases has already taken place over a long period of time. From the sub-information systems of the environmental register, an information system for environmental monitoring, an information system for environmental decisions and a database for scientific and recreational fisheries have already been established as separate databases. The draft also changes the scope of the drilling diary and the procedures for providing data. Improvements shall be made to the grounds which no longer require authorisation to influence the status and use of the ground [in the case of activities]. Namely, the data of the drilling diary, or established well or well, can be submitted directly to the environmental portal of the Estonian nature information system instead of being sent by e-mail. This will help to facilitate the work of officials, as well as the application for authorisation. The amendment reduces the administrative burden and workload for both local authorities and applicants for permits. This is in short all about redeploying or cleaning up data. I think it is a very important draft in this sense that it will help researchers, practitioners and students who wish to obtain good open data on the nature and environment of Estonia to get a more comprehensive picture. The law should enter into force from 1 January 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U277	Thank you. Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U278	Good manager! Good minister! It's a good initiative in itself. But if you look at the details, the devil is hiding in them, and there are quite a few devils. Let me ask you a few questions. This portal, which now comes, where you should have a few clicks on it all, is very uneven. For example, about the resources you were talking about, the deposits, it's been said that you might consider joining the portal. The growing forest is not there, the fish stocks, yes, but the professional fishing is separate. What else? The GMO thing maybe someday be connected. Why is there no unity and ambition in all of this? It's like a little bit of movement in the right direction, but there's no whole picture. The environment is whole, it doesn't matter, it's fish, GMOs, forests or deposits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U279	Thank you. Good questioner! I think, in this sense, your observation is correct, that we really are not going to redefine the entire database, that the forest and a few other things are going to be left out, which you have mentioned. We are gradually moving to a unified system, so that people can really get different data through this portal. I think of the databases that you have referred to, which are currently going to work on their own, or, for example, on some applications for permits and on the other side, which will now remain independent, then, of course, in the perspective of the future and in the long term, adding them to this, and harmonising the availability of data, is the goal which has actually already been taken a step towards. As I said in my speech, this process has not been the first stage; it is quite a number of steps in harmonising the system of databases, in clarifying our opening data. As I said, I think it is an important tool in this sense for workers in this field, but also for Estonian entrepreneurs and researchers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U280	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U281	Thank you. I'm going a little further. Once again, I praise the good thing, but there are more than many devils there. In fact, before reaching this portal, the rules of the game should be clearly set out, what must be presented there, what data, and what legal background. Officials, for example, at the Environmental Board, where they sit, and also at the municipality, go to the portal, climb there, and see if there is one, another or third. If there is no such data or if they are incomplete, these decisions will, in particular, be in the case of planning, when it comes only to planning, remain at a very skewed and unreliable level, which will allow us to protest later and trouble will be up to heaven. Why has there not been more work done on this draft and efforts to improve first and foremost what is the starting point? This chapter doesn't really exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U282	Thank you. It may also depend on the point of view. I see very clear progress in this respect and a substantial clarification of the accuracy of the data. If the databases are interconnected and the data flow is interactive, the data will be considerably more reliable. According to the old system, people had to manually insert them. Indeed, by manual input, there could be differences between data sets in different portals and databases. There's nothing to do, we're all people and we're all wrong. There could be mistakes. What you referred to in your question, yes, is problematic. If we move to a more coherent system, the process of entering data is more coherent, the process of processing data is more coherent, then, I think, we are also going in a much better direction in terms of errors, I think the error rate is going to be lower, because the system is more coherent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U283	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you! Now I'm asking for Peter Ernitsa, member of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U284	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a brief overview of this draft, which will have a much greater impact than the previous one, which I also briefly presented here. But once again, there was proceedings in the Committee on the Environment under the leadership of two Presidents. On Monday, January 11, Erki Savisaar led the Commission and now, Tuesday, February 9, Yoko Alender. I am not going to describe the exchange of members of the Commission, I described it earlier. At the first meeting, Rain Epler, the Minister for the Environment at the time, briefly said essentially the same thing as the current minister: how good the environmental portal is, the environmental register has been lost in time and the other technical solution has expired, and now it is time to move on to the right one. Erki Savisaar asked whether, in addition to the primary forms and reports, there would be an interface through which, for example, communities and businesses could process this data. Minister Epler said that if there are these interfaces, yes, but they don't exist now, they will be made. Kätlin Mandel said that the development of the EELIS would follow the requirements of open data. You can also make more different interfaces, but the important thing is that they do not exist yet, work is still ongoing. It was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 20 January (consensus), which should have been the case, but then the events came between, and the realisation of this consensus in the large Chamber was cancelled. It was proposed that the first reading be completed. The waitress should have been Erki Savisaar here instead of me. But then came the January 18th meeting. Then, in fact, the decision was exactly the same, that still on January 20th. But in the end, on 9 February, we decided in consensus that this [reading] will take place on 17 February and that I will report the review here. That was a brief summary of the long thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U285	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U286	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, You have this subject and you have asked the Minister questions in advance. Undoubtedly, these databases and registers are necessary, say, purely in terms of information, science, etc. But the second important question is: can you explain how this information is generated there, for example, on fish stocks? How often is this data updated, for example, on wild game? Is there any way to answer that? It may pass this bill a little bit, but it would be exciting to hear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U287	Thank you for your question. No, I won't. In fact, unlike many of our drafts, this has been described quite thoroughly and more or less in clear language. There's a total, if I remember correctly, 25 positions, all these fish, water bodies, surface water grips, etc. They're relatively different. The table also shows what should be and what is reflected in this new portal and what is somehow separate, be it forest, mineral resources or GMOs and these other things. Some things have been left hanging or in the EELIS archives. For example, hunters who hunt trophies and go to competitions with them are certainly not happy because they are now forgotten, all of this remains only in the EELIS archives. But fish stocks are valued differently. This varies between fish stocks and fishing. One is recreational fishing, the [data] is currently in another, a sub-quantity called TEA, and professional fishing is elsewhere. Their administration and compliance with these data are carried out at different locations. So there are more loose ends here than there are, there's nothing to tell. I would stress that there are 25 different positions in total, up to the radioactive waste dumps. Here is a fairly comprehensive overview of what they are and whether they qualify on the new portal. In itself, it would be good to click and see, put together fish, GMOs, radioactive waste, construction ban zones, etc. But there's still a very, very long way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U288	Thank you. No further questions. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 292. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments... But before I set the deadline, I would still like to hear the speeches of the representatives of the political groups. I'm opening negotiations. Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U289	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's a little bit more free, and I can answer Urve for a little while. In fact, this law was passed in 2003, it came into force then, and the minister was our good colleague in the Committee on the Environment, Heiki Kranich. At the time, there were 40 databases and they wanted to create a basic national register that would aggregate all these data. That's what they did. Looking back, this law had ambitions, in itself it was a good law, an environmental register law, but later the ministry officials were unable to realise the ambition of the law. This is what the National Audit Office has said, and this is what it has said now, when making the so-called new law. In fact, with this law, this kid from Heiki Kranich is being sent to the trash can. We're going to change seven or eight laws, but this Environmental Register Act will end its existence. I quote, for example, that Vambo Kaal, the then MP, was concerned that private forest owners would be concerned as to why these data would be in the national register from which forest thieves and others could see them. That was the time at the time, 2003. But actually, as I said to the Minister before, there are quite a lot of all kinds of sub-data bases called JATS, VEKA, OSIS, DO, WHOE, KOTKAS, etc., and this is all very uneven even now. For example, on the one hand, it is a great idea to bring it all into a modern portal where one or two clicks of the mouse can provide an overview of what the result really is. The main things here, however, are that many data are either outdated or inadequate. For example, the draft law states that, if you look at data in national registers concerning different species of plants and animals, protected species of the first and second categories, only some ten per cent exists in the national environmental register. In fact, this data exists in the nature survey database, but it is not linked to the national environmental register, even later, and the data that is there does not reach, for example, planners and officials who make decisions. Or another thing. The University of Tartu has a huge database on PlutoF biodiversity. There are currently nearly 600,000 species records, but there are only 65,000 in the national environmental register. So what's going to be a tenth? They're not connected either. But that's it. It is important that these databases are very uneven and very imperfect. This ambition is right in itself, so that everyone should get to this portal. Actually, I can't. Or when it does, you don't know when. The most interesting thing is that I've been talking to specialists in the ministry who have been told to me that there may be one person in the whole great system of the Ministry of the Environment who shares this whole picture. That's an honest answer. Everyone is in his own silo or what to call it, who looks at the fishes, who look at the mineral resources, etc., but there is no whole picture. And there's no ambition. As I briefly pointed out to the Minister when I asked him a question... Can I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U290	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U291	... that there are no uniform rules in all this positive, and not all these databases are, unfortunately, compatible. There is no general rule that should enter data into this system and which data and what their legal weight are. There's just a move in the right direction. But it's important, and why I'm talking about all of this, that really all of this wildlife, not just wildlife, but all of nature, mineral resources, forests, air, water, etc., depends quite a lot, all of planning, details and general plans, decisions made by local authorities, the state, etc. To the point that people want to know where something is, for example, they're some kind of naturalist or whatever-interested people or developers. They actually get a very imperfect picture, even though we are in the digital age and we have a huge amount of data in different areas. But we have also unfortunately not been able to take things so far with this bill that, as a result of one or two clicks of the mouse, the data can really be retrieved and, accordingly, adequate decisions can be made. So this is the kind of subject we should be discussing. By the way, the previous law was dealt with in 2001 and 2002, for a year and a half, and in the meantime, even time was taken to improve the draft. It seems to me that these important issues should still be discussed seriously between the first and second readings. But I stress: it is in itself on the right track, the goal is right, but there are very, very many devils in all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U292	Thank you. There are no more requests from the political groups, so I will conclude the negotiations. As I have already said, the proposal of the commission was to close the first reading of draft 292 and set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 March at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U293	We are now going to the last item on the agenda today: the first reading of draft Act 302 on Accession to the 2010 Protocol to the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in the Sea of Hazardous and Harmful Substances (HNS Convention) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Secretary of the Environment, Tõnis Möldri, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damages in the Sea of Dangerous and Noxious Substances was adopted in 1996. The Convention has not yet entered into force, as the necessary number of countries have not joined it. There have been two main reasons for this: different definitions of the obligations of the recipient of dangerous and harmful substances and problems with reporting dangerous and harmful substances. To address these issues, an amending Protocol to the Convention was adopted in 2010. According to the Protocol, the Convention and the Protocol are to be considered, interpreted and applied as a single act and provides that, after the entry into force of the Protocol, the text of the amended Convention and the Consolidated Agreement of the Protocol are to be referred to as the 2010 Convention on Hazardous and Harmful Substances, the HNS Convention. The consolidated version of the text of the Agreement is informative and not open for accession. Only the Protocol can be signed, but participation in the Protocol also means participation in the revised Convention and therefore accession to the HNS Convention in its entirety. The Convention establishes an international system of compensation for damage to marine pollution caused by hazardous and harmful substances by sea, similar to the international oil funds to which Estonia has already joined. The Convention obliges the registered owner of a ship registered in a Contracting State to take adequate insurance or other financial security to cover potential pollution damage caused by dangerous and harmful substances at the applicable rates. A fund shall be set up to compensate for damage exceeding the insurance limits of the registered owner of a ship carrying dangerous and harmful substances. The compensation funds are derived from contributions from the HNS Fund. Contributions to the HNS Fund shall be made by the persons who received the cargo taxable in the country during the previous calendar year. HNS membership strengthens the competitive situation of ships as it provides additional safety and environmental security. The obligation to hold a financial guarantee under the HNS Convention does not have a negative economic impact on ships, since as a rule ships already have an insurance contract or other accident insurance. Become a party to the convention will increase the credibility of the Estonian state in the area of maritime safety and environmental protection. In view of the small size of the Baltic Sea, the density of traffic and bad weather conditions, the risk of an accident is high and the environmental damage that may result from the accident can also cause significant damage to the marine environment. For Estonia, ratification of the Convention to ships flying its flag means verification of the existence of an insurance or similar financial guarantee certificate and verification of the existence of a certificate on ships arriving at port. It is the responsibility of the Transport Board (old-named Maritime Administration) to issue a certificate and verify its existence. The documentation in accordance with the Convention shall be verified in the normal course of the ship inspection. In order to ensure the effective implementation of the Convention, a draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea and related laws is underway. The issue of certificates to the State and the verification thereof shall not entail any additional costs. The ratification of this Convention, or rather, its Protocol, which also means accession to that Convention, was initiated by Norway in 2017. In addition, Canada, South Africa, Denmark and Turkey have ratified or already acceded to the Protocol at present. All other Member States of the European Union are also planned to join. I think that the fact that Estonia is one of the first Member States of the European Union to join it shows that maritime safety and environmental damage can arise and that minimising them is our important objectives. So I ask you to support this accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U295	Thank you. It seems there are no questions for the Minister. Is it? Next, Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, will receive the floor as a co-rapporteur through video. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft for the first time on 11 January. The bill was presented by Rain Epler, the then Minister, who briefly gave an overview of the contents of the draft. I am not going to bring it out because it overlapd with what the Minister said in this Chamber. In addition, Agni Kaldma, the chief specialist of the Marine Environment Department, stated that the objective of the Convention was to ensure that the country could be compensated for pollution damage. Estonia has previously joined similar funds for oil products. Now, in the event of accidents, security will be extended to other hazardous and harmful substances as well. Member of the Commission Erki Savisaar asked whether Estonia really did not accede to the 1996 Convention and whether the current accession was accession to both the Convention and the 2010 amendments. Agni Kaldma specified that only the Protocol can be signed. However, as the Minister pointed out in his report, that is to say, accession to the Protocol is also considered to be accession to the Convention. Erki Savisaar also studied other countries. Agni Kaldma pointed out which countries were at the time of the signing of the protocol and who had subsequently ratified the protocol, as the previous rapporteur pointed out. Erki Savisaar also asked again what additional protection would be granted by accession to the Protocol. Agni Kaldma said that once the State has joined this protocol, the State will be compensated for the damage not compensated by the insurance through this HNS fund. It was then proposed to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 20 January and to appoint Erki Savisaar as rapporteur. In the meantime, these decisions were annulled, new decisions were already taken on 9 February in the new composition of the Committee on the Environment: Yoko Alender was appointed rapporteur and it was decided to send the draft to the large hall by 17 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-17_U297	Thank you, good waitress. Looks like you don't have any questions. Thank you! Do the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 302 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 March at 5.15 p.m. I thank everyone! The sitting is adjourned. See you at the Riigikogu hearing tomorrow.
