ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. There is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. We're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U2	79 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. We have one item on the agenda: the debate on the key national issue "Sustainable Development of State Military Protection" initiated by the Committee on National Defence. Let me remind you how we will conduct this debate. According to § 153 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the National Defence Committee has proposed to the Management Board that the next appointment be made. First of all, Enn Eesmaa, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will take the floor, whose presentation will be up to ten minutes and the time to answer questions will be up to ten minutes in the same way. The Secretary of Defence Kalle Laanet will then have a presentation for up to 20 minutes and the Minister will have up to 20 minutes to respond. The presentation by Lieutenant General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces, will last up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers will also last up to 20 minutes. The presentation by Indrek Kannik, Director of the International Centre for Defence Studies, will last up to 20 minutes and there will be up to 20 minutes for questions and answers. I would remind you that a member of the Riigikogu can ask any waitress a question if there is time and quick fingers allow. Then there are negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. But I would point out that, at the request of the Committee on National Defence, the representatives of the political groups could first speak. And when we have finished the debate, the Riigikogu will not take a decision on this point. First, please ask for the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the National Defence Commission Enn Eesmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U4	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, guests, listeners and viewers! The concept of security and protection is without doubt one of those with an exceptional number of facets and shades. Health protection and the resulting security that have been clearly reduced in the last year of the crisis are all at the forefront today. The current situation has already been repeatedly compared to the war of our generation, in fact, of all mankind against an invisible enemy. In view of the subject of today's debate, it is important to note the immediate willingness of our Defence Forces and Defence Leagues to assist, both in situations of civil crisis caused by the COVID-19 and in other situations. At the same time, however, we must not forget the military protection and security of countries and peoples. Even at this extremely difficult time, NATO's military budget is increasing, and this must be welcomed, because the world is now more volatile than usual because of military threats. It is difficult to predict when the next crisis will begin, a little easier to predict where it will start. The answer can be found in any region of our globe. Here are just a few examples of the last few weeks. As early as this spring, Russia will be holding the Presidency of the Arctic Council, which is also to a large extent in favour of a 'justifiable military presence' in the Arctic. Obviously, the tensions between the great powers of the United States and Russia and China are increasing; they would probably have led to war a few centuries ago. Today, on the initiative of the National Defence Committee, we are addressing the sustainable development of the military defence of the Estonian state as an important national issue. This is, of course, a long-term process, because the ultimate goal is the protection of the Estonian state and people, which will certainly change over time. In the near future, the National Defence Development Plan for the years 2021 to 2030 should be completed, which is why holding this debate in the Parliamentary Riigikogu Hall is an important milestone in developing the state's military defence over a decade. Ladies and gentlemen, The country's military defence must not be a distant and complex issue, but each person has a role and a task in it. Estonian military defence is based on a broad concept of national defence, which increases the resilience and readiness of Estonian society as a whole for any crisis. Protecting the state does not only involve military defence, by which we also mean multi-level internal defence. In order to protect the state, the whole society must be prepared from the individual to the Riigikogu and the President. Cybersecurity requires increasing attention and commitment. The NATO Cyber Security Centre in Tallinn, which is internationally known and recognised, is a grateful work. We want to commend our government for creating a new national cyber security department. Energy security and security of supply are also essential. I would like to stress the importance of conducting national defence teaching in schools. The defence and skills to realise it must be emphasized and taught from low ground. Fortunately, we have an expert national defence textbook for upper secondary schools and vocational training institutions, which is also worth browsing for those whose children go to school. Estonia's military defence is based on its own defence capacity and solid alliances based on its defence wills. It is important here and in the future to actively continue Estonia's representation on foreign missions, for which the Riigikogu gives a mandate. What needs to be strengthened and progressed, however, is regional cooperation. This means daily communication primarily with its closest neighbours Latvia and Lithuania, but also with the Nordic countries in the NB8 format. The development of cooperation shall also include the level of Parliament. Above all, we can enhance cooperation between parliaments and the respective committees on defence policies in the direction of the Baltic States. This has been done with great force over the years. Estonia is successfully represented at the Baltic Parliamentary Assembly, a joint visit by the Baltic Parliamentaries to the USA is planned, including the leaders of national defence and foreign committees. Joint sessions and other cooperation with the Latvian and Lithuanian National Defence Committee will continue. We are scheduled to have a joint meeting with our Finnish colleagues at the beginning of May. Together with my Lithuanian and Swedish colleague, I proposed to step up cooperation in the NB8 format, which could also be joined by Poland as a major region. The leaders of the National Defence Committees of all the national parliaments of the European Union shall hold systematic joint meetings at the level of the Member States of the European Union. Among other things, the NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg took part as a guest, and it is understandable that just over 90% of the citizens of the European Union live in NATO Member States. Our defence is, above all, NATO's task, which we share in solidarity. Through regional cooperation and joint action, we can provide additional support to the executive authorities in creating the necessary capabilities and seeking resources. The National Defence Committee discussed the possibilities of cooperation between the Baltic States in developing military capabilities until 2030 quite recently. These included marine defence missile systems, modern technical pre-warning discipline and much more. For example, joint procurement can be a direct result. Together with the Latvians, one such strengthening of coastal defence is currently underway. Speaking of the development of different capabilities, it should be remembered that NATO also sets out practical needs in the region. Defence investments have an impact on the country's economy. In ten years the Estonian defence industry has become a considerablely strong industry. The grip of defence companies working for the security of the Estonian state literally extends to space, from sea to cyberspace. The Estonian Defence Industry Association has made a strong contribution to the development of the area. Instead of individual defence-industrial products and services companies, we have now become interested in the industry of modern products based on private capital and in the global market, which, fortunately, is constantly growing and developing. A few words about military capabilities. Despite progress, the Defence Forces are not ready at all. Capacity development is a long and costly process. After all, today's big decision will, at best, only be a reality in four or five years' time. A great deal of public attention has been paid to capacity gaps such as coastal protection and mid-land air control, which need to be developed as a matter of priority. Yes, their development is also important from the point of view of the National Defence Committee. I would stress that reducing capacity gaps is also possible through a loan. In addition, we must tirelessly think about new technologies, including artificial intelligence. Today's wars are no longer waged or won by arrows, etc., drawn on land maps covering large walls. However, achieving technological dominance requires money and political agreement to make it possible. That's why I'm getting to the defense costs. The opinions of competent officials on the need for the nearest period range from 2% to 6.5% of GDP. It is also thought that the percentage or the number of money is not as important as the level of protection. Who, though, can confirm or prove this, is there sufficient protection or is there a little bit of a shortage? The criterion of truth can only be practice, i.e. the opponent's position on deterrence. But who would like to answer that question? Our ancient ancestors knew that to preserve peace, we must prepare for war. Today, Estonia's share of defence expenditure is quite exactly 2.3% of GDP. When it comes to the minimum of 2% of GDP, we could also talk about maintaining national defence. Human resources include resources. Today, we miss instructors even so much that the number of students is falling. Protecting the country is a shared responsibility of all of us, and no one else will do it for us. Only allies cannot be trusted, for people come to the aid of those who want to help themselves. Our determination has been recognised and recognised internationally. Examples include even the last few U.S. Heads of State. Today we can be proud of the presence of our allies in Estonia, which has proven international commitment to the development of the state's military defence. Even in the face of severe crises, we must make an effort not to pay a fee later on at the expense of the security and protection of the state and the people. Estonia's adequate sustainable protection is only guaranteed by long-term financial security. Both the percentage of defence costs and real money are important, which inevitably declines as GDP decreases. Only in this way can we be sure that the independent defence capacity and the presence of our allies will guarantee security for our country and our people for years, and we can all live with a calm heart in a fully protected Estonia. And the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu will certainly contribute to this work. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U5	Dear Chairman of the National Defence Commission, now is the time for questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you can ask each of the rapporteurs a question. I will not delete the list of questioners between the rapporteurs, which means that if you do not have a question for a particular waitress, but you want to ask a question to someone else, it would be wise to release your order so that we do not have to delete the list of questioners after each waitress in order to start again. Questions begin in Leo Kunna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Enn, you have completed your work on the appropriate subject with our committee. Could you also give the large hall a slightly more precise overview of how we have discussed defence spending in the Commission? I don't have a question of my own.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U7	Yes, of course. The answer can only be that in principle and completely free. As I mentioned in my report, people who are very well informed have thought that this 2% or 2.3% is actually the minimum, and if GDP decreases, this amount will also fall financially. Task number one is to request that it does not decrease. The more financial resources there is, the better. We have quite often also talked about a possible figure of 2.5 to 2.6% of GDP. This would already provide some opportunities that would make a good and meaningful way forward. At this point, I would certainly like to recall with a good word Johannes Kert, who has always wondered about these matters and also expressed his opinion. He also found that 2.5 to 2.6% of GDP would be the amount that would help Estonia develop national defence adequately. Russia, for example, uses 4% of its GDP each year, and the national defence expenditure of our neighbouring country Finland is, of course, higher than in Estonia. We have this amount of about 645 million a year. So when we talk at this level, we should achieve a better result in the long-range artillery, mid-land air control and anti-ship defence, certainly add a few or three brigades to the militia, and most importantly, all this power should be able to mobilise quickly if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U8	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As of 1 January 2020, the current Pension System of the Defence Forces is no longer in force for the members of the frame defence forces who entered the contract service. The negative consequences of this decision do not arise today or tomorrow, but they are certainly inevitable in the long term. Has this issue come up in the National Defence Committee? Has the creation of a universal pension system in these areas, such as the Defence Forces, Police and Border Guard, been considered as a rescue service, whose representatives risk their lives in their service and are not physically or mentally able to earn national retirement pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U10	Thank you very much. It is not necessary to prove for very long that the pension system needs harmonisation so that all those who have contributed to Estonian national defence receive a dignified old-age pension. And certainly, since we also have excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces, in the near future we will probably stop at this problem in detail. The main course is that those who have contributed must also receive a worthy reward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U11	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U12	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr Enn Peemaa, Chairman of the Commission. Indeed, the National Defence Development Plan is an important document and deserves a debate in this Chamber. But in parallel, the National Defence Committee has dealt with the National Defence Act. I am not asking about this procedure today, I am asking about this discussion. The National Defence Committee has been seriously talking about the amendment of the National Defence Act, for example, the clarification of roles, in particular towards the State Chancellery. Has the debate on the amendment of the National Defence Act continued in the new coalition, has it continued, or has this topic been placed in the desk drawer and will it not go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U13	I'm sure they'll move on. It was only a few days ago that I had a conversation with our Minister for Defence on this issue, and at the beginning of April we have a meeting with the Prime Minister. A few days ago, we had a conversation with our president. So the debate on the National Defence Act will undoubtedly continue to reflect on these points. Of course, there are elements in the National Defence Act that are covered by state secrets, so you can't really talk about everything in public. But the main thing is that synergy must persist on several levels, and that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U14	Mr President, thank you for this introductory speech. Now we can move on to the Minister for Defence's speech. As long as the Minister of Defence comes to the Chair, I would remind the members of the Riigikogu that the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces have also prepared some slides and they are available to you on this item. We're not showing them on the screen right now. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of Defense!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U15	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, behind the monitors! Good General! Good Indrek! First of all, I thank the Chairman of the Riigikogu Enn Front for the introduction, but I also thank the previous chairman of the committee, who was just on the monitor, Mr Andres Metsoja, and all the other members of the committee who were in the previous coalition and are present. In fact, it was the decision that we were discussing this issue in this large Chamber, much earlier. It is my great honour to present before you a presentation on the sustainable development of military defence as one of the core functions of the country. In order to get a full picture, Lieutenant General Martin Herem, the Commander of the Defence Forces, explains the operational needs and possibilities of military protection in particular after me, and Indrek Kannik, Director of the International Centre for Defence Research, describes and evaluates the security environment in more detail. I will focus on five issues. First of all, the threat assessment. Second, defense costs and power development. Thirdly, defence cooperation and allied relations in the context of NATO and the European Union. Fourth, a broad range of national defence and COVID-19 pandemic issues. And fifthly, new technologies and cooperation with the Estonian defence industry. First, the threat assessment. The threat picture has not improved in the last year. Russia continues its aggressive and contently hostile policy towards the Western world, that is, NATO, the European Union and their Member States. COVID-19 has added vaccine diplomacy in addition to cyber attacks and the information war. The Conventional War hasn't gone anywhere. Russia is regularly practicing a major war against NATO from the Arctic to the Black Sea, in the Atlantic Ocean and elsewhere. It has increased the capabilities of the Baltic fleet in its efforts to gain control of the Baltic Sea. He has created so-called A2/AD bubbles that hinder access to our region. The strategic exercise Zapad 2021, which will take place in September, will once again demonstrate Russia's actual military plans. What is being practiced is being pursued whenever possible. Russia's major regular or sudden exercises in 2008 and 2014 became an immediate aggression against Georgia and Ukraine. Russia is experiencing economic difficulties, as most countries are in the current situation, but military capacity and readiness and foreign policy ambitions are and remain the top priority in Moscow. Seven years have passed since the illegal annexation of Crimea and the Putin regime needs a new success story. It is therefore believed that Russia can take risks and, if possible, go to a new avenue. This means that Estonia will have to make even more efforts in the coming years to strengthen its military defence, both independently and in cooperation with its allies. Estonia needs to fill the gaps and gaps in key defence capabilities as soon as possible, as vulnerability makes a particularly small country a target. Good listeners! Now for defense and power development. The epidemic and the accompanying economic downturn have significantly reduced the long-term forecast of the state's defence costs. With regard to the economic crisis in 2009, it could be said that it benefited our national defence. Then the cost-effectiveness of our national defence was thoroughly reviewed. The number of staff was reduced, the basis was established for resourceally realistic and tax model-based defence planning, which has also been approved by the National Audit Office in its audits. Estonian defence is one of the most cost-effective in the North Atlantic Union. We can put out more than 20 000 and combatable Defence Forces, as well as volunteers from the Defence League. We have achieved a great deal in the last ten years. For example, we introduced infantry combat vehicles and new medium- and long-range anti-tank weapons, developed nearest anti-aircraft and started to replace handguns. We created a cyber-military command and we have fully supported the functioning of the Defence League as a well-equipped and trained territorial security carpet. Unlike in 2009, we no longer have the opportunity to use only internal resources to adapt to the crisis. When preparing the National Defence Development Plan 2030, we have already made significant internal cuts in both fixed costs and military cost models. Maintaining 2% on the basis of the post-epidemic economic forecast would essentially lead to a reduction in the military structure in the current plans. At the same time, we must take into account that the current level of defence expenditure at 2.3% of GDP is almost equal to the 2% forecast before the crisis due to the economic downturn. This will only enable existing defence capabilities to be maintained. The calculations of defence planners show that defence expenditure at 2.6% of GDP would be sufficient to fill the gaps in primary independent defence capabilities. We are thinking of the acquisition of coastal defence missile systems, mines and mid-earth anti-aircraft systems, but also the integration of navy fleets into the navy, which is optimal in terms of management and cost, and better militaryly functioning. The situation at sea is also of increasing concern to our allies. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Now for defence cooperation with allies. The role of the allies in Estonia's defence must not be underestimated under any circumstances. Every level of cooperation between the Baltic and Nordic countries, NATO allies and the members of the European Union has a specific role and efficiency. The interest of the nuclear community US, Great Britain and France in the protection of Estonia and their presence in Estonia and elsewhere on the north-east wing of NATO does not allow the emergence of a security vacuum. Estonia also has very good defence relations with Denmark, Poland, Germany and other allies. The presence of NATO allies means not only the battle groups of NATO allies in all Baltic countries and the Baltic air security mission, but also the international exercises taking place in this region, where the plans of the allies are being played through the plans of the allies to bring back troops for our protection when the need arises. The dedicated and professional participation of the Defence Forces and the Defence League in international military operations is beneficial to us both politically and militarily and motivates allies to contribute to Estonia's defence. The role of the European Union in national defence is tending to be underestimated. The Union has no military muscle, but it has financial and know-how to develop, for example, dual-purpose infrastructure, military mobility, which is very helpful in protecting the European Union. I think it is very important that Estonia finds the opportunity to become a spokesperson for Nordic-Baltic military cooperation. But here, too, we can only be crediblely demanding if we do our own homework for at least "four" grades. Looking at the threat and the realities, we're good at three. The state of air protection and marine defence currently does not allow any more to be said. The defence cooperation of the Baltic States gave birth to success stories over a quarter of a century: a joint air surveillance network that supports the NATO air security mission, the Baltic Defence College in Tartu, which is now the only headquarters college in the European Union that will provide English-language instruction after Brexit, a joint maritime surveillance system that will soon be operational. The list of Baltic success stories will continue in the future when Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania agree, for example, on joint planning of military capabilities and the organisation of possible joint procurement. Common capabilities would enable the Baltic States to support each other even without crossing national borders in a crisis situation. General Herem will tell you more about this in his report. But we must also make the Baltic defence problem more visible to the allies. One way to do this is to organise the Baltic Summit on Military Protection on a regular basis. Estonia has received enough defensive assistance from the United States and NATO funds. In recent years, it has risen to 50 million euros per year in the middle, with the support of our foreign missions. We are working to ensure that Estonia receives subsidies from allies in the future. However, we must not forget that those who first help themselves will be helped. The more we can demonstrate our commitment to protection and the ability and will to create real and necessary defenses, the more allies are willing to put their backs on their shoulders. Ladies and gentlemen, Next topic: Wide-spread defence. In the light of the COVID-19, I would like to speak separately about the broad soil of national defence. Wide ground means, on the one hand, that the state's protection begins with the contribution of all of us. As the current crisis has shown, this word has another important meaning. Our defence resources also play a key role in non-military crises. Over the years, the Ministry of Defence has been involved in resolving almost all major civil crises: the Pärnu flood, the Padaoru clogging, the fall of the Polish aircraft on the ice of Lake Ülemiste, extensive blackouts and the current pandemic. COVID-19 has taught us some very clear lessons. Firstly, national defence organisations can also play a key role in managing civil crises. At the beginning of the crisis, the Ministry of Defence provided assistance both in launching the crisis staff and in managing the crisis. Without hundreds of thousands of masks released from the stores of the Defence Forces, we would have been hit from the very beginning by a massive crisis of personal protective equipment. The Defence Forces took their field hospital to Saaremaa and integrated it with impressive fluidity into one department of Kuressaare Hospital. Secondly, the COVID-19 crisis has shown how important the Defence League plays in addition to the Defence Forces. The Defence League supported the Health Board's headquarters, testing centres and registration offices, border guards, police patrols and crisis information centre with staff. The Defence Union is a huge resource that the state values, supports and always uses in emergency situations and ensuring internal security at national and local level. We don't have enough money and people to duplicate the capabilities and activities of the Defence League unnecessarily. At the same time, we need to be sure that we do not book the same volunteers in several places during the crisis. The PPA crisis reserve initiative must be coordinated with the Defence Forces and the Defence League so that we do not create further confusion with the different reserve structures. Thirdly, COVID-19 clearly showed that the ability of the Estonian state to manage the crisis must improve. The Riigikogu and the government shape the country's strategy. Ministers should not be overloaded with the debate on detailed measures, which should be the responsibility of crisis headquarters and professionals. In the event of a crisis, the bureaucratic machine can prevent the implementation of rapid and smart solutions and the operational involvement of the private sector. I also consider it necessary to take a critical look at the regulations on national defence in order to find bureaucratic necks of bottles that can paralyse our ability to act when a military crisis breaks out. Fourthly, this crisis has exposed the key role of local government and the private sector. We also need to find a new, more effective way of involving local governments and the private sector in national defence, so that every municipality and city government and management of the company providing life-critical services are aware of its role and importance in defending the Estonian state. I've talked a lot about the resource available for national defence. The most important of them is the desire for protection. Understanding national statehood and national defence and raising the will for defence begins in schools, if not at home. The Ministry of Defence strongly supports national defence education. An increasing number of classes go together for military service. I am grateful to all school leaders and teachers who have promoted national defence education. From early John Kerd, I take over one important problem: it is the increasingly deteriorating mental and physical health of Estonian youth. So far, we have been able to increase the number of conscripts as planned and have greatly reduced the loss of service for conscripts. But in a decade's time, we may no longer have qualified candidates. We need to start a broad range of activities to expand the mobility habits and opportunities of young people. This is also needed to strengthen our population's immune system before the next major epidemic. Next topic: new technologies and cooperation with the Estonian defence industry. Technology and innovative solutions are playing a growing role in warfare. Unmanned air, sea, submarine and land resources are increasingly used by armed forces in many countries. These tools are already shaping the tactics of warfare. In parallel with autonomous weapons systems, the field of artificial intelligence is also developing. All these new technologies, drones, robots, etc. are for two purposes, but they may become more dangerous and destructive than manned weapons systems in warfare. We must keep up with the time to resist the opponent's high-tech attack tools and also compensate for the lack of human resources. Estonia is a small country, especially alongside the giants of the military industry, but we have no reason to be ashamed. With the support of the Ministry of Defence, a defence industry has been established which has become internationally competitive in the market for cyber defence solutions and autonomous weapons systems. Estonian companies play an increasingly important role in the capabilities development of the Defence Forces. There is a high-tech break in warfare, but the main platforms of conventional weapons I want to confirm that we have been very aware of the fact that Estonia's level of defence costs is clearly dependent on the good performance of the Estonian economy when drafting the new National Defence Development Plan 2021 to 2030. In addition to the Estonian defence industry, many other manufacturing companies and service providers have been involved in the development of the Defence Forces and Defence League. Nearly half of the defence budget goes back to the Estonian economy and supports employment. We are renewing our defence policy in order to find a way to further link entrepreneurship with defence developments. The COVID crisis has indicated that the state must also learn to apply in a new way the knowledge and willingness of the private sector to deal with crises. As one of the key factors in empowering Estonia's economic future, but also as a matter of particular value, the Ministry of Defence's area of government attaches great importance to the achievement of climate goals. I am therefore pleased to announce that the Defence Forces, when drafting a new national defence development plan, have put forward their proposals on how to redesign the air monitoring network of key importance for Estonian military defence so that potential renewable energy projects will gain more rights of life in the future. This will be our contribution to the tiger jump ahead of Estonia. Finally, I would like to address all those who ask: why must we talk about defence and its sustainable financing in the midst of a large-scale global epidemic? The reason is very simple. Estonia must do its utmost to prevent the epidemic from infecting the core function of our country, so that our epidemic exhaustion does not cause our national defence to lose ambition and determination for the next decade. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of Defense. You also have a number of questions. Starts Uno Kaskpeit. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As of 1 January 2020, the current Pension System of the Defence Forces is no longer in force for the members of the frame defence forces who entered the contract service. The negative consequences of this decision are not yet evident today or tomorrow, but unfortunately, in the long term, they are inevitable. Have you considered creating a universal pension system in these areas: Defence Forces, Police, Border Guard? Their representatives risk their lives in their service and are not physically or spiritually able to earn public retirement pensions in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U18	Thank you, good Uno, for this question. In the same way, the question is entirely fundamental: why have we moved in the last decade towards losing special pensions, starting with judges and ending with the frame defence forces? The reasons why this has been done have been very different. The most important reason has been that our state budget, which we all use, is also members of the Riigikogu and members of the government, as it is. And when we are talking about the sustainability of our country in the key to the future, there is currently a table on the financing of health care, which requires a large piece of the state budget: a minimum of a few hundred million. We are talking today about how we can empower military defence, develop it. And, of course, our people. It makes no sense for us to talk about investing if we cannot link people to investment. One argument that is being used is that if young people go to the state for the service of the Defence Forces, to the police, to the Rescue Board, the desire to protect the weaker, to protect the Estonian state will certainly play an important role. But when they start a family life, they start settling in, they're supposed to prefer a higher salary before they reach retirement age. As a result, the Ministry of Defence has considered that the income of the Defence Forces could be 1.3 times the average income of Estonia. This is our present capacity. In short, we have not discussed this at the moment. Should this be discussed, it is a matter of political debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U19	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U20	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Minister of Defence! In the last decade, the strength of the armored maneuver of the centre of gravity of the Defence Forces' power development was still lacking, but the tanks on which it was built are still missing. We are also unable to acquire new tanks at the level of defence expenditure of 2.6% or even 3% of GDP. Great Britain is currently preparing a thorough modernisation of its tanks called Challenger 2 with the aim of ensuring their great battle capabilities for the next 20 years. Public sources indicate that there are over 79 tanks due to the reduction of tank units. They're not being modernised. Do you have any more information on that? Have you consulted British officials? Do you see an opportunity to solve our lack of tank capacity, in cooperation with the British, by joining their modernisation project?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U21	Thank you, good General! This is certainly an extremely important question that you have just put on the table. Our specialists say that according to experience, retrofitting tanks may not be significantly cheaper than buying them. In addition to acquisition costs, long-term fixed costs must also be guaranteed. If the tank company were formed with 15 tanks, the annual fixed cost would be EUR 14 million ♪ that would be to support them. Today, the NATO Battle Group, which is here to fill the tank capacity gaps, also includes tanks that are practicing with our units. Whether in the future we have the capacity to acquire and support tanks, that is the question of the future. At the moment, we do not have it included in the development plan, nor has it been discussed that we could develop tank capacity in this form in 2021/2030.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U22	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Kaja Kallas, Prime Minister, has said in this hall that there will be no compulsory vaccination in Estonia. This is exactly what Jaak Aab confirmed last week as Deputy Prime Minister. He added that even indirect coercion, when the employer affects the worker to vaccinate, threatening to terminate the employment relationship, is unlawful. I am aware of such data that unfortunately, there is a document circulating in the Defence Forces that states that, if the Defence Forces are not allowed to be vaccinated, they are not part of the Defence Forces. Please tell me, Mr Minister, whether you have given the Commander of the Defence Forces such orders, orders, guidelines or hints that the continuation of service depends on vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U24	Thank you for that question. Yeah, I'm with the Commander of the Defence Forces, I think, more than once. There is a chain of command in the Defence Forces and the Defence Forces must guarantee the defence capabilities of the state, Estonia's security. In my opinion, it is my personal position that the people who have to guarantee the security of the Estonian state will do everything in their power to be healthy enough to be able to do so. Has such a written order been sent down? I owe you that answer right now, but we can discuss it with the General. But my personal position is, and as Minister of Defence, I am of the opinion that it is absolutely normal that the Defence Forces, as well as all conscripts, have been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U25	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question concerns the location of the Defence Forces units on Estonian territory. Kill is an understandable location, the Defence Forces' polygon is right next door. My first question is: is it reasonable to concentrate practically all of our defenses in a single place that is relatively vulnerable? I would also like to ask as a former comm battalion reserve that there is now a plan, as I have read, to transfer the HQ and the comm battalion to Paldiski, away from the HQ. It's quite vulnerable from the sea and the air and away from its so-called operating site, the main headquarters. And at all, what are the thoughts and plans of the Ministry of Defence regarding the location of troops across Estonia as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U27	Thank you for your question. As far as Tapa is concerned, basically, the substantive developments in Tapa have ended. There's a concentration of those units whose peacetime training requires the proximity of our largest exercise area. Jägala was not considered to be a good development in the sense of this limitation in its time. We know that if our defence forces carry out their exercises, it will take enough free space, a large area with no homes or industrial plants in its vicinity. Only then can you perform serious exercises. In particular, it was not possible to build shooting ranges there because of the high level of air traffic when talking about Jäga. As far as the financial side is concerned, the infrastructure is rentable if it serves at least 500 to 800 people. It is clear that apart from campus-based formation and mobilisation, the Defence Forces must also consider the need for distributed formation. The demise of our formation system must not be linked to the infrastructure of peacetime training, nor will it be. When it comes to communication systems, we know that it is certainly not important now that the point of receipt of communication information is linked to the location of the headquarters. We broadcast information through very different channels. So I don't see that connection at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U28	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U29	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! The positive side of the previous government's activities can undoubtedly be borne by the start-up of mine-watering and coastal defence capabilities, and by finding the money needed for this. It is also the reason for the increase in defence expenditure in the following year. But what do you think the longer development perspective of Estonian marine defence should be? What capabilities and units should it contain? What should we develop independently in Estonia, which, in cooperation with the three Baltic states and with the larger allies, including the United States of America? And which of these activities are included in this National Defence Development Plan 2021 to 2030?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U30	Thank you for that question. Let's just say, as an islander, marine defense is very important to my heart. Here I must bow again to the late General Kerdi, who actually opened my eyes to the full security picture of the Estonian state. There, marine protection was very important. With the first swing, I felt that maybe it was important to me because I lived on an island and was from Saaremaa. But General Kert explained in very simple words and simple answers why it is actually important for the whole of Estonia. And not just for Estonia, but for the whole of the Baltics. Estonian marine defence as a whole should, in the long term, be united under uniform management, so that the border guard fleet belonging to the Police and Border Guard Board and coastal defence radar would also be part of the Wartime structure of the Defence Forces. Such governance will certainly ensure better safety at sea. Coordination between the two bodies and fragmentation of tasks would be reduced. The current ability to search for mines in the sea must be maintained in the form of at least three ships. Of course, there should be more patrol ships with weapons to influence potential opponents. And if the P.P.A. ships were to join the Navy, they should be armed, too. Or perhaps the ships should be quite different. By asking the United States for help, it would be wise to combine the needs of all three countries, namely in terms of capabilities and protection of the seas. Priority is the missing patrol ships, of course. I believe that, in the long run, the country should have one navy. Right now we're developing in parallel peacetime navy in the Police and Border Guard Board and wartime navy in the Defence Forces. We all agree that this is simply too much for a country the size of Estonia. Where do I start? We could start by combining leadership and situational awareness. We could acquire new ships in the future as part of the Estonian Navy. I'm sure the Minister of the Interior and I will come to such an agreement in time. If necessary, maritime protection should be consolidated, as has recently been pointed out by the United States. I believe that we can also obtain financial support from them for the development of the marine domain. One example is that two mobile maritime surveillance stations should arrive very soon from the Americans, which naturally give a much better picture of what is happening at sea. In a nutshell. Marine defence is particularly important so that we can ensure the arrival of the allies if there really is a real military threat through the Baltic Sea. A good example is the decisions made by our neighbour, Sweden: Gotland is now once again guaranteed the military capabilities of the Swedish state. There is a sea defence and an opportunity to create a threat picture and collect information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U31	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U32	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Kalle! In the second half of last year, we made two attempts to launch the creation of medium-range anti-aircraft capabilities. The first time, no consensus could be found in the government. The second time, when you came up with a constructive proposal to resolve this issue within the budgetary process, when you were still in opposition, we again failed to find consensus in the Commission. But I quote my dear colleague, Johannes Kerti, who, in his last interview, stressed that if he were the Minister of Defence, mid-earth air control would be his priority number one. This is our biggest and most dangerous power gap. That is what we, the former frame troopers, are all in agreement with, and the think tanks confirm, in the Committee on National Defence. How has the creation of mid-ground air control capabilities been reflected in the National Defence Development Plan 2021 to 2030, or is it not yet at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U33	Thank you, good Leo, for this question. As we know in this Chamber, General Kerdi's positive shadow is above us all. He has certainly given impetus to the development of various capabilities throughout his defence capabilities. Speaking specifically about mid-earth air control, which the good John repeatedly brought to the table, this is a capacity that will certainly need to be developed in the next decade. But I will just give you one example in number: only its ability to invest requires EUR 290 million. Not to mention we have to train the people who are going to do all this, who know how to use it. And there's more to the annual maintenance. Mid-earth air control is one of the priorities of the next decade.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U34	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Kalle! The tasks of the Department of Home Affairs, Police and Border Guard Board include, inter alia, strengthening border guards and protection during crisis and war periods and responding to hybrid threats to the internal security of the country. Without the help and support of the Department of Defense, this is not possible. As far as filling the power gap is concerned, the process of escalation of the conflict can take place very quickly. Consequently, it has always been my view that border guards must also be able to integrate under the command of the armed forces through the chain of command. This, however, requires both training and weaponry. You and I have discussed this before. Do you think that all parties understand the need for it? And if not, is there a corresponding working group, as we talked about, who... (Director: "Time!") be able to analyze the situation effectively and make emotionless decisions? (The President: "Mr Breivel, time! ") At the same time, how do the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Forces and the Defence League intend to support the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board in carrying out essential tasks during this difficult time? How is this reflected in the new military defence development plan 2021 to 2030?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U36	Thank you, good Riho, for such a substantive and specific question. As we have discussed among ourselves, the protection of the Estonian state cannot be taken with emotions; the mindset must be made in a non-emotional way. As far as the issue you raised is concerned, this issue is mainly addressed within the framework of the National Defence Action Plan. The officials of two ministries are already discussing how this could be done. In the case of crises, we are talking about civilian crises and war. Indeed, the tasks must be fulfilled; Estonia must be protected. The logical consequence is that, in the case of a civilian crisis, the crisis is managed not by a military authority, but by a civilian body. And in the case of a military crisis, of course, the Commander of the Defence Forces is in charge. I can't tell exactly when we're going to get to the point where these roles are very clearly distributed. But it all starts with the task. And the task is done, the two ministries are dealt with every day, and I'm optimistic in any case. I very much hope that it will not take ten years for us to agree on how to carry out tasks from the point of view of national defence, both the tasks before the PBA and the tasks assigned to the Ministry of Defence by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, The time planned for the Secretary of Defense for questions and answers has come to an end. I hope you can direct your questions to Lieutenant General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces. But before we get to the questions, the lieutenant general has 20 minutes to report. The slides accompanying the presentation of Lt-Gen Herem are also included. Mr. Secretary of Defense, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U38	Thanks, everybody! Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U39	Lt-Gen Herem's report also includes slides that are available to us electronically. Now, I'd like to ask Lt-Gen Herem for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U40	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Members of the Riigikogu! All viewers and listeners! I'll give you an overview of military defense, starting with a threat picture and ending with possible developments. My presentation, as I said, has to do with the slides, and that's why my points are tied to the slide headlines. I draw attention to slides Nos 5, 6 and 7, which are perhaps more illustrative than others. And I am always willing to provide further information and clarification on this subject, as I have already done in two groups of the Riigikogu. So boldly invite me to explain in different formats! Military threat. The Russian Federation continues to pose a military threat to neighbouring countries. Conventional military instruments play a major role in achieving the national ambitions of the Russian Federation. The development of conventional military tools has not stopped during the COVID-19 pandemic. The only thing the pandemic has delayed in the Russian Federation is the Victory Day parade. The assessment of the military threat from the Russian Federation cannot be based on a Western culture of governance that is our own. This is a criminal culture where lawlessness, including violence, is promised to a stronger one, while public rhetoric calls on other countries to behave in an abiding manner, particularly in matters concerning Russia itself. Ponyatije is also more important than any other rules in the international dimension. Deržava is a value in itself. Despite society's popular understanding of hybrid war, cyber attacks or drone strikes, the main way to defeat war and opponents is still an infantry gun and a soldier with boots on the surface of another country. Against this, only an equivalent conventional force can help. Deterioration. The aim of the set-off is to convince a potential aggressor not to carry out an attack by demonstrating to him the unacceptablely high price of this undertaking or the failure to achieve its objectives. For this purpose, general deterrence, i.e. demonstration of the readiness and presence of daily abilities, or immediate deterrence, is used, i.e. carrying out specific activities in response to the increased aggressiveness of the aggressor. Estonia is able to carry out a general and immediate deterrent, both alone and with its allies. A few examples of general deterrence: additional learning gatherings, joint exercises with allies, as well as the desire to protect the population. An example of immediate deterrence is the transfer of additional aircraft by the allies here and the raising of combat readiness by partial or total mobilization. Estonia alone can demonstrate the high cost of aggression; however, we can raise the unachievability of goals with our allies. In addition to political will, diplomacy, the strength of society, allied relations and economic resources, the tools of dumping are undoubtedly also military instruments. Without the latter, the first ones will not be of much benefit in deterrence. Estonia's message in the development of military defence is: the cost of aggression is high and the strategic goals of the aggressor are not achievable thanks to the allies. Allies. Undoubtedly, our allies are part of both deterrence and protection. Those allies who are present in Estonia are integrated into the activities and plans of the Estonian Defence Forces and are prepared for military activities in the defence of Estonia and the entire region. Undoubtedly, with their presence, they are also the trigger for additional support from the allies. Baltic air security is carried out by allies' air vehicles, which allow control of Estonian airspace during peacetime and in the event of a crisis. Thus, one of their roles is to prevent an unexpected attack. In the event of a crisis or conflict, our allies can immediately support the effects and will continue to support the transplant forces. But to do so, we must have a clear plan, a governance structure, communication systems and, of course, political will. The current management system starts in Mons, Belgium, from the senior headquarters of NATO's European Allied Forces, under which the Joint Command staff in Brunsum manages the activities of north-east and eastern Europe. In turn, the headquarters of the Northeast Corps is located in Szczecin, Poland. In turn, the headquarters of the North Division in Ādaži directs military activities in Estonia and Latvia. Two Estonian brigades and one Latvian brigade and other NATO army units are planned under him. Cooperation between the North-East Corps, the North-East Division and the Estonian Defence Forces is one of our main focus, because it is the key to cross-border activities in the Baltic States, which, given the possible military actions of the Russian Federation, is vital. Estonian Defence Forces. With the military capabilities currently available and developed, Estonia is able to cause significant damage to the potential aggressor and create more favourable conditions for supporting the allies with both forces and effects. However, in the event of aggression, for example against one Baltic State, none of the three will be able to support others outside their borders either with units or effects. We're waiting for help. Undoubtedly, we are very expensive in the event of aggression for our opponent, but we are still the force waiting for an attack on our country's territory. Our powers are also used in international military operations in the fight against terrorism. Our military capabilities are also used to a very large extent internally to resolve any crisis, not to mention that in military service young people will be provided with the skills and knowledge necessary for future life and that there will also be the integration of Russian-speaking citizens into Estonian society. The current National Defence Development Plan 2020,2026 has set the objective of establishing the Defence Forces with just over 24000 fighters. The proposed development plan 2021 to 2030 proposes to increase staff to 26000, mainly in the form of land protection prepared on the basis of the Defence League. In addition, important developments are planned at sea: the acquisition of marine mines and high range anti-ship missiles. This is also the first step in the development of regional capabilities. As mentioned above, anti-ship missile procurement is planned in cooperation with Latvia. Developments are also planned to increase fire power in anti-tank and artillery. The ability to communicate with allies in the air, on land and at sea should increase significantly. It's inevitable for their support. With and alongside this, we will improve awareness and advance warning of the situation. The total planned cost of development and maintenance over the next 10 years is estimated to be 2,23% of GDP in 2020. This is the forecast for 2019, which said 2%. If the military defence budget is within 2% in the coming years, this is on the basis of the 2020 economic forecast, then we will not be able to continue with the above-mentioned developments and we will have to reduce our capabilities, i.e. freeze them. To do so more cheaply would mean self-deception, where the existing entities do not really have enough ammunition, communication equipment or means of transport on paper. These units aren't trained or they haven't practiced together. In a nutshell. We have a choice between three development scenarios. If the cost of protection is currently estimated to be 2%, we are less dangerous to the opponent today and we must reduce the Defence Forces. The cost of defence at 2,23% of GDP means that we would still be painful and dangerous for the opponent, but only within our territory. The cost of defence of over 2.3% means that we can influence the opponent outside our country's borders and contribute to NATO's collective defence with military capabilities. Sixth slide: regional approach. Developments in the military capabilities of the Russian Federation increasingly indicate that the Baltic States, together with their closest neighbours, must be prepared to contribute more and faster to military defence. We must be prepared not only to operate in our own country's territory, but in the entire 3B operation area, including the Baltic Sea. Otherwise, we could be hit one by one, and blocking allies' support is very likely, at least in the short term. This does not mean that Estonia should protect its neighbours. This means that we must be able to support each other. If the state decides to improve military defence, we should be guided by three possible directions, creating dilemmas for a potential aggressor that bring, firstly, strategic effects, i.e. the opponent is affected in the event of aggression in his own territory, his strategic communications and the ability to prevent allies' access; secondly, the opponent's military action in the event of aggression is affected throughout the region, in the territory of the Baltic States, including the Baltic Sea; and lastly, influencing the opponent's parts in the event of aggression can only take place in our own territory; strategically, we will always remain responsive. The impact of all these effects is many times greater when we act as a region, not as a country. By region, I mean the three Baltic States and Poland. We have to admit that the threats actually threaten us are regional. Finally, the map of the region. Those with slides can view the scale. At present, the movement of capabilities for regional military protection is difficult, especially in terms of long distances, logistics and the associated vulnerability. That is why we can only succeed in our own country's territory, and we remain largely dependent on support coming from farther west. Although there is no doubt about the support of the allies, and this is essential, in time we can lose an unacceptable amount in people, infrastructure, territory, without doubt also in morals and social relics. Therefore, regional progress is needed in the case of further developments. A few examples. Middle-earth air control located in Tallinn does not support us in the event of danger as it would support us in protecting the North Division or the North-East Corps, including the allied units coming in. The range of activities of the tank company would be about 100 kilometres in the event of a conflict, while anti-ship missiles in all three Baltic countries would be able to support the arrival of the allies as well as protect each other's coasts and ports. Multi-shot missile systems with a range of 300 kilometres or more allow the Baltic States to support battle activities in each other's territories as well as to influence the military capabilities preventing the allies from coming. Developing such capabilities in whole or in parts means raising the cost of military defence to 2.6% of GDP in the next ten years. In the event of regional development, there is an increased likelihood of financial support from our biggest allies. I would stress that this would not be simply an increase in self-defence. This would be a regional step towards achieving credibility and better cooperation in the eyes of NATO's allies. It doesn't mean buying anything together. This is the creation of a common capability and, if necessary, the implementation of a capability within NATO's plans on the basis of a common plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U41	Thank you, Lieutenant General. Members of the Riigikogu have many questions for you. The round of questions begins with Andres Metsoja. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Lt-Gen Herem! You have made a very clear presentation, and I thank you for that. Indeed, our security is based on national, regional and also allies level. My question will perhaps come from a little thought to the previous speaker, but certainly also from you. This concerns the military mobility of the European Union. Exercises have been carried out to move troops, but the investment side is also an important part of this. Perhaps you will briefly comment and express your view on whether we in the European Union are taking sufficient steps in this direction and whether this pace is what is now needed in our security room.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U43	Thank you. As of today, Estonia has presented its vision of developing military mobility, and other Baltic countries have also done so. If you're asking me if the pace is enough, as a military officer, I'm telling you, no doubt not. However, there is no way in which we can speed up the processes in the European Union and, in relation to the pandemic, we are likely to have reduced funding. I know that funding for the development of military mobility has been significantly reduced compared to what was originally planned, and that is why these processes have also slowed down. However, I would like to point out that, although this is a European Union, we should be guided by regional needs in our ambitions, not so much by national ones. And that's a purely military position. Because above all, the infrastructure elements used by our allies to get here should be completed, not where they stop moving.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U44	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U45	Thank you very much, manager. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for your meaningful presentation. My question was meant for the Secretary of Defense, but okay. So let's talk about drones, automatic systems, anti-tanks, coastguards, land, air and water. These systems, let's say, drones have inevitably become an integral part of modern military technology. This part is increasing, and at some point it will probably become a question of durability. As they say, si vis pacem, para bellum. The Estonian defence industry has quite considerable production capacity in these areas, with knowledge and skills. How has the implementation of drones and unmanned vehicle systems been reflected in the current national defence planning, the new national defence development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U46	Thank you. First of all, the drones are armed today in the 1st and 2nd Brigades as well as in special units. Partly produced by Estonia. They have a solid place in our intelligence. I admit that if there were more resources, we would undoubtedly use them more. We are definitely developing in this area now, but we already have them in place today. As far as automatic systems are concerned, this is actually a dream to a very large extent. These systems aren't really working anywhere right now. It's in some places, but it's not widely used. The Defence Forces are testing an unmanned land vehicle primarily for the purpose of understanding the possibilities of this vehicle. And again, this is Estonian production. We have also started developing a ship that is semi-autonomous, manned or not manned according to needs, as part of the development of maritime capabilities. To that end, we will also include the European Union's money. So in the end, of course, we try to keep up with the times. The Department of Applied Research at the Academy of Defence Forces helps us very much further, working with different universities, mainly in Estonia, and with different producers in Estonia. I dare say that we are not, especially if we take into account our resources, lagging behind the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U47	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U48	Thank you, good manager. Mr President of the Defence Forces. The Minister of Defence beautifully described how the Defence Forces have come to the aid of the crisis. But not only are we all grateful for this, I hope the Defence Forces have something to learn from it. I am actually asking more about crisis communication. The understanding of how people are willing to comply with the restrictions, how long they will do so, is, in my view, also very much needed in a wider sense. How has the Defence Forces been able to solve the current crisis, I don't know, benefit from or learn the readiness for another type of crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U49	Thank you very much. The Defence Forces are made up of thousands of citizens, like any other society, so it is relatively difficult for us to keep a certain routine for a long time. This is shown by the virus's distribution numbers. If we did so well in the spring, it was because we only had two months to complete our service, and we shut down any movement of conscripts. That's why we managed to keep the infection very low. At present, we have citizens of the state, or conscripts, who have been sent to compulsory service in the troops. It has been morally difficult for us to close them out for a longer period of time, we are talking about the period from October to Midsummer, when the other society is still relatively open. I am not talking about closing shops here, I am talking about freedom of movement. These people quite often really need to do something outside the army, and that is why we have had to allow them so-called city permits at least once a month. It has, of course, to be paid a fee. The virus is inside the Defence Forces. We have taken a risk now and the consequences, since the staff are still very healthy people, have not been dangerous or significant. What Have We Learned? I can read a series of exercises from autumn and even from last spring. We have conducted international exercises with the participation of thousands of people. They are, of course, located in an area of tens of square kilometres. We've crossed national borders, we've done exercises indoors, we've hand-delivered a variety of materials. And we've never, as far as I know, spread the virus during these exercises. So if we need military operations in this environment, we can do it successfully. Keeping the daily routine is ultimately as difficult for us as it is for the rest of society. But we have really learned that the daily disclosure of true facts, the explanation of decisions, is extremely important. The one-day delay is always well below the rumours of this difference, which is the most important lesson.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U50	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Lt-Gen Martin Herem, thank you for your very thorough and meaningful report. My question concerns ethics and value building in the Defence Forces. In 2018, when the Code of Ethics of the Defence Forces was updated, it was said that Estonia's defence capabilities depend on the level of morals of the Defence Forces, as defence forces and especially their leaders in their daily activities are guided by the values that are stated in the Code. It was found that more monitoring should be carried out as to how these values recorded in the Defence Forces Code are reflected in the daily activities of the Defence Forces, as well as how these values are passed on to conscripts. It is clear that the Defence Forces play a major role in raising loyal citizens, including by providing Estonian as a national language to non-Estonians. Do you consider the current activities to be sufficient to implement the Code of Ethics of the Defence Forces and to promote the value of young conscripts? If not, what should be done? Do you also see greater opportunities for cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, which, for example, organises a national value programme that deals directly with ethics and youth value education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U52	Thank you. Last week, I was presented with a complex study of conscripts, which shows the attitude of conscripts to military service, national defence, as well as their responsibility to act as a reservist. The positive attitude of conscripts to what they do in military service has increased considerably in 2018 and 2019. We have paid quite a lot of attention to making sure that a conscript citizen understands as much as possible why he is in the ministry and why he is doing something. In addition to all other ethics, they must be made clear on their responsibility. I am pleased with the results we have achieved. This is also demonstrated by many other indicators. The drastic reduction in the dropout rate of conscripts, less than 5% compared to more than 15% a few years ago, is not linked to a significant improvement in the health of conscripts or conscripts, but rather to a better understanding of why they have to do something. It's a moral question. This, too, proves that we are on the right track. Is that enough? No, it's not. Tomorrow is the day of information by the Commander of the Defence Forces, where I will talk to the commanders of the units, where I will present the following activities, including activities that have so far been carried out too little. So we can significantly develop the work, and we also have our own metrics for it. As far as cooperation is concerned, the University of Tartu is our main partner when we talk about complex research. Once again, these studies, as well as other studies, are the main basis for shaping the activities of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U53	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U54	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question was also more to the Minister, but you are certainly familiar with the Estonian defence industry and the Estonian Defence Industries Association and are in contact with them. My question is: how has the current crisis affected the supply of the Estonian defence industry? Have they been damaged, or have they been slowed down in connection with the global lockdown? I am thinking of both foreign contracts and contracts with the Estonian Defence League. How does the defence industry emerge from the current crisis? And the second question is how are the vaccinations of the conscripts and the command of the Defence Forces organized. I understand that the Allied units that are present in Estonia already have vaccinations in most of these countries. But what about the vaccination of our leadership?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U55	Thank you. I cannot point out anything significant that the pandemic has prevented from cooperating with the Defence Industry Association. Of course, on a daily basis, this significantly inhibits the development of a steady state! But something remarkable to make sure there's something really missing, I can't point it out. In a broader picture, it can be said that the supply of new weapons R20 hail was delayed due to a pandemic. Once again, the pandemic slows down and complicates processes, requires more resources, including time, but there is nothing really missing. Now for the vaccination. Since the beginning of December, the Defence Forces have set priorities for which members of the Defence Forces or staff should be given priority vaccination. When the vaccines arrive in the Defence Forces, priority group 1 will be taken, which was originally a medical team, then all those who cannot work from a distance, who must work in the troops. These include sensor operators and stewards, the next coming conscripts, their squad leaders, and their group elders. I dare say that if we get another batch of vaccines at the end of this month, it's time for the conscripts and their superiors. The aim is to reduce the spread of the virus where this threat is greatest and to achieve the best possible situation for the Spring Storm exercise so that we have as few people as possible left out. The question above was whether vaccination was compulsory. The only order I've issued is that you have to vaccinate quickly by priority group. If there are people in these groups who do not agree with the vaccination, then they will go to the end of the line and we will give them vaccination either later than they agree or never. We have done a risk analysis in the Defence Forces on the various positions where people should be vaccinated. After all, we're sending people to international military operations who have to get certain vaccines first. Without it, we're not sending them anywhere. And for international cooperation, it is important that certain people are also vaccinated against the corona virus. This means that, at some point in time, we will probably change our job instructions and make vaccination against certain viruses, including coronavirus, compulsory in many positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U56	Thank you! Henn Põllamaas, please! Good Henn, I'm afraid we can't hear you. We're gonna put you on hold, try to get back in touch with you, we really can't hear you right now. Let's take Kristina Shmigun-Vähi next. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Defence Forces. I have a question for you. I've done tactically very cleverly, put myself in line early, and I can now ask you, of the will of fate. I had the honour of going to Tapa on Defence Campus a few years ago, and this whole campus made a very good impression. But there was a fact that made me think. And it was that the standards of the physical ability test were consistently lowered so that Estonian young people would qualify for the Defence Forces at all. In other words, we are lowering standards so that our young people can serve in the Defence Forces. I believe you agree with me that it is frightening. I ask you as Head of the Defence Forces: what must Estonia do to ensure that the physical capacity of Estonian young people grow and that the standards of the Defence Forces can be met by any healthy and physically healthy young person?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U58	Thank you. I have been involved in various working groups that have discussed youth sport. And I am always prepared to discuss this subject, but I do not want to teach anyone how to do it outside the Estonian Defence Forces. In the Defence Forces, we see that the physical form by which the conscripts enter the military service is rather mediocre. And we can see that during military service, it will heal considerably. We have quite specific information that young people in poor physical condition are improving their abilities. At the same time, top athletes, or otherwise very high-end athletes, are likely to lose in their own business, for their overall physical abilities, I can't say for sure. But in general, the athletic form of conscripts improves. This is why, over the next three years, we will invest over EUR 10 million in sports infrastructure in the Defence Forces and why we will hire additional sports instructors and physical therapists. We want to improve sports. And our goal is not to bring conscripts into some kind of superform during military service, but to give them the right attitude, skills and knowledge to do sport even after military service, at least as long as a person is on the rapid response lists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U59	General, your scheduled time has passed, but we are still trying to get in touch with Henn Põlluaasa, because he was in the order of the questions you will be asked. Let's see if we can make it. Henn Põllamaas, please! Now, however, Henn will not be able to communicate with the Põlluaasa. Hennult really has to ask him to check his Internet connection, because we haven't had any connection problems with anyone else. I hope Henn Põlluaas can ask the lieutenant general right after this report. Thank you, Lieutenant General, for your presentation and your answer to questions. We're moving on. Next is Indrek Kannik, Director of the International Centre for Defence Studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U60	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister of Defence! Mr President of the Defence Forces! I am pleased that the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu decided to hold a debate on the state's military defence and sustainable development. I am grateful that the International Centre for Defence Research was involved in this debate. We were asked to talk about the regional security situation. The following report shall consist of four parts. The first is to describe the Russian policy and the actions of the Russian authorities and the resulting threats to Estonia and our allies. In the second part, I am talking about the importance of allies in tackling threats. The third is also about the People's Republic of China, which is much stronger in our region over the last ten years. And in the fourth, I will very briefly address other threats to Estonia's security and stability. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The 1990s following the collapse of the Soviet Union were years of hope in Western relations with Russia. Unfortunately, the positive period remained short and since Vladimir Putin became President of Russia on 31 December 1999, Russia's development has been in the opposite direction to democratic values. The first half of the 2000s was spent by the Russian regime on domestic cleaning. Most of the free press was destroyed and a political system was created where the actual opposition did not even get into Parliament. Since the second half of the 2000s, there has also been a significant change in Russian foreign policy. The transversal ideology was confrontation with the West. This was followed by the war against Georgia in 2008 and, from 2014, essentially the war against Ukraine until now. Today, Russia's foreign policy is also a cornerstone against the West. The Russian leadership does not see that Russia can significantly strengthen its position in the world in a situation where there is a complete West in some sense. The Russian leadership is convinced that military capabilities are the main means of establishing themselves in the world. The best comparison is provided by statistics on the proportion of military expenditure in total central government expenditure. According to the Stockholm Institute for International Peace Studies (SIPRI), this figure in Russia was 6.9% in 1998 and increased to 14.8% in 2016, i.e. more than twice as high by 2016. It is true that the economic crisis caused by the aggression against Ukraine has led to a slight decline by 2019 (to 11.4%), but this figure is still very high. By comparison, the US had a figure of 9.4% in 2019, China had 5.4%, Estonia had 5.3% and the United Kingdom had a figure of 4.5%. With this money, Russia has managed to significantly modernise its army. In the last decade, Russia has returned to the plans of the Cold War, which provided for a full-scale military conflict with NATO. The priority direction for the development of the army has been clearly west. Since the war in Ukraine, Russia has created six new divisions on the west side and significantly renewed arms. The deployment of calibre and Iskander missile systems is a good example of developments over the last decade. Russia has made its training system significantly more effective, military exercises and participants have increased. In the second half and autumn of the summer of 2021, another major exercise will take place in Zapad. As this exercise is taking place in the immediate vicinity of our borders, it is clear that the threat to the security of us and our neighbours will also increase during this period. During this kind of exercise, when the units of the potential enemy are essentially on constant alert and also in close proximity to our borders, the time of the advance warning will be considerably reduced and will inevitably increase the sense of danger. All the more so since Russia's major exercises have doubled into military operations. In 2008, the exercise was followed by the Kavkaz aggression against Georgia, in 2015 by the Centr military operation in Syria. This year, instability in Belarus also adds uncertainty. A considerable part of Zapad's exercise is expected to take place on Belarusian territory. If the Belarusian opposition were to be able to bring people back to the streets and pressurize Lukashenko during the spring and summer, then there is an increased chance that Russia will use the lesson to increase the permanent presence of its troops in Belarus. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The economic crisis caused by the aggression against Ukraine, the ensuing western sanctions and the fall in oil prices did not come to an end in Russia before the COVID-19 crisis. Russia's GDP, which according to the World Bank, amounted to USD 2292 billion in 2013, fell to USD 1276 billion, or almost half by 2016. By 2019, GDP grew to USD 1700 billion, which is only 74% of the 2013 figure. In 2020, the numbers returned to decline. It is clear that this long and deep economic crisis cannot fail to affect the defence budget. At the same speed that Russia managed to modernise its army in the last decade, this will not succeed in the next decade. At the same time, the military budget, together with internal security, is the two areas that are promoted. The economic downturn has also led to greater dissatisfaction with the political regime among the Russian people. This is also the main reason why internal security is preferable. Since there is no significant improvement in the economic situation, it is likely that the regime will increasingly be forced to rely on a repressive apparatus and a very significant part of the energy of the Russian regime will go to the consolidation of its own power. In the West, much has been discussed historically and it is still being discussed whether a weak Russia could be even more dangerous to the rest of the world than a strong Russia. Perhaps translated into today's language: could the Russian leadership take another military operation against one of their neighbours to solve their internal problems? With the annexation of Crimea, Putin managed to increase its popularity considerably. However, the history of recent decades shows the opposite. If Russia has gone badly economically, there has been no strength to harass its neighbours in the military. Both the attack on Georgia and Ukraine was taken at a time when the Russian economy was doing outstandingly well. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Yes, the Russian economy is in crisis, but it is still in better shape than the 1980s. in the 1990s. Therefore, there is no reason to believe that Russia is about to have a revolution or a complete collapse. Rather, there is reason to take into account the crisis that is still quite long. As a result, major changes in Russia's foreign policy are not to be expected. Russia's policy is not changing on the important issues that led to the crisis in relations between Russia and the West. Russia is not planning to leave occupied Eastern Ukraine, Abkhazia, South Ossetia or even less annexed Crimea. Moscow's attitude towards Ukraine and Georgia has not changed despite the fact that the Ukrainian and Georgian governments have shown, for their part, a very considerable willingness to compromise. On the contrary, the media controlled by the Russian authorities are systematically speculating on a new attack in Eastern Ukraine with a view to expanding already occupied territories. Mr President! The Russians know that they cannot compete with the West as a whole. As a result, there is an attempt to create mistrust and conflict between the Western allies. This is not new in Russian politics. Even during the Cold War, the United States and Europe, NATO and the European Union and the countries of the European Union were actively engaged in creating and inciting disputes. In European countries, so-called peace fighters were financed, whose main slogans called for the end of the US military presence in Europe. The new administration of the United States has created the ground to significantly reduce and control the differences within the West. This will not be easy, because there are still many contradictions. Trade issues are still up. Several European allies are not enthusiastic about the increase in defence spending that the United States expects of them. But at least the chemistry between the heads of state is considerably better. If relations between the United States and the great powers of Europe really work out, then it will undoubtedly be an outstanding setback for Russia. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Russia's toolbox contains a number of other tools, in addition to military tools, such as information war and influence. Estonia has experienced since the 1990s that we have been accused of discrimination against the Russian-speaking minority and of Nazi embezzlement. However, most Western countries have not been aware of the problem until the last decade. This makes some sense because it was only in the 2000s that Russia expanded its geography in this respect. The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted new forms of information war. Last spring, when the pandemic was a new and unknown phenomenon in Europe, Russia launched the so-called medical aid project. Medical supplies were transported to Italy by Russian military transport aircraft, followed by a convoy of KAMAZs dressed with Russian flags carrying this equipment through half of Italy to Bergamo near Rome. A few weeks later, however, Italian officials admitted to the La Stampa newspaper that 80% of the equipment was useless. The same tone also characterises the so-called vaccine diplomacy. I am not competent to assess the medical properties of Sputnik V, but it is clear that Russia lacks the capacity to produce enough Sputnik even to vaccinate its citizens, even at a more or less satisfactory pace. Now, if you look specifically at Estonia, Russian propaganda, which creates doubts about vaccines produced in the West, is causing irreparable damage, above all, to the Russian-speaking population here. People looking at Russian propaganda channels did not dare to be vaccinated with Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Moderna vaccine, and waiting on Sputnik's face for a large white ship, which will most likely never arrive, or if it does, it will be a grey rubber boat instead of a large white ship. Mr President! The Western world's chances of changing Russia are limited. Russia, like other countries, can change at the will of its citizens, or even of the elite. At any cost, attempts to communicate with them are interpreted by the Russians as a weakness and can lead to an embarrassing failure, as the recent visit by Borrell to Moscow showed. Counter-terrorism cooperation has largely remained one-sided. It is likely to be naive to expect effective cooperation in the areas of environmental protection and the green turn. Of course, communication with Russia must be kept open, also during the Cold War, but in this case it makes sense to talk about specific issues with their own specific objectives. Talking simply for the sake of speaking is almost certainly being used selfishly. In a situation where the West's ability to change Russia's behaviour is limited, it must be guaranteed that it itself will be strong enough to make the deterrence work. In this respect, the picture is, of course, significantly better than in 2014. The West has perceived Russia as a threat and acted in this direction. The placement of NATO eFP units in the Baltic States and Poland is certainly the kind of thing that a potential aggressor must take into account. An important step forward is also the increase in military expenditure in most NATO Member States. Although it is clear that collective defence is vital for a country the size of Estonia, our own activities are also very important. Our own powers are also part of collective defence. In order to ask the allies for greater bet, we must also be prepared to contribute more. Lithuania and Poland have announced their plans to raise defence spending to 2.5% of GDP by 2030. There is reason to ask whether the security situation in Estonia and Latvia is better. I'd rather not. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is clear that the next few decades will be the number one security threat for Estonia, especially due to geographical proximity. However, we must also consider that there is an equal and rather higher risk for the West as a whole in the People's Republic of China. Russia and China's leadership have a much similar mindset and behaviour, but China is more dangerous than Russia in the second and higher leagues than the economy, and consequently in the West as a whole. China's policy has changed considerably during the term of Chairman Xi Jinping, both in foreign and domestic policy. Foreign policy has developed a public desire to impose itself. In the case of the neighbours, this has led to concrete military steps; in the case of the more distant countries, the initial attempts are limited to establishing their own value space, which, of course, is also very dangerous for us. In the direction of Japan and Taiwan, the pressure is still largely limited to maritime and air borders. Japan and Taiwan have bilateral defence agreements with the United States, which is why China continues to be relatively cautious in their direction. On the other hand, in the case of South Asian countries, Beijing is increasingly aggressive. In the South China Sea, China has taken control of a number of territories which, by decision of international maritime arbitration, belong to the Philippines. The modernisation of the Chinese armed forces will take place at an even faster pace and the process will be better covered with resources than in Russia and will draw the attention of Estonia's important allies, especially the United States. Attention is materialised in the form of the units necessary to balance China's increasing military capacity. As it hampers the choices of the allies to respond to Russia's aggressive behaviour in Europe, we will come back to the fact that the US expects European allies to assume greater responsibility for their security. China has also changed its domestic policy. The moderately authoritarian system of the end of the 20th century and the first decade of this century, with hope for further positive development, has now become a rather rigid authoritarian system. Chairman Xi Jinping changed the laws and has been given the opportunity to remain in office for the rest of his life. The human rights of Uighurs in Xinjiang are brutally violated. Most human rights experts believe that violations are already classified as genocide. This decision was taken in February by the Canadian Parliament, which indeed classified what was happening as genocide. In the case of Hong Kong, in addition to civil and human rights, China has clearly violated the Hong Kong Transfer Agreement with the United Kingdom in 1984, which provided for Hong Kong's autonomy until 2047. The human rights situation in China as a whole has also deteriorated. The number of political prisoners has increased, as have restrictions on the Internet and social media. In the case of China, both the West as a whole and Estonia must take into account that too much economic integration can make us dependent and vulnerable. It should be taken into account that almost all major Chinese investments are controlled by the Chinese state and the Communist Party. China's private capital and businessmen are not free in their behaviour. As in the case of Russia, the West has become more clearly aware of the risks in China in recent years. President Donald Trump's administration clearly changed the Chinese policy in the United States and all the signs show that the current administration does not intend to take China a softer approach, either. Slower, but also European countries are moving in the same direction. On several occasions, Estonia has experienced aggressive pressure from China, both politically and economically. In 2011, President Toomas Hendrik Ilves informally met with the Tibetan religious leader, the Dalai Lama, after which China suspended ministerial meetings with Estonia for several years. The restriction was lifted only after Estonia's statement, which could also be interpreted as an apology in 2014. In the Estonian media, China and Huawei have organised several PR campaigns that try to convince people of the exemplary human rights situation in Xinjiang or Huawei's independence from China. In Estonia, too, the perception of risks with China has clearly improved. The best examples are the recent conviction of a scientist who worked secretly for the military intelligence of the People's Republic of China, but also the decision of the Estonian Government to take Estonia's participation in the 17+1 summit below the Prime Minister's or the President's level. The 17+1 format is clearly aimed at weakening the unity of the EU and the less we are involved in this format, the better for us and for the European Union. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Russia, our allied relations, and China are our main security threats. But of course they're not the only ones. Terrorism has not disappeared anywhere in Europe. If the situation in the Middle East explodes again, it will rob our allies of their resources. Too strong an internal confrontation of society is a problem. Political competition and freedom of expression are, of course, positive and essential for democracy, but a rhetorical confrontation that is too strong will destroy society and interfere with the focus on external threats as well. In the example of the United States, we have seen this clearly over the last few years. At a time when the Western world has largely focused on the corona apandemia over the past year, the conventional and traditional dangers have not disappeared. The world around us is quite nervous and unpredictable. The modernisation of at least some of the European allies' forces is likely to slow down due to the economic pressure caused by the pandemic. All the more we have to do ourselves to cope with the deteriorating security environment over the last 10 to 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U61	Thank you very much, Mr. Kannik. You have questions too. Begin Anti-Semiamets. Mr. Semimets, please press on the microphone, let's try to talk. I can't hear you right now. There's a kotermann out there, but not Mr. Halfway. We'll put you on the waiting list. We'll try to make things right this way. Next thing you know, Marko Storm is asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for your specific and well-observed presentation. The question concerns our allies and whom, if not the representative of the Centre for Defence Studies, should be asked. We all understand that, given Estonia's size and military capabilities, we can best ensure our security through allied relations and, of course, by contributing to these relations. We can be proud that in NATO, Estonia has a good reputation and our contribution to the defence budget has been set as an example by the United States. Will the change of the United States Head of State and the political developments taking place in Europe also change the policy of the allies' presence? I mean the bases of the Allied Forces in Germany, Poland and elsewhere, also in Estonia? What is your position: would it be useful for the Estonian state to increase the presence of the allies resident here? And would we be able to do that? And most importantly, what can we do ourselves to bring about these changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U63	Thank you very much for your question. It is clear that Estonia will benefit from the largest possible presence of the United States of America in Europe in any case. This gives us additional security guarantees, and the more U.S. units in our region are, the better. I believe that in the current US administration, at least in the short term, there is no risk that its units will be reduced in Europe. As we know, the previous administration had a plan to withdraw parts of the units from Germany. It has been suspended. I believe that our Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also work every day to increase the presence of our allies in this region. Let's hope this happens in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U64	Now let's try to get back in touch with Andi's Polish forest. Please, Anti Division! We're still sorry, Anti, can't hear you. There's some kind of sound problem with your connection. Let's see if we can fix the connection from here. I'm sorry, I can't... There's some kind of sound coming through, but unfortunately, it's not the kind of horn you can read about. Anti, you can ask Mr. Kannik your question in writing. We're moving on right now. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Waitress! I have a question that the Centre for Defence Research has made two interesting reports in 2018 and 2019 on maritime protection and air protection. One is "To the Seas Again" and the other is "Air Defence of the Baltic States." How do you think we're doing with the practical implementation of the letter there? And what new capacity-building reports is the Defence Research Centre doing now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U66	When we talk about the security of the Estonian maritime area, there has already been a lot of talk here today. And I agree with the previous speakers on this subject. What we have had in the area of maritime security for 25 years is, in fact, somewhat embarrassing from the point of view of the Estonian state. This problem has been repeatedly tried, but the result has not been achieved. It has become entangled in contradictions between the various authorities. Well, now it has started to be more serious, and I very much hope that this time we will be able to achieve a result. The Centre for Defence Studies, however, deals with a number of studies in this field. It is likely that in the near future, a study of our cooperation with the United Kingdom will come in a new situation after Brexit. We will explore what military capabilities different countries can offer. In the same way, in the field of defence, we are also conducting research into the defence plans relating to Estonia's field of deterrence, but we cannot say more about them here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U67	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Director of the Centre for Defence Research. In the last pandemic year, a series of words such as "uncertain factors" have been sounding more and more in the public domain. It is meant that it is not possible to predict everything. In conclusion, you also said that the world around us is unpredictable, and the more we have to make our own effort to cope. My question arises from this: what do you say to civilians, how can we do more ourselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U69	When we talk about a pandemic, how people can work harder on their own, many doctors have spoken. But in the field of defence and national security, the most useful thing is for people to be moderately confident if we weren't too nervous, so we'd be afraid of the first rumor that the whole situation is out of control. I think that such mature confidence will also guarantee the maturity and better functioning of our country. This is where we can best go forward. We shouldn't be freaking out about every little thing. Unfortunately, this happens quite often in Estonia. If you look at the Estonian media, especially the social media, we can see that the irritation of a very small matter can be very great. This should be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U70	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Indrek! My question was actually meant for the Commander of the Defence Forces, but I dare ask you that too. I've been discussing these things with you before when you were in the Department of Defense dealing directly with development issues like this. My question is on the same subject that has been discussed today: the formation of a state fleet. What is your opinion, as a strong specialist in this field, on the distribution of their tasks and responsibilities? It is now divided between different authorities. In addition to the duty of maritime border guard, Estonia also has the duty of lake border guard. How could these two separate responsibilities be planned, both administratively and in other respects, in terms of management, training, equipment? How could its development take place? And when we talk about sea border protection and surveillance being brought into the administration of the Ministry of Defence, does it not make sense to review the whole concept of border control and border protection? The transition between the maritime and lake border guards means that only 135.6 kilometres remain on the land border and that is then the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. Isn't it worth changing this concept? You and I have discussed this concept together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U72	Thank you for your question. I tend to think that putting the main responsibility for the entire Estonian maritime border on the Ministry of Defence would be a sensible step. But do you want to talk about the whole border? I have not dealt with these issues much in recent years to give a comprehensive answer here. I believe that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior can best resolve this in the course of their discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U73	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Some time ago, in this very hall, Lt-Gen Martin Herem, the head of the Defence Forces, said that vaccination would be compulsory in the future. At the same time, as Prime Minister, Kaja Kallas has said that there cannot be such an obligation. Jaak Aab has said that even indirect influence is not allowed. We also know that Tanel Kiik has said right here in the hall that we have introduced vaccines conditionally, they have not actually passed the test period that has been established in normal practice. Here's my question. According to § 18 of the Constitution, no one may be subjected to medical or scientific tests against his or her free will. What is your assessment of whether or not compulsory vaccination is in accordance with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U75	Thank you for your question. The Commander of the Defence Forces noted that, in the future, it would be necessary to make vaccination compulsory in certain positions. I think that if there are some posts in the structure of the Estonian Defence Forces, where vaccination is compulsory, so that these people can do their job and that the Estonian state can be properly protected, there is nothing unconstitutional about it. But I am not a lawyer, and with this question, you can turn to the Chancellor of Justice or other lawyers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U76	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U77	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! My question concerns the Estonian-Russian border agreement or, rather, its lack. How do you assess the current situation? How does the process around the border agreement affect Estonian-Russian relations? What can we do in this border treaty saga now? How would it be wise to act?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U78	Thank you for your question. The Estonian-Russian border agreement is a story with a very long history. As we remember, for the first time, it was signed over 20 years ago. The second signature took place just before the beginning of the Ukrainian war, and after that the ratification process was held again. Of course, it would be good if we had fixed borders and a border agreement with neighbouring countries. At the same time, we are now in a situation where we have been for years. We've done it without it. I would not say that we have a tragic situation and a desperate need to make an effort towards this border agreement. We have spoken here that Russia has a very good perception. If anyone starts asking them something, it starts to force us to do this or the other, the less likely the possibility that this border agreement will come into being is likely to get. Yes, in my opinion, Estonia's various governments have basically been prepared to ratify this Treaty, but the Russian side has not taken it to the State Duma. Right now, the ball's more on their side.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U79	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U80	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I will ask again on the issues of crisis. We see that much has changed in health care, education and our daily lives. How is this corona crisis reflected in the international security picture? Has anything changed, or is the corona such a superficial bubble, and the force lines in the background the same? Or has something changed in connection with the vaccine or the possibility of warfare or meeting opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U81	I think it's too early to assess whether the changes that brought about the corona will last forever or are temporary. What we have seen with regard to the changes that are taking place due to the corona is that both Russia and China have tried to increase their impact, particularly in those countries that are outside Europe or that are generally not highly developed countries. Even in Europe, there have been these experiments. I believe that these tests in Europe will not have much effect in the long term. However, it can be said that Russia and China, particularly China, have again succeeded in achieving some progress in certain Asian, African and Latin American countries compared to the West with their vaccine policies. This is something that needs to be worked on. But the Chinese also have the same problem as the Russians: the vaccines they produce do not go far enough. And if Europe and the United States achieve a certain level of vaccination in their population, a certain percentage will be vaccinated, then there will be a chance to move forward and it is worth trying to make friends again in other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U82	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You also mentioned the Russian threat and did not consider it very likely. However, in recent months, quite a number of analyses have been published in the Russian press, claiming that there is, however, a risk that Crimea might recur, and also towards the Baltics, if possible. What is your authority's assessment of such analyses? Are they serious, or are they just a regular Russian bluff and information operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U84	An information operation and a psychological war are actually going on all the time by the Russians. From time to time, there have been stories in the Russian press that Crimea can be repeated in the Baltics. If we recall the statements made by Zirinovsky in the 1990s, where the borders of the Russian state must extend everywhere, it is clear that this is nothing new. Of course, I believe that the state institutions in Estonia, as well as the research institutions involved in security policy, are closely monitoring the situation in Russia. However, to say now that Estonia is facing an imminent military threat from Russia in the coming months would be an exaggeration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U85	Thank you. In the meantime, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that we only have 3.5 minutes left to ask questions. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U86	Thank you very much. Good waitress! A few moments ago, I understood your speech and your assertions that we do not have a border agreement with Russia. Do I get this right or do I get this wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U87	Thank you for your question. The Estonian Government has twice signed a border agreement with Russia, but the agreement has not entered into force. If you are wondering whether Tartu peace is valid, then of course the state of Estonia recognises the validity of Tartu peace in my understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U88	Andres Metsoja, please! Andres Metsoja, we can't hear you. Maybe we should just take the Anti-Poland Forest in the meantime and try to get Andres Metsoja back on screen. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U89	Dear Vice-Chairman, Honourable waitress! Lately dealt with in depth... [[We're breaking up.]] At the moment, it seems that the ban on Huawei and these 5G devices has been paused. Do you think it would be important to restrict these technologies and what are the risks if we introduce them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U90	Yes, as I mentioned in the presentation, too much economic association with the large companies of the People's Republic of China and the People's Republic of China is dangerous for the Estonian state. In the field of technology, and especially in the field of technology of this kind, such as 5G, it is even more dangerous as it poses additional security risks. In this sense, Huawei should be restricted in Estonia, especially in the 5G area. As far as I know, it's only temporarily suspended, and I think the Government of the Republic will soon discuss how to proceed on the 5G issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U91	Now, let's try again: Andres Metsoja, please! Still can't hear you, let's take Raivo Tamme in the meantime. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U92	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! On the question of Ivari Padar, I had a further question about our border agreement. Is it known, for example, that there are such forces or movements in Japan to make a border agreement with Russia? So, what's the status quo, let's do this border deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U93	Thank you for your question. The previous Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzoa Abe, was very active in questioning the Evil Islands. If you use Japanese terminology, it's a Northern Territory. This was one of the main reasons why Abe met President Putin repeatedly during his term of office. The Japanese wouldn't have wanted to keep the status quo, but according to all the signs, they were prepared to compromise. There has been a so-called 2+2 option on the table for a long time, that some islands go to Russia and some to Japan, but Russia has not discussed the subject in substance. They have not considered it necessary to have a substantive discussion with the Japanese on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U94	Let's try again. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U95	Yeah, I'm not gonna give up. Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U96	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U97	Thank you. Good waitress! A national and global pandemic is actually a good cover for some potential aggressors. My question to you concerns Belarus. Should we be more concerned about developments in Belarus today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U98	Thank you for your question. Yeah, we should. As mentioned earlier, the Zapad 2021 exercise theoretically offers an unlimited range of scenarios for Russia to increase its impact in Belarus. Zapad's exercise is always a considerable part, a very large part, of the territory of Belarus. And when additional military units from Russia arrive there, and if the Russian Government considers it necessary, they will be able to find a number of arguments to remain there for a longer period after training. As of today, Lukashenko seems to have managed to control the demonstrations, at least temporarily, to some extent. But, as has been said, if during spring and summer the opposition should again be able to exert more pressure on Lukashenko, I think the Russians have all sorts of scenarios on the table. However, we saw last autumn that theoretically there were military intervention options available to the Russians, but they were quite cautious. They sensed quite well that Russia's military intervention in the events in Belarus on the Lukashenko side would not create a special love for the Russian troops who would have come there. I don't know if this attitude has changed significantly over the last six months, but at least last year they were quite careful about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U99	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. The time for questions is over. Let's move on to the negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. On the proposal of the National Defence Committee, I propose to the Riigikogu that the representatives of the political groups first take the floor. I would also ask the speakers to signal if they would like an extra three minutes at the beginning of their speech. Madis Milling, on behalf of the group? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U100	Five plus three minutes, please! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank everyone for this very important and interesting debate. It is a pleasure to note that national defence in Estonia continues to be a cross-political issue, and no political party is questioning the necessity of defending the state in this Chamber today. But I do want to talk about the political leadership of national defence. To begin with, the story of the disappearance of military service in a neighboring country. The power became a party who had taken the heart of standing up for the farmers and freed all the farmers from the military service. The next party found that students shouldn't go to the service either. The third party freed all young fathers from military service. And so on and so forth. Eventually, there was no one else to send to serve. Not the most brilliant example of national defence political leadership. It is worth reminding here that Estonia too has been flirting back in time with the idea of losing military service and creating a wage army. Luckily, the mind came to its senses. The will to score in day politics is all-powerful, but national defence must always see a bigger picture, look ahead at at least ten years and sometimes predict the unpredictable. Or let's look further into history. We all know one corporal chancellor who started to think he was smarter than his generals. That story didn't end well either. Estonia is a democratic country where defence forces are subject to civil control. However, civil control does not have to mean that politicians should take charge of national defence from the generals. It is up to our politicians to hold a debate, but here is a very small step to say how and with which the country should be protected. The speaker himself is not free from this sin. At the same time, it can be argued that there is more national defence expert opinion in the previous and present Riigikogu than in many previous compositions. You can only feel good about that. Today, we can safely claim that both the previous and the current Committee on National Defence have focused on results and compromises, and that day-to-day policy has, as a rule, been left at the door. Ladies and gentlemen, Politicians have one wonderful quality: the ability to start to consider themselves to be an expert in all world affairs at one point. Well, we all want to look smarter and more talented than we really are. The path of a politician is lined with temptations. After all, it is indescribably tempting to buy a new and shiny missile for the Defence Forces, to show it at the parade on the anniversary of the Republic in February and to announce a month later before the Riigikogu elections that I bought you this rocket, our party bought this missile. Estonia is not such a rich country that it can afford emotional shopping. National defence cannot be managed like a local government, where a campaign will put down asphalt and cut through tapes before the elections. Somehow, we don't tend to tell the hospital's chief physician how he should operate the sick or what brand of breathing apparatus he buys. It's about trust. We trust professionals who serve in our defence forces. It can't be that we trust a little bit and not a little bit. National defence is a whole. It can be developed by making a series of decisions that, when taken alone, are correct, but if there is no overall view, the deadlock will still be reached. The result of this deadlock is hollow national defence, where words and structures are large, but there is a lack of real fighting capacity. The uncombatable paper army is also useless as a deterrent. This is therefore not just a question of what we need to protect Estonia, but also of what we can really create and sustain with the resources allocated to defence. Strategic planning of national defence must be comprehensive. All needs must be considered in the light of opportunities at once and together to decide both what we are developing and what we are not developing despite the need for resources. Otherwise, if we approach all individual issues separately, there is a risk that global level will be achieved in the area currently on the agenda and that the entire resource will be spent there, but the remaining areas will be completely neglected. The best expression of political will is the defence budget. Lt. Johannes Kert, a colleague who left us, said: "The only thing that cannot be learned today by calculating is what a person in his heart feels about one thing or another. But I'm saying military science is an exact science, and here we can calculate our tasks beautifully. " He also said that we were very proud that we contributed 2% of GDP and were brought as an example to all of us in NATO, but now our country is about the sum of money in NATO from behind. Indeed, the percentage of substantive defence capabilities does not affect gross domestic product, because no rocket or armoured vehicle can be purchased for a percentage. Estimates of how much more and better-armed defence could be created, of course, are available to the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces. What exactly and in what order to create, of course, must be determined by the military assessment of the Defence Forces. For how much money, this is a matter of political choice. But the challenges we face are not the only ones of military defence. Speaking of defence and security, we cannot overlook the viral crisis. Yeah, it's a health crisis in nature, but when we look at the information operations that accompany it, we can say that we are already at war in the Information War. The Kremlin's aggressive and unfortunately successful information operations to disparage Western vaccines and activate the corona sceptics are no longer news to anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, In this complex world, it is not easy to maintain common sense and the capacity for pragmatic analysis in the almighty outburst of information. But that's exactly what national defence needs. In summary, I call on everyone to have more confidence in our Defence Forces and defense planners. Finally, a suitable quote from the reserve general Neeme Field: "In the current era of plurality of truths, time must always be taken and the background of the reviewer examined. We also have experts who believe that posing with a farmer in a photo makes a little farmer of himself. " Wisdom in developing national defence for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U101	Jaak Juske on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Only this year will the Republic of Estonia have real independence in 103 years of history more than these cursed years of occupation. This reminds us of how fragile Estonia's independence is. And at the same time, as a country and a nation, we have learned from our history. Estonia is no longer alone, as we were in 1939. In terms of security, we can feel confident as a member of the NATO Alliance. Collective protection, however, requires the existence and development of an initial independent defence capacity. Today, there has been talk in this Chamber about how much of GDP our defence costs should be. However, GDP is known to go up and down depending on good and bad times in the economy. So it is far more important that we have the necessary military capabilities and an agreement on how and when to achieve them. Social Democrats support the maintenance of Estonian national defence costs at least 2% of the GDP, plus the costs related to the reception of allies. However, the next step should be to achieve a cross-party agreement involving these essential military capabilities for the development of independent defence capabilities, which will need to be financed by additional resources for defence in the next decade. But more important than specific budget figures is Estonia's reputation, good relations with allies. There has been a very big step in this respect in a positive direction. It wasn't very long ago, when our supreme leader of national defence, the President of the Republic had to state in an unprecedented statement that the government of the Republic in office is a threat to the security of the Estonian state. The leaders of a government party in those days insulted some of our allies almost every week. Fortunately, this government has become history. We are a very small country in a geopolitically complex region. We can contribute a large part of Estonia's state budget to our independent defence capacity, but we alone would not last very long if we attacked the enemy. Thus, strong allies are a matter of life and death for us. One foolish word can break up a good relationship that has been built over long years. NATO was, is and will remain the cornerstone of our national defence. It is important that the allies be present in Estonia today and in the future as firmly as possible, because strong deterrence is the best guarantee that Estonia's peaceful development will continue. Regional cooperation with other Baltic countries and Nordic countries is also important, which in military terms form a common space. Joint defence procurement and development of the North Division are important keywords here. An equally important keyword is wide-ranging national defence. This means that national defence is not a distant and complex issue, but every Estonian citizen knows that he has a specific role and task in protecting Estonia. The teaching of national defence in schools is an important part of shaping this knowledge. This should, in my opinion, be a compulsory subject, which, however, requires an adequate and competent teaching frame. But today, each of us has the chance to become a member of the Defence League. I know that a lot of colleagues in this Chamber have been good allies of defence for years. I myself joined the Defence League a year ago. The Defence League, which brings together volunteers and women, has a solid place and role in our national defence. Finally. The military insurance of Estonia's independence is the daily work of the job that we all have to do every day together with our allies. Thus, in the next 103 years, we can say that Estonia's independence has never been broken in this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U103	Jüri Luik on behalf of the Isamaa Group! Three minutes extra time, too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen, Protecting your country is a great privilege. This honor belongs only to those nations that have their own country, and during the Soviet occupation the Estonian could only dream of it. In 1991, we had to rebuild our national defence from virtually nothing. Today, we have achieved a modern military defence system that fully meets the best principles of NATO members. We have achieved much, but defence does not stand still because time does not stand still. The international situation is constantly changing, the military capabilities of our opponent are evolving, and so we cannot stop for a moment. Our task, as we have heard today, is, of course, to make a possible invasion so expensive for the opponent, along with our allies, that he does not even think about it. In doing so, a number of factors need to be taken into account. Firstly, the greatest value of our defence is a broad political consensus. Yeah, from time to time, we have a heated discussion about the purchase of some weapons systems. I personally am not in favour of such debates in the political arena. But the fact is that there has never been a violation of the principle of consensus. Our continued high level of defence expenditure is, of course, an important part of this consensus. But I want to point out here that consensus is not just about consensus. A high level of defence costs is necessary given the military risks that threaten us, and this spirit of consensus between political parties is still based on the perception and desire to resist the threats that threaten us. In any case, I suggest that national defence funding remains at least at the level planned by the previous government. Why at least? It is, of course, true that, despite relatively large investments, the expenditure currently planned primarily covers maintenance of the existing structure. It is also true that 2.5% of GDP would be the optimal amount of defence costs in Estonia. If the government is ready to move in this direction, the opposition will support it without doubt. I would like to remind everyone of the fact that the allied units in Estonia's territory are of fundamental importance for Estonia's security. Just in the way of thinking: we think back to 1939 and 1940, and we imagine that the British battalion was then located on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. It's, of course, a mind game and there's a thousand reasons why it couldn't be, but I think we all understand the value of our allies being here. On the other hand, it is also very important to understand that there is a small circle of people who decide with our allies whether to come to Estonia or not. These are the same people for whom it is very important that we participate in international operations elsewhere in the world, in countries that are important to us. So the active policy of international operations and foreign missions must certainly continue. The Estonian Defence Forces are a professional mob. Our greatest value in national defence is an informed patriotic-minded citizen. Those aren't big words. This is a prerequisite for our reserve system, a guarantee of their motivation. At the same time, let's be honest, young people tomorrow are different from young people today. We must find an appropriate way to bring to them the continuity of national defence and common values. We must also take into account the important issues raised by young people, such as the environment, with which the Defence Forces are confronted in very many ways. I am very pleased that the Minister of Defence also spoke about the environmental policy of the Ministry of Defence. National Defence Studies in Estonian schools is the best way to have such a dialogue. And I stress: dialogue is important, not a monologue. The Defence League, of course, has a major role to play in preparing for the military defence of the Estonian state and in raising the will for defence, and must be fully supported. The current situation, where the leaders of the Defence League and its youth organisations are very open to innovation, is, in my opinion, the best guarantee that the Defence Union's role in our defence will continue to be high. The training of our officers and our junior officers is also extremely important for the future. They must be smart and flexible, able to operate in a constantly changing world where the external environment, social conditions, people's mental tuning, social networks and new technologies are volatile. Military education must be geared towards the future. The decision of last year to merge our Defence Forces educational institutions into a single system, the Defence Forces Academy, will certainly help. An important dimension today is the ability of the Defence Forces to work with civil society. The Defence Forces have demonstrated this ability vividly by participating in the resolution of the COVID crisis. And I really thank them for that. However, from a conceptual point of view, I would point out that when we talk about broad ground, let us not forget that military defence is a very specific activity. A self-propelled cannon is not part of any other broad-surface defence branch. Military defence has its own clear logic, must not be obscured, and must also draw out very clearly in the context of broad defence. These fundamental topics are also the complex tasks of Estonian national defence for the next few years. I wish the Fatherland Party the power to resolve them to the government, the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces. And as usual, the Fatherland is happy to participate in discussions on national defence issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with the negotiations, we need to have an extension vote. The National Defence Committee has proposed to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us now proceed to this vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Defence to extend the time of today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U106	44 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal, with 0 abstentions as well. The proposal has been supported. Let's move on with the negotiations. Next, Mr Kunnas will have the floor on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U107	More time now, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U108	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank all the performers. I'm focusing on military defense today. This does not mean that broad-based national defence is not important. On the contrary, it is so important that it deserves to be treated separately here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu as an important national issue. This could take place during our next autumn session this year. I hope that the virus situation will have improved so much by then that we can continue to deal with draft national defence law 112 and related draft laws 113 and 114 at face-to-face meetings in the National Defence Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, We would lie to ourselves if we argued that good decisions could be made in times of crisis. The choice is actually awkward: there is a choice between bad decisions and very bad ones. I do not want to argue that, in the context of the current corona crisis and the economic downturn that led to it, raising defence spending to 2.6% of GDP would be a good or a very good decision. Inevitably, it would be at the expense of other areas, it would be tax or borrowing. But what would it mean not to make that decision in the current security situation? It would be a very bad decision, or even a very bad one. The decision to increase defence expenditure should have been taken a long time ago, just after the war broke out in Ukraine. Unfortunately, this criticism is not helping us today. But it's not enough to talk about security today. That's what we've been doing all day. There's a decision to be made. This decision requires a cross-party consensus and a long-term view. In December of last year, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposed an amendment to the Riigikogu's decision on "Estonia's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035'. Its content was: replace "Protection costs are at least 2% of GDP' with "Protection costs are at least 2.6% of GDP'. In the meantime, we have not discussed this bill again in this big hall. It would be wise to do so before proceeding with the approval of the National Defence Development Plan 2021 to 2030. The new National Defence Development Plan needs a framework that responds to the current established security situation. I fear that no competent security authority will dare to come up with a prediction that it will improve in the near future. What's the money for? The breakdown of expenditure would be broadly as follows: 2% of GDP would be spent on maintaining and modernising existing military capabilities and the military structure of the Defence Forces, about 0.5% of GDP to create new military capabilities and about 0.1% of the costs of staying in Estonia and continuing the ammunition investment programme. What can and should be done with this money? We also formulated a proposal for the amendment of the same draft decision of 262 on capacity developments for additional money. It sounds like this: we create mine-watering, coastal defence and mid-ground air control capabilities and complete the development of armoured maneuver capabilities, create a tank unit, as well as near-air defence capabilities in the Defence League, increase the ability to fight night-time and conduct electronic warfare, and apply technically innovative solutions, including drones and unmanned earth vehicles. Since both the increase in defence expenditure and the main improvements in capabilities are programmed positions of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, which we applied for in the elections to realise, it is natural that, both in the government and in the opposition, we will do our utmost to implement them. In defence matters, we cooperate constructively and support all political forces that have similar objectives to us, regardless of world-view or other differences of opinion in other areas. Good Secretary of Defense, good Kalle! I fully support your idea that defence expenditure at 2.6% of GDP would be sufficient to fill the gaps in primary independent defence capabilities. It is time to put this idea into practice. But my modest support is not enough for you. This requires the decision of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance. As has already been said, a good colleague who left us early, General Johannes Kert, emphasised in his last interview, published after his death: if I were the Minister of Defence, mid-earth air control would be my number one priority. Ladies and gentlemen, We bring General Kerd into the military-political will, raise defence costs to 2.6% of GDP, and do mid-earth air control. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U110	On behalf of the Group of the Oudekki Loone Centre Party. Oudekki, you can't be seen or heard. Let's give it another try. He speaks on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U111	Hello, thank you. I hope the connection has returned now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U112	It is. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U113	Excellent! Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U114	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, such debates have tended to transform very quickly into some sort of number magic. Number 2! Put some legs down. Last year's 2%, then 2, 3, 2, 6, 6, 10... And that's how it gets out of hand. Like the protection of our country, or even the narrow development of military defence, can only be effectively measured by a percentage of the budget. The higher the number, the better the development, the more effective the defense. Let's all go home! This approach, of course, is superficial and can be dangerous. Firstly, because military defence can only develop effectively if it is packed in a broad-based national defence support cocoon. Internal security, a universal and accessible medical system, energy security, without the effective functioning of these areas, the military sector cannot develop either. So when you do number magic, you have to look at these areas. Internal security. If we're missing 300 million internal security frontier workers, police, rescuers, rescue officers' payroll in a four-year perspective, if we're afraid that if there's two fires in the southeast of the country at a time, there won't be any more commandos to the other one, then some 6% will not help us with military defense. The generation of frontier workers is ageing, there are no new ones. On the other hand, the number of people who want to go to higher education is high, but the public order does not respond. The savior's salary is so low that people will not be there; it is smaller than the Estonian average. In a crisis, whether war or not, the police and rescue are always at the forefront. Without them, there is no military defense. If we do not have trained, valued, confident staff for our future in internal security, our country will not be protected, no matter how many drones or anti-aircraft missiles we buy. Health. At the beginning of the second year of the Coronary Crisis, everyone will probably understand why it is important for defence to have a well - equipped hospital in each county. If a hospital had been wound up during a major cutting policy in Saaremaa, there would have been no integration of this famous military field hospital. The availability of medical assistance must also be ensured if a part of the country is cut off in the event of a natural disaster, pandemic or war. Thus, the reconstructions of Viljandi Hospital, Viljandi Health Centre, Hiiumaa and Järvamaa Emergency Medical Department have a national defence dimension. [[The connection's breaking up.]] ...is an investment in our defence policy. Investing in the pharmaceutical industry is... real, is an investment in defence policy. When we do number magic, let us not forget that the greater the number of years our people have lived healthy, the safer our society will be. We can only build effective military protection for healthy and well-managed people. Every cent we invest in health care has been invested in national defence at the same time. Obviously, there is no need to explain why energy policy is also a defence policy, why energy independence is part of the defence policy, both military and broad. However, our energy independence is currently under great pressure with regard to the European Union's green policy. Of course, energy sources need to be diversified, modernised. Of course, energy must be produced as clean as possible. At the same time, however, we must not forget that the ability to produce energy ourselves is a national defence issue. The functioning of our country must not depend solely on external energy sources, which makes us very easily manipulative. In the complex formula for the transformation of the oil shale sector, the defence dimension discussed today must not be left in the background. As long as we have oil shale, we need to preserve our ability to mine it and use it as an energy source, otherwise we will create ourselves unnecessary security risks. These figures clearly demonstrate that when it comes to national defence, the budget percentage auctions must be avoided: who is offering more. If anything were to be agreed, it would rather be the upper limit of the cost of direct military protection during peacetime. Otherwise, there is a very high risk of a delicate balance between military defence and the development of broad-based national defence in the event of an auction mentality. But without a wide range of national defence, the military side will be stuck in the air. And when we calculate how much we actually spend on national defence, we must not exclude internal security from this calculation, the medical system, all this wide-ranging national defence, which we actually consider to be very important. Well, what can be the major challenges of this narrower military defence in the coming years? On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to emphasise two issues. Firstly, cooperation between the military and civil sectors during peacetimes. During the pandemic, we have learned how important the specific knowledge and capabilities of the military sector are for smooth crisis management, transport on land and in the air, helicopters, logistics centres, complex logistics plans, as well as knowledge of protection against biological risks: how, when and what masks to wear, how to use protective suits and disinfectants. Unfortunately, there are a number of bureaucratic restrictions in our regime that hinder the effective functioning of this cooperation. We should remove these barriers as soon as possible. And lastly, perhaps the most important. The biggest break that the 21st century has brought to war is undoubtedly artificial intelligence and its associated lethal autonomous weapons. Step by step, such systems acquire a central place in all modern warfare strategies. Unfortunately, this development has led to great moral dangers, strengthening aggressive attitudes in society. Autonomous weapons are very simply an illusion that they will lead to fewer casualties, fewer civilian casualties. Unfortunately, in the countries targeted by the attack on autonomous weapons, this has not meant less casualties, less civilian casualties. We must not allow a future in which the argument 'but our sons and daughters will not die' would deceive political and military decision-makers, deceive the public so that people would support the wars of aggression. Let us not forget: wars of aggression are international crimes for a reason. Thus, autonomous lethal weapons must be clearly regulated by international agreements, requiring, at every level of decision-making, the responsibility of a particular person, an informed decision of a particular person. The only decision to destroy a machine that can be opposed to is the decision of a machine to destroy itself. Estonia is a successful digital state. Estonia has the capacity to produce such weapons. We have an excellent position to lead an international agreement governing these weapons systems. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U116	Thank you. Siim Kallas, please! A little extra time? Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U117	Definitely! Just in case, please. Honourable Vice President! Minister and all the other speakers! Ladies and gentlemen, Our security depends on two different components: international politics and our own military capabilities. In 1939, international politics did not support us at all, but military capabilities were considerable. But it wasn't implemented. Jüri Luik mentioned here that it would have been good if we had an English military base. Just for the sake of history, that was the plan, but the English didn't come. In 1922, an attempt was made to establish an English naval base in Estonia. But that's it. Today, we have done everything we can to be supported by international politics, and this policy is what supports our independence. We are in the European Union, on the side of its small Member State when it has security problems with third countries. We're in NATO, which we believe in. As far as military capabilities are concerned, I think this is the maximum possible. As far as possible! Estonia is a very small country. The new weapons systems bought by the United States for their budget this year will cost more than our national budget. The main military guarantor of our security is NATO, the military contingent of our allies in Estonia and other Baltic states. The previous US administration sent us a warning signal: our NATO guarantee could crumble. The new administration has confirmed the unchangeable nature of the US security policy after World War II. What about the next president? Our independence is guaranteed by a combination of international politics and military capabilities. But what does this combination have to be? Do we need to develop an independent and completely adequate military capacity? This goal is not real. Perhaps to believe that only or mainly international politics will guarantee our security? It's a dangerous illusion. How can we correctly calculate what is the relationship between international politics and our own defence capabilities? In particular, how long and to what extent do we ourselves have to endure so that international politics can help us? There is not much to do in international politics to create additional security-enhancing factors, but is our independent defence capacity sufficient to be a partner for international politics? International politics is a matter of concern. 30 years ago, there was a time in the world where there was no great military confrontation. NATO's necessity was questioned. It was very difficult for us to explain why we wanted to join NATO. We have: yes, indeed, we do not see Russia as a serious threat, perhaps Russia has achieved internal stability, perhaps, but what will happen in the future, we do not know that. We were right. Things were changing. Today there is an indiscreet military confrontation and an armaments race between the two great powers that are important to us. And let us not forget China: as mentioned in the reports here, there is a possible agreement between China and Russia. What can cause more anxiety? The vast military superiority of the United States frightens Russia, our neighbour. Fear has great eyes, but fear can cause the behavior of decision-makers to become unstable. The great generals of Eisenhower, when he was president, and the Finnish military leader Mannerheim, were always looking for ways to achieve and maintain peace. Even the last Soviet commander in Afghanistan, General Gromov, tried to use every possible means to prevent weapons collisions. We hope that the leaders of this world will also be on the same page despite the dice of weapons. For 75 years, we have lived in peace. In the first half of the 20th century, there were two great wars with a period of 20 years. Politically, a small Estonia must contribute as much as possible and as much as it depends on us to sustain world peace. That's clear. I wrote this speech inspired by talks with the missing General Kerd. He felt that in a world of uncertainness, our independent military capabilities would not move to ensure the necessary deterrence. His vision of our defense strategy fascinated me as a layman, and I don't appreciate it. But there was one message in which General Kert was extremely convinced: more resources are needed. He saw the need to start a broad discussion on increasing defence costs. I will, of course, break into an open door in some ways, because almost all previous performers said the same thing and considered it necessary. So, finally, I have nothing else to say but to support it, and we really should start this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U118	Kalle Grünthal, please! We'll give you three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitresses! I listened to your presentations today, and I have to say that they were very meaningful, constructive and thoughtful. I have one problem that I have had in my head for a long time and relates to the reason why the Force has imposed a compulsory vaccination obligation, and this is the appeal of Lieutenant General Martin Herem, the Commander of the Defence Forces, to his subordinates. In fact, there is also a disguised compulsory vaccination in other sectors, both in the public sector and in sectors with employment relations. Employers make a choice: either you vaccinate or you lose your job. It is an indirect influence, but by its very nature it is, to a certain extent, a coercion. The question is that the information that I am passing on now has reached me quite a considerable amount. And I am delighted that this fact has been confirmed today in this Chamber of the Riigikogu by the relevant authorities. Point one: I want to say that I am not against vaccination. Point two: I am against forced vaccination, whether it is imposed directly or indirectly. First of all, I want to thank Secretary of Defense Kalle Laanet, and from the very heart. When I asked him if he had given any orders to the Commander of the Defence Forces regarding indirectly forced vaccination, as an experienced politician, he would have had the opportunity to respond to anything, to have some demagogic talk, but he said plainly: yes, I have spoken to the Commander of the Defence Forces, there are no documents, but we have had this subject under discussion. I greatly appreciate Kalle Laanet as an officer in this way, and I will really bow down to Kalle. Thank you for that! I would also like to thank Lieutenant General Martin Herem, the Commander of the Defence Forces, who spoke frankly that, yes, such an appeal has been made to the military, and he also spoke very thoroughly about the vaccination plan. I also thank Lieutenant General Martin Herem for his honesty and frankness. He shouldn't have said that if he didn't want to. What's this about? The question is that there is no doubt that, in the field of the Ministry of Defence, orders have actually come from somewhere higher, and this is not the spirit birth of the esteemed Kalle Laanet or the esteemed Martin Herem himself. These orders have come from somewhere else where a vaccination plan has been established. Some time ago Kaja Kallas said that there was no forced vaccination in Estonia. Last week, I asked Jaak Aab exactly the same question as to whether it was a coercive vaccination. He said he wasn't. And when I referred to this pressure at the workplace, his answer was clear and unambiguous: it is unlawful. Why is it actually illegal in one sense and another? Because, in fact, the COVID vaccines have not passed all the tests that the world's practice has used so far. Let us recall the words of Tanel Kiig about why we are still using these experimental vaccines: he said nicely that this has been done conditionally. I also asked Mr Aab again that you should be a good man, tell me what these conditions are, and I asked twice in my speech to give me these terms. Tomorrow it will be a week past that, and Jaak Aab has not presented them. We don't know the conditions under which we vaccinate ourselves. § 18 of the Constitution states that no one may be subjected to medical or scientific tests against his or her free will. At the moment, I see certain interference with § 18 of the Constitution in this direct or indirect coercive vaccination. But I'll come back to the beginning of this. Why did Kalle Laane and Martin Herem today disclose the situation that I have just described? I think they brought this subject to this hall with a warrior's frankness and talked about what was really going on. They cannot change that because there is a chain of command. Search their messages here today for the real truth. You don't say all things straight. So, once again, I thank both Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet and the Commander of the Defence Forces, Lieutenant General Martin Herem, for his speeches today. Now it is, good people of Estonia, the ball in your hand. All servants, all staff, all officials, police officers, rescue workers who consider that their rights have been infringed indirectly by the required vaccination, please turn to court and ask the court to ascertain whether such vaccination is still lawful. Disputes are lengthy and therefore submit an initial application for legal protection in order to suspend the execution of this decree, decision or any other act until the judgment has been delivered. You have the ball, good people of Estonia! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U120	Uno Kaskpeit, please! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U121	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's presentations were interesting on their own, and there was a little bit of substance here too. But I'm talking about defense now. I'm an old border guard. Back in the day, the border guard was in the defense system. We also had conscripts, and our Finnish colleagues trained us to indwell ourselves. The border guard had the task of fighting the regular army as sissy units on the eastern border. It had to be let through and destroyed after the rear lights and stuff. Unfortunately, in 2005, this destruction began. The military service was abolished from the border guard and in 2007 the border guard, the entire company trained in this system, was expelled from the national defence system. Today, I heard something about a military pension being lost. Of course, this does not change anything right now, but this effect will come in years. The number of men who come to study as an officer of the Defence Forces is greatly reduced because older ones explain to them that it is not worth choosing such a difficult life if you do not have any preference. What I'm trying to say now is that all these negative decision-makers have been in this Chamber in their time. They should look in the mirror and admit to themselves that their hands have been involved in the gradual destruction of Estonian national defence. Think about it, comrades! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U122	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Mr President of the Defence Forces! I thank all the waitresses today. I'm not...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U124	I'm sorry, Raivo, I'm gonna ask you if you want to make a speech or if you want to take the floor. In one case you have 5 + 3 minutes, in the other case you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U125	I want to give a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U126	Uh-huh! Five minutes, then. And you want more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U127	No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U128	All right, we'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U129	I am no longer a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But as a member of the Riigikogu and as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have declared that my political credo is the Tartu Peace Treaty. Now that I am a member of the National Defence Commission, I thought that the focus of my political attention had moved elsewhere, but as we have heard today during the debate, the border agreement between Estonia and Russia is a hot point. Whenever this issue comes to the fore, my urges will immediately respond to it, after all, it is my political credo. Today, we have heard in a peaceful response to the question of whether we should not start taking steps to ratify the border agreement, so that we do not have to do so, just as I did on my question. The situation in Russia is similar to that in the east and west. He has not ratified the border agreement with Japan either, and we do not have to. This is not a burning issue in our defence. We have the Tartu Peace Treaty and we have not only the protected state but also the peasant wisdom to keep this situation peacefully. Our country is safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-23_U130	There are no more requests for negotiation. Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow.
