ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the plenary session on Tuesday 16th working week. And as usual, it is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! That's not what you want. We're conducting a presence check. Please, presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U2	Currently 70 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the debate on the crucial national issue "Estonia's energy security and security of supply challenges" initiated by the Isamaa Group. Before we go to this debate, I will remind you how we will deal with this point today. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hardly hear my own voice! According to § 153 of the Home and Working Procedures Act, we have the following procedure. Firstly, the presentation by Riho Terras, Member of the European Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, is up to 20 minutes and then questions and answers up to 20 minutes. Alar Konisti, Professor of TalTech Institute for Energy Technology, Head of the Sustainable Energy and Fuel Research Group, will also give a presentation for up to 20 minutes and 20 minutes for questions and answers in the same way. The presentation by Andres Metsoja, a member of the Isamaa Group, is then up to 15 minutes and the answer to questions is up to 15 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an important point. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask one question and when the waitress finishes, we will reset the questions, which means that for each waitress the question must be re-registered. When we have finished the reports, it is time for the speeches. First of all, there is a request for the speakers to be made by the representatives of the political groups. And, as usual, the Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of this debate. The Isamaa Group has proposed that, if necessary, the sitting be extended to two o'clock, but we will come back to that later. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from Mr Riho Terrase, Member of the European Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. Ladies and gentlemen, really, hello! Let's keep it down, we're about to have a waitress from the European Parliament!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is an undiagnosed privilege for me to present here today and to discuss an important matter to my heart with you. I also thank the Isamaa Group for giving me the opportunity to discuss this issue, energy security and security of supply as a crucial national issue in the Riigikogu. As a member of the European Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Development and Energy, I have to deal with this every day and understand it. And let's be honest, for the first months, weeks and months, it was quite difficult to understand and interpret this subject, which is why I have also followed very closely the debate on this topic in Estonia. I must admit that the discussion of "Climate-neutral Estonia for 2035" in this very hall in April clearly showed that the topic is placative, slogan-based, really clear development plans and plans in Estonia are not in my opinion. However, it is important for all of us that people in Estonia have a warm room at any time, a lamp burning, and at a reasonable price. I'm sure all technologies are important. Therefore, I do not understand any stigmatisation and stigmatisation of energy areas, as has happened to our historically very important oil shale technology. I am sure that Estonian universities have research and development, which enables us to view all energy carriers and energy production in a 'democratic and ecumenical way', giving everyone an opportunity, resulting in the well-being of the people of Estonia. I have met almost all the representatives of energy producers in this debate. I've been talking about the sun and the wind, I've met farm power, nuclear energy developers, went to a mine underground, discussed the future of biomass. I have also talked a lot about the very active hydrogen supporter community in Estonia, which also has its own support group in this Parliament. It is not surprising that everyone praises their own and rules others. It's so like Estonia. However, in my opinion, the balance between the various areas must be very clear in these debates. The sun and wind in itself are also solar energy, which is currently the most popular, the greenest, most important in this green turn, which is very pushed both in Estonia and in the European Union. And these forms of energy are undoubtedly important. This is the energy resource that we have in Estonia. Especially wind power certainly has potential. But they do not solve all the questions, neither the sun nor the wind, because they have one major shortage: they are not always available. At present, there is no possibility of storing the energy collected in Estonia, elsewhere in Europe and worldwide so that it can always be used at certain moments. They are not a so-called regulated resource. Related to the subject of the wind, there has been a major discussion over the last few weeks on the issue of the wind farm to be built in the Gulf of Riga. Yes, 160 windmills in the Gulf of Riga can produce quite a significant amount, almost half of the total energy demand in Estonia, or 1000 megawatts. But in this regard, as always Estonians, there are always certain questions. Of course, visual pollution and noise pollution are not completely harmless to nature either. Their construction generates CO2 and once they are built, it will never be possible to eliminate them again; these windmills will remain in the wild. On the other hand, Estonians have such an understanding: nothing in my yard. Everyone wants green energy, but it can't be in my yard, near me. Solar energy, according to its promoters, is the most democratic energy, because each of us can place a power plant on the roof of our house, use it for ourselves and sell it to others. Unfortunately, at our latitude, the sun is not a resource that can be used all the time. It is not available from November to the anniversary of the Republic. And also there, as we just heard last week from Lääne-Virumaa, everyone agrees with green energy, but the construction of this facility is visually interfering with the people on whose side it will be built. So the sun and the wind are important, but they don't solve the problem of energy security. Nuclear energy has received good political support in recent years, as people who deal with it understand the importance of communicating with the public, sometimes unlike people of solar and wind energy. They talk, communicate, and sell things that don't really exist right now. There really is no fourth generation nuclear power plant, the creation of which is said to be in Estonia. Yes, nuclear power is very low in CO2 emissions, it is very stable. The dispute is whether it is a regulated resource or not, because the nuclear power plant only pays off when it is working all the time, and its construction is extremely costly and extremely difficult. There is also a need to establish a completely new national regulatory system and to train experts. And the last, perhaps the most important, question: there is no raw material in Estonia. There would be dependence on raw materials, currently 50% worldwide from China or from countries under the influence of the People's Republic of China. And what about nuclear waste? When we discuss whether or not a wind farm fits my home yard, what do you think will be the question if someone comes and tells you that I'm going to build you a place to store nuclear waste for 10,000 years? There is also a need to find national answers to these questions, which I have not found in any documents today. However, the people of Estonia are already investing millions in this field of energy. And the last issue is burning oil shale and biomass, or raw material for thermal power plants, which is a very important regulated resource that can be switched on and off as needed. But if we do not have these stations, how can we cover energy needs at the moments when the energy is most needed and the least that we can get from the market is also through external connections? But, of course, oil shale, like coal and oil, has become a terrible sign. The European Parliament even forgets the word "oil shale" sometimes, which is why people working in the Estonian oil shale sector will also be left without transitional subsidies if it is not noticed. That's what happened last year. Biomass is now unpopular again. A few years ago, this was a clearly understandable raw material for renewable energy. At present, I believe that the money directed at the Russian gas monopoly is stigmatised in Europe, especially in the Netherlands, where there are as many people as there are trees and where there is no comparable situation, for example, with Estonia, where the forest is certainly an important resource for management. However, it must also be viewed in a reasonable way, not by using it, but it certainly does not make sense to throw biomass and oil shale into the waste bin. And the last one is gas. This in our context means Russian gas. It is the most politicised raw material in Europe, but also worldwide. Russia is leading the political debate in the major European countries through gas pipelines. Nord Stream 2 is just one example of this. And it's also fossil fuel. But I can't imagine that Germany, which immediately gave up nuclear power and which plans to completely abandon coal, would also give up gas, because Germany, the largest economy in Europe, is dependent on Russian gas, is more than 50%. It has been found that the solution to all problems is hydrogen. Many in this discussion do not know that hydrogen is not energy raw materials, but hydrogen is an energy carrier. Hydrogen can also be made from natural gas, so-called CO2 emissions. It's called gray hydrogen. Blue hydrogen is where CO2 emissions are so-called purified, and green is produced by electrolysis either from the wind or from the sun. But the problem with hydrogen is that the loss of energy is almost 70%, or 30%, of this energy in the production of electricity or in the production of hydrogen and back in the production of electricity. Hydrogen technologies are not yet sufficiently developed. Moreover, Estonia does not have a hydrogen strategy, a clearly defined hydrogen strategy, and Estonia does not even have hydrogen filling stations, except for Professor Lusti's hobby, which he can do from time to time. So this area, too, will not solve the problem of energy security and security of supply. The main balance point is the regulated resource versus the non-regulatory resource. Because the operation of wind and water cannot even be influenced by the decision of the Riigikogu. If there's no sun, no light or no wind, there's no energy. We need to find a way to balance these holes. There are people who say: but then we buy it in using the core network connections we have with other countries. It is believed that there is more wind or sun in Finland or Sweden at this point. However, this may not be the case. This means that incineration plants are and will remain necessary in the future in order to ensure the continuity and security of energy supply. This is as long as hydrogen technologies, batteries and capacitors are not so advanced that solar and wind energy can be stored. The current Commission of the European Union has gone quite far and quite forcefully pushes the grass. I understand that because nothing happens unless you try to do things extremely. But a small country like Estonia must be very careful not to expel a child with this washing water. By 2030, the EU will have a binding target of a 55% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to 1990. They want to be climate-neutral by 2050. This could be achievable. But we need to understand that, especially in recent years, the energy market is going to be a terrible force and a fight. And then where does a small country have these bells of power to come out as a winner in such a way that energy can be delivered to the people of Estonia in Estonia? I don't know yet. There will also be a revision of the new EU Renewable Energy Directive, or rather an old directive, in order to make the existing rules even stricter. The 32% share of renewable energy is intended to be converted to 38 to 40%. The pressure is particularly high on electric cars. The share of electric cars is expected to be raised to a quarter, without recognizing that these electric cars need electricity. Where is it produced when energy production in the European Union is falling all the time because it wants to produce more green energy? The share of renewable energy will also be increased in the heating and cooling sector and will be linked to a mandatory percentage of 1.1% each year. The aim is to introduce stricter rules for biomass and to remove it from the renewable energy package. The data you see on the slide comes from a leaked document, so it may not be one hundred percent as the Commission is currently planning to do. In view of the above, I would like to say that we need to make ourselves clear what is the best solution for Estonia. We need to ensure legal certainty for our companies that produce energy. We have to tell you what their future will be over the next few years. The Energy Economy Development Plan, which currently regulates this area, was written in 2012. Yes, it was confirmed in 2017, but its writing started in 2012. The whole world has changed since then. This energy plan even discussed whether it would be reasonable to use coal in Estonia in addition to oil shale to bring it in to keep certain oil production plants running. Market economy rules. Does the energy system have to operate according to the rules of the market economy, or does it need national regulation to make sure that things are moving properly? Finally, perhaps it is time to think that the Riigikogu has a role to play in this area. I will give an example of security policy. We have the foundations of security policy, confirmed by the Riigikogu. Is it not time to think that, alongside the foundations of security policy, there would also be the foundations of energy policy that would give the whole sector a broad, comprehensive, top-down and no area excluded? The sun and wind, small and large - everything has its place in the Estonian energy landscape. I would therefore conclude my presentation: I call for the establishment of the energy security strategy and the foundations of energy security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U5	Good waitress, there are also questions for members of the Riigikogu. Start Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Terras! Good presentation, I got a lot of more information, but you said that you have met many representatives of various energy producers in Estonia. I quote you: you said that everyone praises their own and rules others, and that it is so like Estonia. You used this expression on quite a number of occasions, so it looks like Estonia. There are obviously examples to the contrary from Europe. Can you name a Member State where this cooperation and synergies are much better and the results are good?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U7	I believe that this praise of your energy is similar everywhere, let's say, so human. And this conflict of renewable energy versus old energy, regulated energy, is still there. In some countries, green energy is part of a huge amount of support, for example, in the country where I live now, in the Netherlands. But this represents only 7% of the total Dutch energy use. He's very popular, and I thought it was a very high proportion, but it turns out that it's actually Russian gas that keeps Holland up. So this discussion, I'm sorry when I used the words "so like Estonia," I would say, so human. That would be the right answer to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U8	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I heard you say that oil shale energy produced in Estonia in Europe will not be taken into account. My question is whether MEPs representing Estonia in Europe will not do enough work to draw attention to the oil shale in Estonia, from which we must switch to green energy. Will it go unnoticed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U10	In Parliament, we are looking very closely at what is happening there. However, oil shale is often excluded from documents coming out of the European Commission because we are the only country in the European Union for which oil shale energy is very important. Probably some production in Germany, but basically other countries do not have oil shale and therefore they are left out of this list of oil, coal and gas. We have always been able to put it in Parliament at the end of the day, but it requires a great deal of persuasion, because the people who represent their country in Parliament cannot always support things that they know nothing about. And Oil Shale, as an English term, is not familiar to most people in Europe or the European Parliament. So you have to fight for it. Let's do our best.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U11	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U12	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, thank you, Riho, for your very good presentation. In your report, you also marked incinerators once. How do you feel? The current requirements are that we should wash all the milk packages clean at home with clean water, which is not very much in the world, and then they will eventually reach the kiln. Would it still not be more appropriate for waste to reach the kiln directly, for it to produce heat and electricity, and for it to be re-generation rather than for clean drinking water to be spent?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U13	It's got to be green in there, too. I'm not, I must admit, expert, but I appreciate that burning this garbage should also become more effective with technological progress. In the landfill economy, the most important thing is that the garbage is recycled and burned only after it has gone all rounds. In this context, I personally advocate a glass instead of all kinds of milk packages, but unfortunately, people in general do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U14	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very good presentation. But I would like to ask you that as former Commander of the Defence Forces, you will certainly continue to have good colleagues in Europe as well. How does this affect our defence capabilities and the defence capabilities of our partners in Europe in the run? Politicians have, indeed, often a desire to be slogans of one thing or another. But in the end, society has to come and society has to do the things that politicians have to do with their big mouths. How does it feel to your colleagues that we are ready to go along with those very radical thoughts that are constantly being cultivated in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U16	I guess I'm working on it from this point of view. The security of people is important both to the Commander of the Defence Forces and to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. The most important thing is for the military to ensure that the enemy does not attack, but it is more important for the human being to have a light on and a warm room and a reasonable price. For example, in Texas, the price of electricity rose from $50 per megawatt to $9,000 per megawatt due to the cyber attacks of the gas pipeline, and this could no longer be paid by the people of Estonia. It's a security issue, there's no doubt. I am convinced that there are several aspects to security. The only place where energy security is indeed mentioned in the strategic document is the foundations of security policy, but I expect it to be rewritten much more, especially as this issue has come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U17	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U18	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question about what their problem with this biomass is that it is being taken out of renewable energy. What could these possible speculations be? Does the smell disturb a welfare society, or is there other reasons we do not yet know?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U19	The reason is that for a Western European person living in, for example, the Netherlands or Germany, the forest has been defined in a completely different way. They're just parks that grow between people. The forest foundation, the bush, everything that goes to biomass in Estonia, they don't have it. They think we're burning precious wood that isn't true. I've been specifically touching it, measuring it, watching it. Yeah, some logs look big, but they're rotten inside. Estonian biomass comes from forests that are otherwise simply destroyed and left under the forest. This is an important topic for discussion. Environmental studies have been clearly paid off in the Netherlands, which make Estonia the scariest 'green energy' because we produce biomass. I've read it myself, we're the scariest in the world. In fact, in the United States, the percentage that is used is much higher. So this is such a public debate on stigmatization, and it needs to be resisted. Estonian diplomats are standing, and I have done so in several places, but it is difficult because there are big money in the back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U20	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Riho Terras, thank you for your presentation. Studies are also being carried out in Estonia in the field of nuclear energy; they are such basic studies as "Are they at all?" the question format. My question to you is: how is the area of nuclear energy being treated in Europe, are these debates being held? You mentioned the example of Germany; for certain reasons, this has happened. But is there a debate about this, or is it still put on stand by and moving towards other forms of energy, renewable energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U22	This debate is the most belligerent. I would say that there are the most defined pros and cons who are in favour of who is opposed. And therefore, none of Europe's general strategic documents deals with nuclear power, because if you put it in there, there will be no document, because it is so controversial. This is a completely forbidden issue and the greatest wars, street battles are precisely the subject of nuclear debate. I am surprised that no one in Estonia stands against nuclear energy with posters. It'll come. For Estonia, it is still so far, so theoretical, but sometime it will become real and somewhere somebody has to say that for 10,000 years it must be stored so-called nuclear waste. For me, there is also a completely ideological problem. We have been able to keep the Christian view of the world for 2,000 years, but how can we say behind 10,000 years that the thing that is underground is very dangerous to us or kills, right, we do not know. But aside from these discussions, nuclear power can actually be effective for a small country, if we can do it in the end. But this debate is very polarised in Europe. And I myself wouldn't be investing in nuclear energy right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U23	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this presentation. But one thing I didn't hear in this presentation is what we were discussing in this Chamber yesterday with the Prime Minister. I see that the first words in the title are "Estonian Energy Security." Yesterday, we touched on the Government's desire to ratify the Estonian-Russian border treaty in order to anchor this current control line as the Estonian state border. How does this plan and desire affect Estonia's energy security with regard to the power plants in Narva?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U25	It is important for us to ensure that grey, black and dirty energy does not reach Estonia through the back door. If we shut down our oil shale plants, are we going to buy in this grey hydrogen or polluted electricity somewhere else, if we're currently short of energy, because we don't have enough of our own production capacity? That is one reason why we should not, under any circumstances, close the incineration plants. We must not become dependent on Russian oil shale energy, Russian gas. This is a very important subject for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U26	Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U27	Thank you, good manager. Good Riho Terras, thank you for this presentation. You were talking about recording technology that it wasn't ready in the required form yet. Maybe it's not. But let me remind you that today is such an anniversary where we celebrate the fact that 30 years ago we made the first cell phone call. And if we hadn't dreamed of anything or had no ambition, we wouldn't have innovative solutions either. Tarmo Soomere wrote a very good article in April, and I'm pretty sure you've read it. He brought out three things there. These three things can be summed up in one word: recording, recording, recording. Shouldn't we be working today to make these ambitions a little bigger and to deal with this recording rather than to say that it's a funny thing for an academic? We should pay more attention to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U28	Of course we do, absolutely, I totally agree! I also wrote a request to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications that a hydrogen strategy be created. But there is no hydrogen strategy in Estonia now, and it is this document that must regulate it. Yeah, the recording, of course. But you can't turn anything off until something goes off. And hydrogen technologies have not yet advanced this far. But I really believe in it because Estonia's research and development work is good. For example, Elcogen, where I've been, has the most modern technologies in the world. We must support it, but for that, the state must say these things very clearly. Latvians have a hydrogen filling station, Estonia does not. Even the Latvians do! So I agree with you and the professor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U29	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for this presentation, Riho Terras. Very clever! There would actually be a lot of questions: wind energy, solar energy, nuclear energy, biomass and so on, but I would stop at oil shale in my question. It is a unique situation in Estonia that we have three important things: we have a resource, we have technology and we have knowledge. Unfortunately, on the basis of the climate targets set in Europe, the situation has, in conclusion, arisen where we have become an energy-dependent country from an energy independent country and an energy-exporting country. And here's my question. At present, the production of oil shale electricity is basically already finished in real life and we are no longer able to compete on the market. Today we can still make oil shale oil from oil shale, but we can see that this, too, is a fading business in the current steps. And here's my question. What do you think, should we make the maximum effort in relation to oil shale to achieve possible differences in Europe and to stand up for our own interests, or should we take the steps that are due to climate objectives? Do we have to go along with this? Once again, we have technology, knowledge and resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U31	My answer is yes to both questions. Yes, we must understand that if we do not invest in oil shale technology, which has not been invested in in recent years, it will disappear itself. And if we do not give certainty to our companies that we need it until 2030 2035 2040, they will not invest. They don't make sense; they work on the market economy principle. And this kind of energy disappears without anyone eliminating it because they just don't invest in it. But yes, I don't think we have the right to say no to oil shale. It's because we have a hundred years of experience. We have knowledge and what's more important: people. Nobody's gonna argue if the ash mountain is good or bad. We even have the technology to make milk whiteners from the ash mountain. The whole message of my report is that we must use all the possibilities, including those we already have, to keep ourselves competitive. Competitiveness is another issue that is very important to me. When we look at what is happening in the world, when Europe turns off nuclear and coal power and starts producing energy from the wind and the sun only, the question at one point is whether it will be able to compete with China, where coal mining and coal production increased, rather than shrinking last year. Will our competitiveness suffer? These are all the questions to which we should find strategic answers in precisely the format I repeat the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U32	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riho, thank you also for your realistic and balanced presentation. But I'd like to ask you about controlled thermonuclear energy. Could a viable solution be achieved by 2050, even at an experimental level? Did you ever talk about it there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U34	Thank you. I left it out on purpose. In fact, technology has been in place for 30 years, but it wants an exceptionally large, fast, one investment that the fossil fuel-based economy has still not wanted to do. And no one really knows how safe it is. A big bang might not be safe. In 2010, I went to one accelerator myself, and then I was very enthusiastic, but today I am less enthusiastic, because from 2010 until now there has been a decline rather than a rapid development. So in the future, you could invest in it, but right now, I don't see anyone doing it. It needs a huge investment, it is an investment for the whole of the European Union, but it is not in any document.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U35	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The leading discourse is such that there are noble green energy advocates and reactionary and cynical old energy advocates. In fact, as your report turned out, there's a very big industry on both sides, very big money, and so on. But my question relates partly to what you already answered Sven Sester. If the European Union goes blue-eyed like this to make this green turn, which is generally very good, are we not hopelessly falling behind the United States, China, developed countries, Brazil, Africa and so on? Is this not a direct challenge to our security, not just to energy, but to security?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U37	Thank you. Yeah, it's a two-way debate. I would compare it with the 2000 security policy debate in Estonia, where some strongly supported NATO and others said that there must be an independent defence capability. It was a big fight. We should find a common ground and say that both are important. Both must be invested, because otherwise Europe will really remain part of the orphanage and will lose significantly in its competitiveness. I agree with that. The European Union therefore also needs an energy strategy. This is not yet the case in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U38	Mr Terras, thank you for this report. Unfortunately, your time is up. Now let's get the next waitress. Next, a chair is invited from Alar Kon, Professor of the TalTech Institute of Energy Technology, Head of the Sustainable Energy and Fuel Research Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U39	Good morning, Honourable Vice-President of the Riigikogu and Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to stand before you here on such an important subject. Today we are planning to give you a non-emotional presentation to give you an overview of the current state of the world. We have set very great ambitions for ourselves. We want to say the future, how to say, to make the whole world model basically carbon neutral, but to do that, I don't know how many years. A couple of years? And what does that look like in numbers? We could still realise that 79% of world primary energy consumption in 2020 was based on fossil fuels, 21% on non-fossil fuels. And of that 21%, let's say 11% are renewable energy sources: biomass, wind, hydro and all other renewable energy sources, and the remaining 10% is nuclear energy. It could make us wonder how serious our ambition is. Is it possible or realistic to meet such goals overnight? And if so, what is its effect? What is the impact on the environment, and what is the impact on people's wallets? Is it right to approach on a slogan basis, or is it right to approach on an environmental basis and on a human welfare basis? And how would it be optimal to achieve such a golden midway? I'm gonna bring out a little more numbers from last year. As there is a corona crisis, the increase in primary energy consumption slowed down. But this slide has a nice list of numbers that have changed since then. 15% of renewable energy has grown in the sun and wind, but if you look inside this number, you will see that this is 314 terawatt-hour energy. If we look at the previous slide, see, for example, what is the primary energy consumption of oil. We're talking about 53000 or 54000 sharp hours. If you look into these percentages, we always realize that the growth has been great. But if you look in the larger picture and in the picture of the energy volumes, actually, these increases have still been quite small. And if you look at who's running this world's energy consumption, it's China. Last year, more than 50% of coal electricity was produced in China. And Chinese coal consumption increased last year. These are, in fact, warning signals that we should definitely think about. Now, if you look at primary energy consumption, how this is reflected in emissions, here is an extract of global CO2 emissions: you can see that there is constant growth. There are no statistics for last year, but there will be. I can see the growth is still great. And where is the growth? Basically, however, in Asian countries, China and India, especially if we mention them. We could view the European Union as one of the good examples. You will see that CO2 emissions from the European Union have decreased. But if we get into it, what do you think it's gonna look like? First of all, let's look at the percentages once again, you'll see that everything is very good. In Estonia, for example, the 2020 targets have been met; you can see this from the left-hand graph. If you look at the top right-hand graph, you will see how much renewable energy has been produced from the wind, how much is sun, water, etc. But if you look at this lower graph, you will see that, in fact, only 14% of the European Union's electricity consumption is produced from a renewable energy source. That means it's actually a beautiful long way to go. How it makes sense to do that, I don't know what to say to you. But this is a place of clear thinking that we should take into account. And what happened in the meantime? I have shown you that CO2 emissions from the European Union have decreased. There are actually quite a lot of different reasons here, but first of all we need to understand that the European Union is a net energy importer. More than half of the energy needs in the European Union are actually covered by imports, which means that this energy comes from somewhere and this energy has some environmental impact. And if you look at this trend again, it's actually reduced significantly by the last decade. If you take the statistical numbers from 2018 and compare them with numbers from 10 years ago, we see that primary energy production has decreased by almost 10%. This, in my opinion, is still a threat. And if you look at what we've imported, all fossil fuels are basically fossil fuels. But if we also look at the generation of electricity that we are dealing with most today, at least in the Estonian context, we can say that electricity production in the European Union has been stable or stabilised. But if you look into these numbers a little bit and look at imports, we see that our energy consumption has increased year after year, and that growth we cannot cover with renewable energy. And this increase is actually compensated by imports. Is that really what we want? If we look at the European Union's power generation capacity, the one on which it is based, here is a beautiful cake chart from which you can see that almost half of it is still produced by burning fuel, a quarter of it is nuclear energy, and the rest we can treat as renewable energy. But it could make us wonder how much we still depend on fossil fuels. If you come to Estonia, there have been no large wind farms in Estonia lately. In this sense, you can say that this graph is entirely up to date. Wind parks are in all sorts of development scenarios, but they are not physically built. And now, if you look at how much electricity we have produced, for example, from biomass, or wood, then one way or another, we can say that you see, in fact, the bulk of renewable energy produced in Estonia comes from wood. But if we now also shut down the energy use of wood, first, our renewable energy percentage will decrease, and second, it will present an even greater challenge, or it will give us an even greater problem in which we can resolve this situation. So in this context, we should still take time and make some concrete development plans. If I have looked at the trends in the neighbouring countries, what electricity production has been like and how much energy imports have started, then the energy deficit in the Baltic States has grown, and also in the Nordic countries. The reason I put the Nordic countries here is because we are often told that we have wires and we import from the Nordic countries, for example. But if you see that actually there is already a basically achieved such a zero line, i.e. there is no energy left, then there is no point in carrying hoses when the well is dry. We should still think about where we're going to draw that energy from. The left-hand graph has been set up for you because we have so far distinguished ourselves from the countries of the European Union. We are distinguished by the fact that we have been energy independent. But this graph is from 2018 and the situation is unfortunately now, or, fortunately, I can't say, changed. So we are increasingly like the averages of the European Union. And if you look at this most left column, you will see it, as I told you, that more than 50% of energy is still imported into Europe. It's a thought-provoking place. So where did we get to last year? We basically reached a point where 43% of the electricity we imported. Only 25% of electricity came from renewable energy sources and our consumption has been on a constant growth trend: we have spent 8.4 sharp hours of energy. It is also beautifully pointed out how much biomass has given: as I have already said, it is 1.3 terawatt-hours. You could also note that the share of wind energy has still been only 37%, which is a pretty small figure. And I deliberately pointed out the production of solar power plants. We hear how many megawatts we have of solar parks built or installed all the time. But we still need to understand what this coefficient of use is or how much energy they can generate over a year, of course, for a certain period of time regardless of us. And this is 0.12 point-hours. Let me remind you that electricity consumption was 8.4 terawatt-hours. That could make a point. And when the discussion here said that oil shale electricity was not produced, it was actually produced and produced almost 2.5 terawatt-hours in 2020 but in new boiling blocks. Let's just say that when they're new, they're getting old, too. And if there is a signal that we are not using them, there is no point in investing there either to ensure the reliability of existing production capacities or to build new production capacities. So we should very critically review this situation. Let's just say the market is always a great thing, but examples of life itself can be found. We may have money, and we can also pay 40% more for construction material than it normally has, but it is not currently available for construction material. It's a take, say, September. Everything depends on the specific building material we want, the delivery times are different. The electricity market is in the same situation. If there is a shortage of energy, there will in fact not be major penalty mechanisms or sanctions if energy is not delivered. But the question is, do we really want it? I have, however, looked at energy from the point of view of the country so that we will build you, but we will not expect a profit in the case of roads. In fact, these fundamentals of society should still operate a little on other principles, or at least some of them should be more specifically regulated by a system than just a market-based approach. Today's question for me is perhaps simple for you: is security of supply and energy security important to the state or not? If it is not important that energy is available at any time, then we should not really have this discussion or debate here. But if it is still important that energy is taken at any time, then it must also be taken care that it is taken at any time. There are two keywords. I'll bring them out so they don't get confused. One thing is security of supply, which states that energy is available to consumers at any time or when demand is needed. But the energy security dimension is something much bigger. The energy security dimension means energy that we can produce regardless of others, from the point of view of energetics. This means that we do not import raw material from which we can produce energy for ourselves. This is also a very important place to think. And let me give you an example from Germany. That year, the 10th week was one where there were no winds for three days. And what has worked at that time? In Germany, coal plants have worked, as well as gas plants as well as nuclear plants. This red one is a nuclear power plant. But I would like to remind you here that Germany is also shutting down its nuclear power plants. Let's keep going. I can't tell you, but I've always had the impression that there are no coal stations in Europe. Maybe you have the same impression. But I pointed out one table, as well as the age distribution of the map of Europe and the coal plants, in order to actually show that, as the previous schedule showed, coal plants are actually used in Europe. We are using them to maintain the quality of the network, to ensure energy security. While renewable energy sources do not produce energy, something else is needed. And here you should also look at this top part, these yellow sections here are solar energy. It might also make you think that there is no solar energy in the meantime, but we actually have consumption during the night hours. How can such a problem be solved? There are still quite a number of challenges here. Why did I bring out those coal stations? Because they all grow old and demand investment, but they don't want to do it or do it. So there are almost no coal mines in Europe, or even if there are others, they will be closed. So what would be a good substitute for them? There's gas. Germany has also said that replacement fuel, as long as good solutions have not been devised, is gas. Now we are seeing different crises here, look at the crisis in Belarus. I think one of the reasons why it is not being taken very seriously is here. If we still depend so much on the energy imported from Russia, it is clear that we do not want to have a fight with Russia. It has been pointed out here that 30% of the oil actually imported came from Russia last year. 40% of the gas consumed came from Russia and 42% of the coal consumed was also from Russia. This coal is replaced by gas, but actually let's say there's no significant reduction in these parameters. But I'll bring another dimension. The previous speaker also spoke here about the Texas crisis. I've analyzed it, and there are actually three reasons. There was a false promise of energy independence, short-sighted deregulation of the energy market and unwillingness to learn from similar cases in the past. In fact, we have a good experience of this year from which we can learn and from which we can still plan our future scenario. I have also pointed out that we have been told that the last kilowatt-hour of energy will not be consumed because the price of energy will go so high. The Texas example is the opposite: if the price was normally $50 megawatt-hour, then it rose to $9,000 for a megawatt-hour and still lacked energy. 30% of the population in the region was still without electricity. It's very thoughtful, considering that if it was 20 degrees outside, could it actually have been avoided. There's another danger. In addition to its dependence on electricity, gas is also dependent, because a large part of electricity is generated from gas. And if we go down the road in Europe too, if we depend on electricity and we depend on gas, then we will actually increase the risks of energy security. I'm not even going to point out the technical aspect of what's in this picture, but there are also these price fluctuations. If we now look at Estonia's development scenarios, we have not actually invested in regulated production capacities. As far as existing production blocks are concerned, I have pointed out here what the emergency stalls have been in Narva: there have been four days, there have been nine hours, two days, three days. And if you think that today we are planning a shortage of our energy production, and if we see that, in fact, the reliability of these production equipment is not always guaranteed, then we have already planned a very high risk here. All in all, I want to take it so that one thing really is the climate goals that we want to meet. But we should still not forget that this is a very important part of the functioning of society. We must not leave this to chance. We must not underestimate energy security and security of supply. And we also have to consider that we're at the end of the transmission line. The Coronian crisis also shut down national borders. The deal is, it won't close. But if you mean now that, even if the rest of the European countries are facing energy shortages, do the agreements first have to or will the energy needs of their own country be met? It is clear that the energy needs of our country will be met and we will try better next time, after saying that we are sorry. Let's just say that the current problem is that producers lack the confidence to invest in regulated production capacities. And this situation should be resolved. And the current problem may also be that network companies should not provide system services. Why does the network company build its own synchronised compensators? In fact, it should be the case that with all market participants, things have been discussed and then the best solution will be found. That's all there is. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U40	And we can certainly further clarify the questions. Starting with Jüri Jaanson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U41	Thank you very much for a very thorough presentation and a very good problem setting! I understand that security of energy supply is very important to us and we have adopted, at political level, such a climate target that we would have a carbon-free or carbon-free world by 2050. But how do you assess this prism of security of supply, given your knowledge that this climate target by 2050 is real?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U42	Thank you for your question. Let's just say it's real when the whole world comes along. However, the problem is rather that the EU's CO2 emissions are about 9% of the world's CO2 emissions. Why do we have a small figure? This is also because our production has moved out of the countries of the European Union. But in case we set such great ambitions today, it's going to be very expensive. And it also gives a competitive advantage to those countries where these ambitions do not go along. At the moment, the European Union's legislative party has also not been able to catch up, even if it were to say, why we can import energy from third countries. If we couldn't import it or have some kind of tax on it, we'd have a normal competitive situation. But as long as it does not exist, the risk is rather that these emissions will go outside the European Union, but the world's view will not improve. In fact, however, the goal is to improve the picture of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U43	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Overall, there was a very good presentation and Riho Terras's presentation was also good. As an Eastern virumaan, I am constantly concerned about the fact that we are losing those capacities with which we can maintain our energy security. How do we generally come out of this? As you said, no one wants to invest in these stations. And another problem is what I see very clearly in Ida-Virumaa, also in schools, that young people do not want to study this specialty because these specialties are no longer prospective. No parent would recommend that their children study mining disciplines or energy. We're talking today that we don't have engineers. I think we've made a very big mistake in this hall right now. How do you get out of it, what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U45	Thank you for your question. I myself, as a lecturer, face the same problem that it's hard to find students who would like to come to engineering. Maybe the state should do something to appreciate the work of engineers. The reason why engineers have not been spotted so far is because we have done a good job. We're like gray mice, and as long as everything works, no one will even know it's been an engineer. But now, when we come to say, on the more substantial side, there are really opportunities to meet these climate goals with a domestic resource. This is where the whole system should be looked at more widely. I actually have one helping slide right here where I've pointed out how much CO2 emissions there are in coal energy every year. Below you can see how much CO2 emissions from natural gas are generated by electricity. It's less, but it'll definitely grow if we don't produce energy from coal. But on line three, we have cement production. And what we are not doing in Estonia now is that we are not making the most of these resources or their potential. If we think about the production of two tons of cement for every resident in the world last year, and we know that one ton of cement produces half a tonne of CO2, then we have all contributed one to the world's emissions. But where I wanted to get to is that we also need to burn limestone to produce cement. But so far, if we have, how to say, produced oil shale energy, then we have also treated this material thermally, so it is already largely suitable as input into cement production. This actually means that if we start looking at the whole chain, it would be possible to start decarbonising this energy production, or to show that we have reduced it in the construction sector, or to show less in electricity production. This isn't some kind of laundry, but the idea or dimension is that if coal is produced from electricity now, lime will be used. This lime is produced in lime plants and produces CO2. However, CO2 generated by lime production is not taken into account in the production of electricity. How can it be that we're not looking at the whole chain, we're looking at some single knots? This is how it happens that we will not actually be able to solve this problem as long as there is no cradle-to-grave approach. But I am proposing to you a solution that has not been done at the moment and which was proposed by the International Energy Agency a few years ago: it is a differentiation of network charges. This means that all the major investments we make are to make renewable energy more suitable to fit our network, how to say it, into operation. But it actually means that the network charge should be higher. Then maybe there would be a normal investment environment where the regulated capacities, because they give, let's say, "better" quality, more stable and uniform frequency of energy, the network fee is lower by that. That's how we're going to have some kind of economic dimension. It's worth taking care of. But right now, basically, all the investments that the core network makes go in a non-differentiated form into our energy bills, and that may not be the right one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U46	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U47	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I would ask about the production of biomethane. Somehow everyone in Estonia thinks it's the future. I'm a little different, I'm hydrogen. How is it generally elsewhere in the world: does this trend come from there, or is it such a corrupting fraction that it is easier for the Chinese to extract coal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U48	Thank you for your question. We need to see what the source material is from which we can produce biomethane. If we look at what's most resource-intensive, it's wood. We no longer want to use wood, or at least we have said that the use of wood should be restricted. Now the cuttings are stopped. Where else can we look? Raw material could be grasses, for example, but if you look at this potential, it's beautifully small. And you'll also have to look at the seasonality when this material can be collected. You must also take into account weather conditions: this material must be able to be stored so much that it can be stored for a longer period of time and produced by it throughout the year. But if you also put in there that you still have to spend fossil fuel to stock it, then ultimately, here, too, these cradle-to-grave analyses have not been carried out. We have not analysed what the real environmental impact is if we want to produce biomethane. And here's actually another idea: why should we even produce biomethane? Why can't it remain biogas if we use most of it to produce energy? In fact, there is no need to deserve it, or to increase its methane content. It's as simple as that. In fact, we do not have such potential or resources to cover consumption volumes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U49	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Professor! I believe that there is no dispute about the fact that the basis for each country's security is independent energy production and that it certainly provides certain guarantees. However, there is now a situation in which the European Union is planning to channel EUR 340 million to Ida-Virumaa for a green turn for miners to find new jobs, to set up their own businesses. In essence, this means cutting established work practices and experience in this sector. I have a question in this plan: how do you feel about this idea being put forward when it ends with our own energy production in this region being cut off?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U51	Thank you. I may not have understood the question correctly, but I hope I did. I'm trying to make sense of it the way I understood it. If the question is that we get a one-time injection of money, this 340 million, and if it actually solves the problem, then the answer is that it doesn't. If we look at the annual turnover in this area, it is about EUR 700 million. I hope I'm not wrong with the number, but I'm not an economic expert. But we should see behind these numbers. If we look at electricity production there, even if we look at oil production there, then there is always talk about unit costs and the price of electricity in electricity production. But what we forget to take into account in the context of the country is that the state will also receive a resource fee from it, the state will also receive a pollution fee from it and the state will also receive tax revenue from it. And all of this is actually part of our economy, and there hasn't been anything in place today. I would approach this transition more calmly. A normal transition would be that businesses will come in a row, the production of these companies will be profitable and they will be able to buy over people from this industry. Then there would be this kind of spontaneous industrial closure. But right now, basically, the residents have been told that there will be something to replace, but we haven't offered anything to replace, and that 340 million doesn't really solve it either. I can give you an example from Germany. Nature magazine was a very good article that analysed the closure of a mining area where there was also energy production. And the social assistance that Germany paid there was in billions, just to prevent a social disaster and see how it works. This means that we should also have some sort of, I don't know, package of measures, but not a year, but ten years, for example. And then the transition would be solved normally. But now, unfortunately, the residents have no idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U52	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Professor! We know that there are around 30 million low-quality timber in our forests, which we cannot afford today other than to produce energy alone. At the same time, more and more has been said about the wisdom of not using wood at all to produce energy. You also hinted that such a belief was common, and they say that it is wiser to use Russian gas instead of wood. How do you comment on this attitude, and how could it affect our energy security?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U54	Thank you for your question. Here, my own assessment of the situation is, in fact, very simple and pragmatic. The European Union has taken such a generalised approach, but it is a topic where each region, each country should evaluate its own resources and decide which approach is the right one. And today I think that in the forestry sector, a knowledge-based and science-based approach would be the most appropriate. Very right, as you said: we also have low quality perishable wood, which I think is right to use energetically. One thing is that it would otherwise become methane, which goes into the atmosphere, but the other and the most important dimension is employment. The timber industry is a very important component of our economy and the functioning of our economy. In fact, we still have significantly more forest than the average in the European Union, so we have managed it well so far. Why do we think we won't be able to do this in the future? In this context, we simply need to look at the optimal use capacity. In fact, if you look at the production of heat from renewable energy sources, Estonia is the absolute peak of Europe. And precisely because we have cogeneration plants based on local raw materials or resources. And that should definitely go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U55	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good waitress, for a very meaningful presentation. It seems to me that innovation continues to be seen as a cost element in Estonian society. Research and development, which is actually a part of the group, is also often nailed to it. We know the state of the science-based approach to the forestry development plan. The honourable rapporteur, Riho Terras, raised the key importance of the energy security strategy in this Chamber. Why don't you open your mind a little bit? As a Member of Parliament, it seems to me that with the forestry development plan we are still in very thick mud. If we now opened the direction of such an energy security strategy, do you see that Estonia can do this today on its research base?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U57	Thank you for your question. I'm sure you could. We have a large number of researchers working in different fields who deal with different aspects. I'm dealing with the energy side myself, but there are other ways of deserving, be it for construction, furniture, chemical production. Let's just say give me the money, and we can produce anything. Is it economically feasible? Absolutely not. And actually, the biggest problem in the current context is that when money is given for research and development, cost-effective solutions are expected immediately, but there is no basis for it, it should not be expected immediately. Such innovative activities should not be linked to performance indicators of any kind. At the same time, when the forestry development plan is opened, there should certainly be a security dimension in it. And let's just say, it must also be appreciated what this wood resource is, which should go into energy use. There is one subject that I did not consciously talk about today, but which is one of the European Union's greatest problems, which we are actually creating in the same way. Why really should we produce and export wood pellets at all when they end up somewhere in the European Union's thermal power plant or England, which is no longer in the European Union? It's just because we turn wood into granules to make it more convenient to transport and so that this combustion technology device, or boiler, can handle burning. But if the ultimate goal is to get this kilowatt-hour or megawatt-hour, why are we actually doing this? It would be much more reasonable not to spend energy producing granules and to use it as a chipp. In the case of a start, we don't have to put enough resources in there to crush, dry, squeeze, to finally burn everything. It's going to be raw wood, shredded away, and it's going to the combustion plant. There will be no transport costs and many other costs. A beautiful significant part of the wood, however, has been exported in the form of pellets. So we have actually worked against the climate goals in the same way. We should not do this and we should find a way to use it here on the ground. But this is where the biggest problems in Europe arise, that there are different subsidies for renewable energy. That's why this system works. The rich countries of the European Union are able to pay a higher renewable energy fee and they can buy them how to say climate statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U58	Dear Professor, the agreed time window for questions and answers is over. Thank you very much for this presentation. And now a speech chair is welcome from Andres Metsoja, a member of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U59	Mr President of the sitting and the guests of the Riigikogu! I thank the Isamaa Group for this opportunity and I certainly thank the members of the Group for their contribution. The speech that has been written, and which I will present to you, will certainly be based on a wider supporting surface, not just my personal thoughts and feelings, which I am trying to express to you. I also wish you a Happy Child Welfare Day! Today is this day and, in fact, energy science is undoubtedly the subject of the future. This is one of the themes in which we give our Estonia, our planet, to future generations. And this responsibility is actually very great. This is important both in the context of the environment and, in fact, in the context of freedoms. After all, the previous reports very vividly proved this to all of us. In my speech, I would like to focus on three important things, if I may say so, the stool leg. These are security of supply, legal clarity and the involvement of the local community, in other words, motivation. Estonia's energy security and security of supply depend on our own decisions. The denial of climate change and the green socialism in which decisions are taken for the sake of day-to-day popularity that will put our energy security at risk in the long term will not help us in making these decisions. Strong and flexible infrastructure, sustainable management, diverse energy sources and good connections with other countries of the European Union could be considered as the keywords of Estonia's energy security. At the same time, it is very important that the local communities of Estonia, along with our people, understand why we make certain choices or decisions at national level. Sustainable management, sustainability and efficiency are more topical than ever. People's environmental awareness has increased and more and more attention is paid to what energy we consume and how we consume. At the same time, too often, we run into the raft of trying to contrast the competitiveness of the economy with a clean living environment or energy security with the achievement of climate objectives. I would argue that these objectives are not contradictory. They will only be counterproductive if our ambitions are too low. What should be our ambition? Every beginning, every change is complicated. This requires innovation, a clear legal space, a long-term view, as well as the security and a clear message provided by the state. By clear message, I mean that it is not possible to justify my purpose by means of half-sisters. You have to be honest about things. Let us take the example of Germany here. Germany has decided to close down a significant part of its controlled capacity: coal-based power plants and nuclear power. In order to achieve the climate goals, priority is given to greener fossil fuels, the already mentioned Russian natural gas. In Estonia's example, closing controlled production capacities would mean, in a simplified way, that if we decided to shut down oil shale plants by 2030, our only credible alternative would be Russian natural gas or nuclear power plant. For me, it can be said that oil shale can be completely replaced by renewable energy sources or, if necessary, by electricity imported from the European Union. But that would only be half the truth. We must take into account that today's recording technology is not enough to have renewable energy sources alone. In the case of imported electricity, however, there is always a question of what will happen during peak demand or what will happen if Europe is faced with an unexpected crisis. The experience of the last year shows that the risk of a crisis must not be underestimated in any way. When the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, no country cared about the free market and the free movement of goods, and it could give us an idea of the dangers that could hit us in a potential energy crisis. I would therefore like to emphasise that we must also have a backup plan in the gradual transition to a renewable energy source. One of these options is to maintain the power generation capacity of oil shale so that, if we need to, we have a plan B. In this context, we must take into account the fact that the desynchronousisation of our electricity grid by 2025 is important in the view of energy security. The transition to synchronous work with the continental European frequency band mitigates the risk that Estonia's dependence on the Russian energy system and frequency band could be exploited against us. From 2026 onwards, therefore, we will be in the continental European frequency band, but our connections with the Western countries will at least be limited for the time being. Therefore, the Baltic States must have a real willingness to maintain their frequency independently. This does not mean that Estonia's energy goals should be less ambitious. Just by setting our goals, we must be guided by the principle that an old well will not be closed until the new one is ready. We need to diversify our energy sector and make electricity production more environmentally friendly. This requires careful consideration of the way decisions are made and consideration of how to get rid of the "not my backyard" attitude. Without people, it is very difficult to develop a society. In order for us to be able to meet our climate goals successfully, the support of the Estonian people is needed. To achieve this, people need to understand and feel the benefits of change. Our legal space and the message of the state should be based on a simple principle: if something is built in your backyard, it will not only bring you a potential distraction but also a specific benefit for you, your community and your region. If a single county is built on the sea or on land, a wind farm of national interest, part of the income from that park must also reach the local government's budget. The 160-hectare Toots wind farm property in Pärnu County was auctioned at a starting price of 12.3 million euros, but the final price of the auction was 51.5 million euros. This market value did not arise on its own. Tootsi's wind farm began with a county plan designed to examine whether it was possible to produce energy from the wind in the peat fields. In the past, this was an area for which the State received a resource fee for the extraction of peat, but today Toots' wind farm is an area of important national importance and high value in wind energy. I think that such initiatives would be more numerous if local citizens saw the benefits of this in infrastructure, for example. Whether it is a better quality road or a vital internet connection. The recent Supreme Court decision regarding the area of 892 hectares of Lavassaare peat field cannot be overlooked here. The judgment made it clear that the development of wind energy is an important public interest and that both public authorities and local authorities must make reasonable efforts to ensure that the planned wind farms can be established. It is precisely in the light of the important public interest that we must also talk about legal clarity and existing bottlenecks. In previous years, there was a huge confusion about the construction of Aidu wind farm. Both private companies and the state had an interest in setting up Aid's wind farm, but the whole process became entangled in disputes, in the maze of dealing with ministries and other agencies. If the establishment of a wind farm is of significant national interest, the question must not go away as to whether the state has sufficient resources to build radars. In such matters, there should be no silo of ministries and no shortage of Excel's table at the Ministry of Finance. Once we have agreed on national priorities, made international commitments, and there is a desire at local level and there is a desire for entrepreneurs, everything must be done to make it possible to move forward with the establishment of wind farms. Legal clarity and certainty ensure that wind farms are actually built. The disputes around wind parks are not limited to mainland Estonia. We know that the benefits of sea wind farms are significantly higher than those of land parks. A specific target should be set for the first sea wind park to be established in Estonia before 2030. However, we need a comprehensive approach to this, and we need to find a way to give the investor sufficient confidence to proceed quickly with the project. With regard to wind farms, there is also a strong hope that, if it has been too much inclined towards the country so far, the energy sector will now open up to more competition. In the early 1990s, reforms aimed at the free market economy and competition in Estonia led us to hope that if we are able to create an environment conducive to innovation and competition in the context of meeting our climate objectives and provide sufficient security for the private sector, we will also see a higher share of private capital in the field of energy. In particular, empowering the private sector could be one of the long-term objectives of our energy policy. It is my wish that Estonia should take the lead in the field of energy production. This means a variety of energy production from wind, solar energy and biogas to the introduction of hydrogen. But it also means sustainability. The merely larger and more diverse areas of electricity generation do not meet our zero energy objective. In order to meet Europe-wide and also global climate targets, we have created a CO2 quota system. Our common European objective is also the aim of the Estonian state. If we have a national target, perhaps we should ask ourselves whether this should also be the goal of every person and local government. The lower the level we delegate this goal, the better everyone understands that it is a joint effort and effort of all of us. Maybe one day we will find ourselves in a situation where we have a quota trading mechanism between municipalities within Estonia. If the objectives of zero energy were to be made self-governing, we would have unique intra-Estonian quota trading, which would motivate people and local authorities to move towards jointly set goals. It would certainly not be a penalty measure, but a bonus system. Municipalities that fulfil the objectives set faster or more efficiently would receive additional financial support or other incentives to make additional investments in a better living environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U60	You have questions. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good waitress. I have a question about the role of the state and the private sector in the logic of energy sources. We do have different energy sources: renewable energy, oil shale and so on. How do you actually see the current trend of how much the state intervenes and wishes to intervene in the production of energy is that it can do so through Eesti Energia in general. How much, and if so, does it hold back any potential private initiative? Many criticisms have been made about the activities of Eesti Energia, I do not know, for example, when buying wind farms, the Tootsi wind farm and the Four Energia and so on. Several private sector representatives have actually expressed concerns about the fact that the state may have entered or entered this market now too forcefully. It would also be good to know your approach to this. Do you see any problems here, private sector versus state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U62	Thank you, good Sven! With regard to energy security, there is no doubt that there is a critical limit somewhere from which we need to talk about a strategic objective. It must have a strong state seal. But it is clear that the energy sector in terms of production cannot and should not, in my opinion, be a state monopoly. We should move more and more towards where private capital finds a place and an opportunity, precisely an opportunity. There has been talk of innovation, new areas. Risk taking is a sensitive issue. I remember the same story of Toots' wind farm from my experience. In fact, I tried to communicate very openly with all the market participants at the time, and we proposed that we see a resource that could be used on the territory of the county. But it is certainly not the country that is going to do wind research to see if it has any potential or not. We can help with the plans, the arrangements in the community, all the way to building rights. But at the time, the scale that we saw in Toots' wind farm or in Lavassaare's house was considered a bit insane. And actually, there was a message from the private sector that you were directing us to the swamp. But no idea is crazy enough if there's an investor who weighs and eventually finds a point. This was actually done at the time by Eesti Energia; others said to a large extent that they did not see the potential in it. It's hard to draw a line around that someone's been given a discount. Everyone, I say, had a chance at that moment. Perhaps, in terms of capitalisation, it is best for the state firm to do so. But certainly in Parliament, I believe that our common starting point must be that, if we are also talking about moving towards climate neutrality as a country, this market must be kept open and it must be the country that creates the conditions and not complete itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U63	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You gave an example of a very accurate and, in my opinion, a metaphorical stool that all three legs should be equal in terms of energy security. Then this stool stays on and you can sit on it. That's right. But coming to this day, or it would be better to say, looking at tomorrow, how does it feel: which foot of them tends to be short tomorrow, and which one we may be betting too much on? It's not gonna help if we take one leg long and the other two are short. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U65	Thank you, Heiki, for the question. It seems to me that we live in such a time, a society where change is taking place so quickly that we are in a bit of trouble in their management process. New generations grow on, but older generations, who have their own habits, do not orient so quickly, and then this kind of dissonance occurs between the young generation and the older generation. It is not a question of not wanting to change, but simply of being accompanied at a different pace. And when we talk in this Chamber about strategies, about major directions, about common European aspirations, about risks, I believe that you, too, as a self-governing figure, actually perceive that questions are asked below, which were on the table ten years ago. In fact, the whole communication is flawed, the partnership is flawed and maybe the legal bases are flawed in their origins. It's not possible to be partners when one of us is pushed under the little brother's desk and they say we're doing this, but you have to endure. This is a place of very serious thinking, it is a waste management problem in the environmental perspective of Estonia, or it is the same as energy science, to the enhancement of bio-resources. This is very important for communicating and writing about the motivation package for the legal space. If we don't, then believe me, every person needs more and more space around him and he's doing everything he can to help lawyers to secure this space around him.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U66	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U67	Thank you! Honourable waitress! You started talking about defective communication, and I'm going to continue with partially flawed statistics because you also mentioned waste management. I remember that there have been such statements from the media that there are 35 times more hazardous waste in Estonia than in Europe as a whole, and there was also a reference to oil shale energy and the oil shale industry, where 98% or 97% of these hazardous waste was to be generated. I would remind you that it was only during the previous government that oil shale ash was removed from the list of hazardous waste on the basis of the work carried out by scientists at the University of TUT and the University of Tartu. Thus, nine and a half million tons of hazardous waste immediately disappeared from the statistics in the form of the same oil shale ash. What is your comment: how much does statistics play here? Didn't we paint Estonia and oil shale energy blacker than it really is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U68	Thank you. Well, it's always an option, let's say so. It is indeed a question of statistics. Is it fair to include oil shale waste in this amount of hazardous waste? I don't think so. I will eliminate possible risks, such as phenolic waters and anything else that arises in connection with oil shale and its processing. I'm sure there's a red line or a line I don't know how to break, I don't know. But our universities have determined by research that the extractive material that is brought out of the ground with oil shale is actually a building stone that can be used in road construction in the underlayers where it does not come into contact with oxygen. That's where it fits perfectly. And the Estonian state has taken steps to get the stone standing in the mountains from Ida-Viru County. This would make it possible to leave many holes in a region without digging into Estonia's ground and without damaging people's living conditions. This is a very sustainable way of thinking. Was there a mistake in statistics or not? Well, maybe at one point it was dangerous, but today, research has made it clear that it's not dangerous. I understand that if there was a mistake, the mistake has been corrected, and it needs to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U69	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. As mentioned at the outset, first the representatives of the political groups will get the floor. Dmitri Dmitriev, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U70	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U71	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the nation and the watchers of the transfer! When we talk about security, we usually think about matters relating to the protection of the country and its border and to internal security. An important issue for the functioning of the e-state is also the national issue of energy security and security of supply in Estonia, which is currently being discussed in Parliament. Elering's report on the security of supply of the Estonian electricity system last December raised controversy among experts in the field of energy. The sharp rise in demand and price of electricity in the winter, both in Europe and globally, pointed further to the importance of this issue. Elering's main strategy is to establish transnational connections with the help of which it is hoped to guarantee security of supply to the Estonian state. Unfortunately, the system will work effectively as long as our immediate neighbours have a surplus of electricity that they can and want to sell across borders. Today we live in a society with growing consumption, and electricity consumption is also increasing. In order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, more and more talk is being made about the need to electrify industry and transport. Since electricity generation is regulated to accurately reflect consumption, production capacity must be able to be planned and regulated according to load. The greater the share of power plants with an uncontrolled production cycle in the electricity system, the more difficult the task of keeping the system in operation will become. The power supply must also be provided under conditions when the wind is not blowing and the sun is not shining and therefore the role and importance of the controlled power cannot be underestimated. We need to find mechanisms to keep sufficient controlled capacity in the reserve. This role can be played by Narva power plants for as long as we do not have a better technological solution. In parallel, ways must be sought to reduce consumption, emissions by moving together towards cleaner and climate-friendly electricity generation. The problem of security of supply has already been referred to in the past by Professor Alar Konist of the Institute of Energy Technology at Tallinn University of Technology as well as by Kalev Kallemets, CEO of Fermi Energia, who in the near future drew attention to 2026 when the Baltic States unify themselves from the Russian electricity system. This could put security of supply at risk here. This is why the previous government also gave a guideline that Eesti Energia must keep the electricity generation capacity managed in the coming years to 1000 megawatts, which corresponds to Estonia's average consumption. We need to be ready at any moment for situations where there are few operational capacities in the whole region and all countries have a desire to buy some more online. Estonia must have the capacity to cover Estonia's needs. This is an essential guarantee for the functioning of the e-state and its important parts. The real problem of security of supply was experienced by energy engineers last winter when the European electricity system was at the brink of collapse in January. There were also problems in the Baltic States when the Lithuanian Masudio Reserves did not start in January. And if Mr Veskimägi claims that we have enough production transmission capacity, in fact, at the beginning of the year the Narva power plants were filling the gap caused by the low production of renewable energy, the production of which at peak exceeded 1000 megawatt-hours. At this point, I would like to highlight the decisions taken by the previous government, which contributed to increasing security of supply, achieving climate objectives and creating a more realistic picture of environmental issues. In addition to the technological innovations developed and implemented by Eesti Energia, the decision of the previous government to replace oil shale with biomass in Narva power plants has contributed significantly to reducing CO2 emissions. With this step, we increased the production of renewable energy in Estonia on the one hand and improved the competitiveness of the plants on the electricity market on the other. It was also a signicant decision to remove oil shale ash from the list of hazardous waste and to treat it as conventional waste. The previous government based its decision on researchers' studies at the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology. This allows a wider recycling of oil shale ash as well as export opportunities. For example, studies commissioned by the environmental company Ragn-Sells have led to a unique technology that can produce climate-neutral calcium carbonate from oil shale ash. It can be used in the production of paper, plastics and building materials. Climate-neutral calcium carbonate has also attracted interest in other parts of the world. I therefore support more extensive research into oil shale waste so that we can make the most of Estonia's main mineral resource. Unfortunately, the consumer receives electricity from the plug and problems are not seen until the electricity is lost or the bill for the electricity used is too high at the end of the month. I come back to the winter situation when two million consumers were sitting in Texas for days without electricity and the price of electricity was $9,000 a megawatt-hour. In January, electricity in Japan cost about $1000 per megawatt-hour for about two weeks. Therefore, we cannot rely solely on renewable sources that, unfortunately, depend on weather conditions. Under the current circumstances, reliable production capacities with minimum carbon emissions must form an important part of the capacity portfolio in Estonia. And as long as we are all dealing with the problems of consumer flexibility and energy storage and we are developing the hydrogen or methanol economy, Estonia's role in ensuring energy security continues to be on oil shale power plants, which have so far ensured the stability of our energy economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U73	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Annely Akkermann, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U74	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking a lot about security, and at the moment there is the most passionate debate in our house on military security, which has unexpectedly landed a passionate debate about the orchestra and the importance of one million in national defence. However, it is overlooked that defence costs will increase by 50 million next year, reaching 712 million. We are also talking a lot about security in terms of food, the supply of food to the population. Agricultural subsidies in the next seven years will be 1.4 billion in the European Union, this is the part that Estonian farmers will receive as subsidies from the European Union, so that Estonia will be equipped with food. The Emergency Act also provides for the creation of food supplies. We are talking about security in terms of supplying liquid fuels. We even have a liquid fuel reserve law. Unfortunately, we are talking disproportionately little about energy security and security of supply, in two sides of this one coin. However, in the case of the energy economy, the need to ensure security of supply and security cannot be forgotten for a moment. Energy is very complicated. Dealing with energy requires a deep knowledge, a long view of the past and the future. Estonia has a world-class oil shale industry that was founded in the early 20th century, almost 100 years ago, and is expected to be closed in the mid-21st century. It could be 20 to 30 years from now. But do we really know with which we replace oil shale energy and are we technically prepared to produce and deliver the necessary amount of carbon-free energy instead of oil shale energy? These questions are at least unanswered to me. But in energy, 2050 is already tomorrow, and it is somewhat frightening. Hardly any of us are supporters of oil shale mines, logging sites, solar and wind parks in this hall or even in Estonia for their own sake. But those who want the room to be warm and white, who want the computer and phone to work, just have to put up with them. We learned from Professor Konist's excellent presentation that the European Union is already in energy deficit today and will only grow in the visible future. Who didn't remember the postwar years or the '80s, it became known during the Coronary Apandemia that under the conditions of the deficit, facial masks and vaccine doses were not shared with good neighbors. And there was a scratch in my ear, and in fact that was why I came here before you, that Riho Terras said that hydrogen technology in Estonia was Professor Enn Lusti's lobby, which he can do from time to time. Dear waitress Riho Terras! The least you could have done in your presentation is to leave a respected professor and academic non-retrospective lobbyist. The Institute of Chemistry at the University of Tartu, led by Enn Lusti, comes from a remarkable number of basic knowledge that has among the most innovative companies Elcogen and Skeleton in Estonia. Academic Enn Lusti's pedagogical and research is indeed outstanding and hopefully he will have enough fun to invent, teach and promote hydrogen technologies for many years to come. There is much talk about hydrogen technologies in Europe. Much more is being done in the United States than in Europe today. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U75	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U76	Apart from America and Europe, scientific articles are published hugely in China. In China, more scientific articles on hydrogen technology appear than in the USA and the European Union. The Chinese have realized that in the sense of mankind's time, fossil fuels are final, but the sun and the wind are eternal. And in order to last through the ages, mankind must learn to survive without fossil fuels sooner or later. It was said that the Dutch energy supply covers 7% of wind energy. However, the three North Sea counties in the Netherlands have set themselves the goal of becoming a Hydrogen Valley by paraphrasing Silicon Valley, of course. In the North Sea, large-scale wind farms are planned to produce green hydrogen. The Dutch State has also used its embassies to popularise hydrogen technology in the Netherlands. The Embassy organises seminars and is likely to contribute to all of Estonia's hydrogen technology seminars with the latest applied research. Indeed, I attend a seminar on hydrogen technology once a quarter, and every time I hear something new from it. You can see every time that it's just a little bit more advanced with the hydrogen usage studies. And not only are Americans, Dutch and Chinese engaged in integrating hydrogen as an energy carrier into their energy portfolios. World countries that already have a hydrogen strategy are responsible for 70% of world growth. Finally, let the energy portfolio be diverse. In the visible future, oil shale, coal, natural gas and oil as well as wind, sun, wood and biomass will have a place there. What is changing, however, is changing: the proportion of fossil fuels must decrease and the share of renewable energy sources must increase. And this must be done in such a way that equipment is secure and secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U77	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say a few words on behalf of our Group of the Fatherland. I think this debate was very good today. We talked about various issues concerning energy security and different forms of energy. And there were quite a few questions I'd like to stop for a second. They are also partly contradictory: renewable versus non-renewable, exports versus imports and energy security, state versus private. Under different rates and with different levels of attention, all these issues were on the table today. I will first start with export versus import and energy security. As we know, for a long time, Estonia was one of the few European countries that was independent of energy, and more importantly, it was able to export energy. Today we have come to a situation where we have taken on this role, which is practically in all other European countries, and this is, unfortunately, a situation in which we ourselves are no longer able to guarantee on our own the volume that we need every day. We need to buy more energy from other countries. I think that in this place, we will also have something to think about in the future, which steps we should take to raise our level of security. All the more reason to consider that we have a big plan. And this big plan is for 2025 to reach a situation where we are de-syncing ourselves from Russia. It must not be forgotten that there is, in fact, a situation where, in our frequency system, security of supply, it should be withdrawn from this remote control, which is dependent on Russia. This is today's actual situation. And we expect that after 2025 we will be able to reach a situation where real real desynchronousisation will take place and we will connect ourselves to the continental European frequency band. However, in this case too, the situation arises that this connection is essentially guaranteed through a single overhead line. And now the question is whether, as a country, we are actually prepared to ensure that, in essence, our potential production facilities or the different directions that we are developing here, we will have the energy we need even if crises can come. And, unfortunately, life shows that these crises have inevitably existed before and will continue to occur in the future. And then, too, we must ensure that the state is able to obtain energy. This problem is actually up a lot. And from here, we're about to make it to operationally renewable and non-renewable energy sources. We understand that in order to increase our energy security, we can no longer produce oil shale energy at least in the amount we produced before. For various reasons, mainly due to the rise in CO2 prices, we are essentially excluded from the market by our technology. And so we are increasingly moving towards renewable energy sources. And, of course, the question is, what role does the state play? We see that more attention has been paid to solar energy in particular. Certain steps taken by the State in the form of subsidization led to a situation where solar parks were created far more than expected at the beginning, but this money is clearly coming from the taxpayer's wallet, from the taxpayer's pocket. We always have to rely on... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U79	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U80	Wind farms will certainly also play an important role in the future. And when you look at land-based wind farms and sea wind parks, the benefits of sea wind parks are clearly better than those of land-based wind farms. So this is definitely one step in Estonia that sea wind parks will actually be created. As far as our power plants are concerned, I would say that Estonia Energia has actually done well. If you look at thermal power plants, Auvere and the Baltic Power Plant, they have brought themselves into a situation where other fuels are increasingly being used alongside oil shale. According to my information, Auvere already has the ability to work in a situation where the share of oil shale is actually only 5%. All other capabilities have increased and can be used mainly for oil production by-products, ewe gas and also waste wood. And I stress once again what I said when I asked my question. We have three important things that practically other countries in Europe do not have. The first, most important thing: non-renewable energy sources. It is certainly not very popular to talk about this right now, but we do have one thing that many others do not have. It's a resource. If you don't have the resources, for example, if you have 30 reasons to lose the war and you don't have the powder, then the other 29 reasons don't matter. We have the resource, we have the oil shale, we have the technology and we have the knowledge for a hundred years. These are important components of this 'energy war'. I have said more than once that we should make the maximum effort under existing laws, including by interacting with Europe, to take advantage of the advantages we have. I'm sure it's important. Finally, the subject that was on the table today was: state versus private. It has been said several times that the state has made various investments. Mostly Eesti Energia has made various investments and must understand that Eesti Energia wants to diversify its portfolio so that it is not dependent solely on oil shale and related activities. So he's really entered wind farms. But I think we should definitely pay more attention to this issue. We should create a situation in which, on the one hand, as I have said before, the state should participate in it in such a way that it has clear strategic interests. However, this must be done in a balanced way so that there is no situation in which at one point private companies lose interest in participating in the market. It's always harder to take part next to the country. The state always has money for a long time, it has cheaper money and, let's just say, it always has more money than a private company. That is, I think, the point of balancing energy on the energy market so that private companies do not lose interest in investing. Otherwise, the private company competes, it's Toots' wind farm, it's four-Energy purchases, but the state always has a longer gun in its hand. But thank you, I think it was a good discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U81	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! We have a proverb, so don't spit in the old well until the new one's ready. Again, don't spit in the old well until the new well is ready. But what do we do? We quietly kill the dairy cow that gives us milk. And then we're worried about how energy security is gonna fluctuate around here and everywhere else, which is why we're facing the situation that tomorrow maybe there's no electricity coming out of this socket if we want to. Ida-Virus was once such an institution as the oil shale research institute led by Professor Soone. Oil shale chemistry was developed there, oil production methods were developed. When I was a farmer, Soone often came to me to tell me how the same hydrogen method is able to extract oil from oil shale in such a way that the carbon share decreases drastically. We tried to do this at the time, but it was like throwing peas against the wall. No one was interested in this at the time, since there were cheaper methods of producing oil and electricity. Today, we see that hydrogen production and the use of hydrogen have much more prospects than in their own time. I think the Chinese, too, took over the idea of the Soone or at least wanted to take it. So we are facing the problems that we started creating for ourselves years ago. And as my former colleague here said, we have to deal with this more seriously tomorrow. It is true that we should have dealt with this much more seriously yesterday, because today we are in this position. I asked the esteemed professor what would happen to the capacities that investors do not want to put their resources under. What about our trained frame? We know that the entire mining industry was not trained in Estonia at the time, but these people came through the Ministry of Coal. And the same old oil shale and mining men run our companies, and they've trained our young mountainmen too. But there are no students now, as we heard from an authoritative speaker here, who knows all this better than we do. So where do we get to now? What do we have to do? We must, of course, continue to work on this problem, and it is, of course, nice that Mr Terras, Member of the European Parliament, also came here to talk about this issue, and he also takes this view. All the members of the Ida-Virumaa Support Group have talked about this, raised this problem, but often in this very Chamber, when we talk about it, we are looked at in tales. Because it's more popular to go with the greens, play poison greens. We hope that we will become smarter, that our decisions will be more constructive and that we will not stop having the resource we have, and we will use it to the end, we will make it into chemical products. And as long as we can, we'll use him to generate electricity. Thank you and the power and the wisdom of all the decision-makers!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U83	Since first we get the word for factions, I'll give the floor to Kalvi Tough next.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U84	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, For the last ten to twenty years, the Social Democrats have been talking about the importance of using renewable energy in Estonia, also energy security, and how little ambition Estonian governments have been in reducing CO2 in our energy production over the last ten years. Yes, we would have been a bit more ambitious to bring more renewable energy sources into energy production. Ten years ago, when the Juhan Parts Government and Juhan Parts, as Minister of Economic Affairs, built the Auvere Power Plant, we said that this construction and this investment, this use of oil shale is self-defeating in the long global perspective, maybe just heating up hopes, because the world is moving in the other direction. And now we see, dear friends, that the time for producing oil shale electricity is running out. There is nothing to do, there are new solutions that are completely different. And, of course, renewable energy is today something that develops every minute and every day and comes up with additional new technologies, hydrogen, etc. Now, the question has often been how renewable energy sources guarantee energy security. But here we are taking quite a step towards ensuring energy security. We are moving towards a common energy system in the Nordic countries, where we will ensure our energy security with these connections. The energy parks that are currently being built in Paldiski will have large-scale storage systems. These are the options in which we can also ensure security of energy supply by using renewable energy sources. Dear friends, this may seem a little harsh, but although oil shale has recently provided us with a resource for energy security, we really must say today that its time is running out. Certainly, in Ida-Virumaa, people who have been employed in this area must be guaranteed social and economic security and coping with other measures. I am quite sure that a very large part of this beautiful sunny day of light burning in this hall has come from renewable energy sources. I hope that a lot of people in this Chamber have already taken different measures to produce it in their everyday household. And I hope that in this Chamber of the Riigikogu we will discuss more and more this year how we can motivate people in households to produce energy from a renewable source. Thank you. And thank you to the Isamaa Group for bringing this so important subject to this great Chamber of Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U85	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U86	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. If you will allow me, I will perform as the mouthpiece of Riho Terras, a honourable Member of the European Parliament. Our rules and procedures do not give him the opportunity to speak again. And his request relates to the erecting of the topic of academic Enn Lust. He said in his presentation that this hydrogen thematics is one of the enthusiasts of the hobby. He did not say first of all the lobby, but said a hobby, and he wanted to express his thinking as expressed later in the context of the hydrogen strategy. This strategy cannot be based on a single academic, albeit capable, but must be a national strategy. This has been said in the interests of the verbatim report, since Annely Akkermann, a good colleague, pointed out this issue. Let it be included in the verbatim. But once again, thank you for betting! I also hope that there was an interesting debate and maybe it will take Estonia forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U87	Thank you. That concludes the part of the negotiations. We can count this item as exhausted. Now let's make an extension decision. We have received a proposal from the Reform Party Group to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted or until 14 p.m. We have to vote on this. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has proposed that today's plenary session be extended to 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U88	The proposal was supported by 30 delegates, no respondents and no abstentions. Our working day will last until 14:00 in the big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U89	We will proceed with the agenda: First reading of the draft veterinary law 384 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Urmas Kruuse, Minister for Rural Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to present the draft veterinary law drawn up by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. This draft was designed to implement, including the European Union Animal Health Regulation applicable from 21 April, which ensures the implementation of uniform requirements throughout the European Union. Animal health and veterinary matters are currently governed by the Law on Veterinary Management, the Law on Disease Control and the Law on Trade in and Import and Export of Animals and Animal Products. The structure and text of these laws need to be substantially amended in order to avoid duplication of directly applicable legislation of the European Union. The new comprehensive text brings together, harmonises and updates veterinary and animal health legislation and implements the European Union Animal Health Regulation and other directly applicable Union regulations in the veterinary field. The draft defines those provisions which remain within the competence of the Member State and those implementing procedures which are necessary for a more precise presentation of the requirements. The new law will help to ensure better legal clarity for the company and coherence of Estonian law with European Union legislation. The new principles and obligations which do not derive from the new European Union law have not been included in the draft as compared to the current law. The amendments are necessary to ensure that the text of the law is better understood, specified or updated. As a significant change, undertakings in certain activities will be relieved of the requirement of authorisation, which will be replaced by a notification obligation. A licence is only required for companies trading in the common market of the European Union. In the case of traders trading animals and propagating material within Estonia, the submission of an economic activity notification is sufficient. At the same time, the notification obligation extends to the keeping of certain types of animals, such as camels and cervids and pet animals which are reared for sale either in Estonia or in another country. In addition, the range of activities for which it is necessary to apply for a licence to trade in the common market of the European Union, such as collection centres for dogs and cats and ferrets and shelters from which animals are also moved to another Member State, extends. The change does not entail additional activities or obligations for undertakings already operating with a licence or notification obligation, as the notification obligation is already deemed to be fulfilled. The keeper of a certain farm animal must in future draw up and keep up to date a biosecurity plan. thought-out measures to prevent animal diseases help to prevent the spread of animal diseases. The requirement already applies to pig holdings and aquaculture enterprises. In the future, this requirement will be extended to other sectors on a risk-based basis. The Minister responsible for the sector is authorised by regulation to establish a list of animal species for which a biosecurity plan is to be drawn up. The biosecurity plan need not be drawn up for domestic farming. There are no formal or other requirements for the biosecurity plan. The plan may be drawn up in a form suitable for the undertaking and the time taken to draw up and maintain it depends on the size of the undertaking. As regards the application of the European Union Animal Health Regulation, the grounds for the prevention and control of animal diseases will change. Local and national disease control committees provided for in the current law need not be set up. In the event of an outbreak of an animal disease, the animal health regulation of the European Union, the contingency plan and the emergency law shall be used. The Veterinary Act updates the liability provisions and increases the penalty rates for breach of the legal requirements imposed on legal persons. The maximum levels of the financial penalty imposed on legal persons will be between EUR 20000 and EUR 50000. The level of fines imposed on natural persons has not been changed compared to the law in force. Due to the practical need, the provisions on the payment of supervisory fees will be clarified, including changes to the procedure for the recovery of unpaid fees. In addition, the draft also contains some technical changes that are in order. The date of entry into force of the draft is set at 1 July 2021. I very much hope that amendments will be made during the procedure and that the law can enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U91	Thank you. Questions can be asked to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then I call Merry Aart, Vice-Chairman of the Rural Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U92	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister has already told me all the more important things. Perhaps a few repetitions and I would also like to show you that this law is actually quite long and thorough. He'll read it! As the Minister said, on 21 April this year, the European Union's Animal Health Regulation was applicable, and in this context it became necessary to start discussing this veterinary law as well. It could be said that there are currently about 400 earlier legal acts in three laws, and there will be about 30 legal acts in this new law. So the job has been very serious. The Minister also said that the veterinary law would consist of three laws: the Law on the control of animal diseases, the Law on the organisation of veterinary diseases, the Law on the import and export of animals and their products. The new compact law contains 136 sections and eight chapters. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, we discussed this law for a very long time and in depth. We had people from the Ministry of Rural Affairs talking. Pille Tammemägi compared the veterinary law with the law in force and stated that the principles generally do not change, but certain parts have been specified for the operator. The general principle is that all commercial animal activities must be notified to the State. The Act regulates the professional activities of veterinarians, the rules for keeping and monitoring animals, the requirements for trade in and control of animals and products of animal origin, disease control, veterinary supervision and control and liability. Simply put, the change concerns notification and application for authorisation. Notification shall be mandatory for commercial farmed animals where they are kept domestically. A licence must be applied for when these animals are taken out. This law entails a general obligation to draw up a biosecurity plan, as the Minister has already said. We have new species in Estonia with camels and cervids still have them and they must be registered in the PRIA. The marking devices used to mark animals must be approved by the Agriculture and Food Board. There was interest in the fact that up to now farm work, activities with pets, dogs and cats were not regulated. The answer was that the obligation to notify the State of its activities must be given by law. The dog farmers didn't have that before. The kennels had their own strong internal regulations, but there was no direct obligation to provide such information in the past. The veterinary law imposes an obligation to notify when keeping pet animals for commercial purposes. This is the result of a directly applicable regulation of the European Union, which aims to organise cross-border movements and covert and illegal activities with pet animals. If the company is not in the register, it will not be able to obtain a certificate or certificate if it wants to sell the animal somewhere. There was also a question about the veterinary brothers: what their status is. It turned out that in general a veterinarian has an academic degree in veterinary medicine, but there are also vet assistants in Estonia who are trained in Särevere and who receive an invitation according to the professional standard. Since 1999, the function of the veterinary corps has been lost. They asked if the veterinarian's assistant was essentially a veterinarian. It is not, and if it is to be reintroduced, the law should be amended. This person can help a veterinarian if the veterinarian needs to, but he does not have the right to be diagnosed. It was also asked about the level of fines and it became clear that the level of fines for natural persons would not change. The fine shall be limited to a maximum of 300 daily base units. But the penalty rates of legal persons are changing, which are in the way of time. They shall amount to a maximum of EUR 50000 and shall apply to particularly dangerous animal diseases where the establishment has failed to comply with the requirements to be complied with. There was also the question of what is the low-risk business activity in the context of the company's effects depend on it for penalties and injunctions. The answer was that it meant the scope of action. In terms of the spread of animal diseases, the high level of activity is the highest risk. The Committee on Rural Affairs has taken a consensual decision to propose that 384 plenary agendas be put on today's agenda and to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that Merry Aart, Vice-President of the Committee on Rural Affairs, be appointed rapporteur. These were consensual decisions. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U93	There's some questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U94	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! First of all, thank you for a very meaningful explanation. But I have a question. We're talking animal diseases here, only animal diseases. However, there are also avian influenza and everything else. Does this bill only talk about animals and not about birds?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U95	It's about birds, too. Avian influenza is on this list of diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U96	Please, Aivar Chef again!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U97	Thank you. It didn't come out of either report, I'm sorry. But the second question is that it is possible to fine, as you pointed out, with EUR 50000. Who is entitled to impose this fine and on what grounds is the decision to determine the amount to be paid to the undertaking?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U98	Thank you for your question. If you do not know the answer, you must first thank me for the question. I assume the Agriculture and Food Board is this, to whom these diseases are subject, and also to crises, are under their control. So I assume that the fine will be imposed by the Agricultural Office. But I'll be more specific, and if I'm lost, I'll tell you. Vice-Chairman Martin Helme: Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U99	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! How big was the fine before? We could figure out how much this has increased in percentage terms. We know that here, even if schools were obliged, that if you do not have a special education teacher, there would be a fine of EUR 10,000. The rise was still colossal. At the same time, it is said that the 20% increase in the fine is unreasonable. Can you tell me what the fine was before?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U100	I owe you an answer. It's embarrassing, but I owe you an answer. There has been talk of EUR 20000 to EUR 50000. But how much it was before, I can't remember. So this is for a legal person. In the case of a natural person, the rate did not change, the fine being up to 300 daily base units.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U101	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'd like to elaborate on an invitation from the Feds Scriab, or an assistant clerk, whatever he's not called. If a person has ever received this invitation and has not been active in this field in the meantime, how can this be done if he now wants to act again as an assistant minister? Is his former training completely useless today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U103	Thank you for your question. I don't understand. He or she shall be able to apply for the fourth level of invitation and be a veterinarian's assistant. However, over time, it has developed so that the VCCs during the holding do not have such a function directly. I know there are some people who would like to have it, but generally, nationwide, like there is no such function. If someone wants it and makes a request, you just have to start changing the law. But that kind of training, that kind of study program, no longer exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U104	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U105	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I kept thinking about being a natural person and a legal person. We know that we always make all the changes to the law because villains find a grey area in the law. To illustrate: I have sheep farming, and I also have personal sheep like pets. And then they come to deal with this violation. I say that my sheep are all meat long ago or mean, company, and those who are here now are my pets. That the difference is large, EUR 300 or EUR 50000 fine. Are there any such moments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U106	Thanks for the question, Tarmo. Sheep are not considered pet animals. Those who are are farm animals. You may also consider horses as pets, but they are not considered pets. They're still farm animals. [[There's something going on in the hall.]] I mean, if the animals aren't on the company account, you don't get any support from them, and they're like, how do I say, like underground activity. In Estonia, livestock farmers are obliged to register their business in PRIA and animals must be on the animal register if you want to be respected at national level. And then there will be all the benefits, all the possibilities. I don't think it's worth doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U107	Thank you. No further questions. It is possible to open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. And then it has to be read that the proposal of the commission is to finish the first reading of Bill 384. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 15 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U108	Let's go to the third item on today's agenda. This is the first reading of the Bill 362 of Amendment of § 97 of the Construction Code, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. The rapporteur is Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U109	Thank you very much to the President of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, Today began with a very important debate on security and, of course, I listened attentively. We will now continue with security issues. It certainly concerns the security of people, how safe, how safe, how conveniently used our public space, our roads, our streets and, of course, the sidewalks in particular. I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Social Democratic Party Group and the Construction Code, which I have initiated, which aims to repeal § 97 (6) of the Construction Code. In fact, according to the current construction code, the owner of a plot of land adjacent to a road in a city, village or village must arrange for the cleaning of the pavement between the road and its immovable property, including the control of snow and slipperyness, to enable safe passage on the pavement. Putting such an obligation on the owner is in some way comparable to putting an obligation, for example, on some people living in the city to clean the mayor's office car every week or to go to the hallway of the city government to dust. It's city property, city roads, and we're obliging some people who have real estate along these roads to keep it safe. Paragraph 97 (6) of the Construction Code provides for this burden as a direct obligation which does not allow the local government to consider imposing this burden at all. I mean, in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, the legislator has said that this is the case, and there is no other way to organise it. Practical life... I can speak most as a resident of Tallinn, but honourable colleagues live elsewhere in Estonia and represent different regions. They know the situation much better than I do. Practical life has shown that placing such a burden on people is not right. Real estate owners cannot all properly fulfil this obligation; they cannot handle the task of maintaining pavements. Sometimes, of course, it is also because of people's negligence, caring for their responsibilities, but there are also vital reasons. There are very elderly people who own a house, which may have a large property, with very many meters of public space on the property, on the sidewalks. Perhaps it is too much for an elderly person to keep it in order at all times. And I remind you of our low pensions. A very large proportion of older people living alone live in relative poverty. They may be overwhelmed by this obligation. In practice, it is also not adequately monitored. There is also the aspect at stake here that the owners of apartments and houses are local government taxpayers, who seem to have reason to assume that, by such a nature, a purely public function is carried out by the municipality whose budget their tax money comes into. The walkways, as I said, are part of the public space, and right now we are not actually guaranteeing all people a year's opportunity to use the public space. Above all, let us think about the elderly! When the pavement is not cleaned, or there is only a small passageway because of large snow purchases, let's think about the parents! It is not really possible to move there with a pram, even though it is not for twins. Let's think about people with mobility problems! There was a lot of talk about it that winter. There was a case in the city centre of Tallinn where an elderly woman on her way to the eye clinic could not go back or forth on the pavement in the centre of Tallinn, in the centre of the capital of the Republic of Estonia. It was a means to walk, a person using a frame. And the only reason he got out of this situation was because the news reporters on Channel 2 spotted him and helped him see a doctor. It was a very touching news section, I suggest you watch it. Yes, it was difficult for that man, with tears in his eyes. And then the deputy mayor of this field in Tallinn announced that he should take a taxi, which he even went to walk down that street. I am of the opinion that in the capital city, but also in every other large city and small town, an elderly person must be able to reach his or her home shop or bus stop and bus stop to the health centre. Well, in the 21st century and in the sense of the 21st century, we must still not be successful and prosperous in Estonia, that we cannot walk on the streets. Of course, people are also seriously injured by falling on the road. During the preparation of this draft, we took out the data, contacted Tallinn Ambulance and Northern Estonia Regional Hospital. And these are very remarkable data. In January 2021, an emergency department of the North Estonian Regional Hospital was contacted for injuries related to falling on ice and snow in 218 cases. And if you recall this winter, then actually January wasn't the worst month. The biggest and most extraordinary slip was actually at the end of February. But in January, 218 people were forced to go to an ambulance. And we're only talking about one hospital, the PERH ER. Twenty-five times the fall resulted in a head injury. People will fall head to head on the streets of the capital of the Republic of Estonia! In 17 cases, the result was chest injury, 47 were probably one of the most common consequences, elbow and elbow injury, 39 were knee and lower leg injury. If you look at the situation a year earlier, when the slippage wasn't so bad, there were 28 of these outpatient visits. So a year earlier in the same period 28, this year alone one month of 218 people. You're all imagining what it's like for a head to fall apart at minus degrees in a street room, what a danger it is to human health. You can imagine what it means when a person has injured a chest or an elbow, an elbow. It still means inability to work for a while, being absent from work, very difficult to care for young children. And when we talk about older people, we are certainly talking about an increased risk of irreversible deterioration in human health as a result of these injuries. And that's a serious problem. The opinion of the Estonian people has also been asked about this problem. In February of this year, Norstat, a research company, conducted a survey of snow cleaning obligations on the sidewalks. And notice: this was a survey to which a thousand people responded, and 73% of respondents considered cleaning the pavement to be the responsibility of the local government. Three quarters of people think, of course, who else, if not the local government, is responsible for making sure that the sidewalk that belongs to him is in order and I can walk this sidewalk. During the preparation of this draft, we have asked for the opinion of the Estonian Owners' Confederation, the Estonian Association of Apartments Associations, the Estonian Association of Municipalities and Cities and asked for the information already mentioned from Tallinn Ambulance and Northern Estonia Regional Hospital. The opinions received can be found in the draft explanatory memorandum. I strongly suggest you get acquainted with them, there are more detailed data on injury statistics that we received from the North Estonian Regional Hospital. I can tell you that the Central Union of Estonian Owners supports this draft and considers its adoption very important. The Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives also finds that the draft is very important, the law definitely wants to be amended. In fact, I understand the concerns of local government representatives in the proposed form of the Estonian Association of Municipalities and Cities, this draft is not supported. This would entail additional costs for local authorities and it is not known how these additional costs are to be financed. That's why they're skeptical about it. At the same time, several municipalities with whom I have communicated outside the process say that the idea and direction are correct, but the question is how to organise it more accurately. I myself remember from the time I was North-Tallinn senior, that those people in our house who were responsible for the maintenance of the streets, those specialists who dealt with it every day, were of the opinion that this should definitely be the responsibility of the city. And they tried to make me deal with it so that the subject would be on my desk. Perhaps another positive effect that this change would have. Today, we know that all kinds of obstacles, such as road signs or pipe barriers, are often installed on the sidewalks that prevent wheelchair users or pedestrians with a pram. I think, at least in the case of Tallinn, I am absolutely convinced that if the obligation to maintain the sidewalks goes to the city, then the city will certainly also look at the sidewalks being wide enough to allow machines to move there, so that the work should not be done manually. And in this regard, the mistake of installing posts that interfere with a light - moving or a cyclist is not made at the origin of new streets. It can be prevented. So this change would have a number of positive effects. Yes, also in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the question of costs arose during the preparation of the draft at first reading. We don't really know how big they could be. The City Government of Tallinn has said that it would cost them EUR 20 million to take over this obligation, but if you look at this analysis more closely, if that is the case, it is not one A4 page. These are very superficial calculations. In fact, Estonia's wealthiest and largest local government has not analysed in depth the costs involved and how this could be organised. The bill has been through the City Council's proceedings, but the city government refused to do this analysis. So even in the case of Tallinn, we do not really know this amount. This is the kind of thing that requires us to discuss the draft here in the honourable Riigikogu and, above all, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, with its members and with its advisers, how we can better know for a second reading that the Riigikogu has greater certainty. But I can tell you that this is certainly not a cost of this magnitude that is beyond the power of the Republic of Estonia in 2021. When people ask me how much it costs to fix the streets, I say it's a good question, but I also ask you what the costs are, when people fall apart, their hands fall apart, their legs are broken, they can't go to work, and the need for health services is therefore more than 200 referrals to the EMO within a month. All of this, too, brings great costs to the Estonian state. By the end of the day, I think it is also a matter of country integrity. What kind of land is this, who says we're super successful on a lot of issues, for the rest of the world to set an example for the rest of the world, but the old people, on their way to the doctor in the center of the capital, fall apart! I think it is important to resolve this matter, and I very much hope that this idea will be supported here in the Riigikogu. The positive sign is certainly that the Commission's proposal to immediately wipe this draft off the table did not have to bounce back. I hope that no one from the political groups will make this proposal either, and we can proceed with the draft procedure in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. That concludes my report and, of course, I am ready to answer any questions from my good colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U110	Thank you. And the co-workers have questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U111	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, That's a very good bill. You gave examples of your hometown in Tallinn, I can give examples of my hometown in Viljandi. We have cities that have many older people because of the demographic situation. They have their own little property. In Viljandi, the council has even been approached with concern about how we can resolve the situation as to whether a care worker comes to help. This bill would certainly solve the situation. The question, however, is that it was indeed not supported by the Cities and Municipalities Association because the municipalities would be given additional responsibilities without having to contribute money. However, I think that good cooperation can still be achieved so that local governments can resolve this problem with the support of the state. How much this cost is indicative, we don't know today. But what is your opinion? This should not be the amount that stops this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U112	Thank you. First of all, I really appreciate it. I myself have had the opportunity to be in Viljandi during the winter, and I have to admit that Viljandi is very beautiful both in winter and in summer. But I think the concern of older people, if people still turn to the local government, is for good reason. After all, there is a similar situation elsewhere in Estonian cities; these concerns are not just in Tallinn. This bill is not just a Tallinn draft. When it comes to comparison with other cities, who go to Helsinki during the winter, it sees that the situation is significantly better there. More importantly, better! It'll do better. With regard to these costs, yes, we do not have the full knowledge today. In order to achieve this, we certainly need to analyse everything in greater depth. I think we have a chance. And that is what we can do in the course of further proceedings. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, colleagues seemed to have a readiness; they could devote the Commission's working time to it. And the last thing I emphasised before is that, on the one hand, it is a cost to the municipalities, but on the other, there is an unspent cost in both money and human health. There are fewer falls and fractures and injuries. I think the sum of the winnings of this bill, no matter how much the price tag will be, is still higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U113	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U114	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, Can you comment on two nuances? One thing is that the subject of this bill has been raised by you at the level of the city of Tallinn. How do you comment on this painful reaction from the city leaders, if I remember this debate correctly in public? And the other side: as the next draft, we're going to process a copy of this bill in this hall. It has been presented by the Isamaa Group, but there are some shortcomings. Can you compare these two drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U115	Yes, thank you! Very relevant questions both. First of all, as far as Tallinn is concerned, in Tallinn City Council, we proposed that the city government be able to analyse how much taking this responsibility into the city could cost, what it means, what additional resources, structures are needed in the city administration. This analysis should be done during the summer, when no one usually thinks about the slickness of the streets, and it should come to the city council with specific financial figures. Then the city council can decide whether Tallinn can or cannot do it. One of the reasons why it was rejected was that the law currently unambiguously places this obligation on the owner of the property. Tallinn interprets it in such a way that we cannot assume this obligation because it is an obligation imposed by law on someone else. In some ways, it is understandable, but on the other hand, of course it does not prevent the capital from making calculations that, if this legislative framework changes, what costs could this entail for the city? This would actually help the Riigikogu to make more precise decisions. So I guess it's still kind of a place for political choices. Today I heard our good colleague Erki Savisaar of the Centre Party say that this could be considered if the municipality were given the opportunity to collect some additional real estate tax in order to finance this work. Tax issue for tax issues. I think that anti-slip treatment of pavement roads is also such an elementary thing that the municipality should also be able to do this without necessarily imposing additional taxes. It's kind of a big deal. As for the Fatherland, I don't know. Of course, the Fatherland has not explained in any way to me that when we put this draft into procedure, why did they hand over another draft with very similar content? But I don't blame them at all. I think it is a good thing that already two political groups here in the Riigikogu, the Social Democrats and the Fatherland, at least agree on the objectives in this respect. We will be able to argue in the Commission about nuances and details on how to get to it. I think that maybe some other parties will come along with this idea and there is hope that it will really be a law. In this sense, I welcome this initiative of the Fatherland, of which it is very patriotic to think about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U116	There are no more questions. Thanks to the waitress! I can call Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, as the next rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U117	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. On 24 March this year, the Social Democrats submitted a draft to the proceedings. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu took it into the procedure the next day and referred it to the Economic Commission, the bill became 362. The representative of the initiator of the draft act spoke thoroughly about its content. The draft itself is simple, only one line: repealing § 97 (6) of the Construction Code. This paragraph 6 contains two and a half lines: in the city, in the village and in the village, the owner of the land adjacent to the road is obliged to arrange for the cleaning of the pavement between the roadway and its immovable property, including the control of snow and slippage, at a level which allows safe passage on the pavement. The presenter of the bill already spoke about the arguments behind this one line. In the Commission too, Mr Kaljulaid presented this draft on 18 May. Jüri Jaanson commented that he was affected by this bill because he has land in Pärnu and is obliged to maintain the pavement. And he pointed out that the cleaning of the sidewalks would be such that the cleaned sidewalk would come away, and then the plow of the city would come and push the snow back from the road to the sidewalk. The analogous and slightly more meaningful draft of the Fatherland will be discussed next, and the Commission has actually dealt with them in a tied manner. But I'm not talking about the Fatherland Bill right now. The speaker noted that Tallinn has calculated that it needs 20 million euros a year when it takes over the responsibility of owners to maintain the sidewalks. According to Raimond Kaljulaid, this amount is slightly overestimated. Mikhail Stalnukhin also pointed out that when the snow rains, a lot of people are needed to clean the pavements out of the snow at the same time. And if local authorities could assume this task, they would have to order this job from clean-up companies, who would find it difficult to raise such large armies for housekeepers who would immediately be able to clean the city's sidewalks within a reasonable period of time. Siim Kallas said that not only do local government roads sometimes get slippery, but they have also fallen on institutions' plots, namely in front of our own house very painfully. Mikhail Stalnukhin also commented that when the local government starts collecting money from housing associations, for example, to cover the costs of cleaning the sidewalks, it is quite difficult because housing associations are already in a difficult situation during the current health crisis. And Kristen Michal asked to comment on the distribution of expected tasks in view of the poor street space that does not allow organized cleaning. Kristen Michal also wondered where the Commission could obtain relevant information and analyses on how much such an obligation could cost the local authority. The Government of the Republic has sent an opinion on the draft, that is a negative. However, this negative response was accompanied by the position of the Ministry of Finance: it is recommended that consideration be given to the possibility that the local government may be given the right to take on part of the people, from some social groups, to the obligation to maintain the pavement. It is likely that older people or social groups, whose health does not allow the pavement to be kept clean from the front of their property, have been the main consideration. The Commission has adopted procedural decisions and these are: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and to close the first reading. Both proposals were adopted by consensus. This decision was made by the speaker, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U118	Thank you. There are questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U119	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! This debate, where the local government now gets the money. As far as I know, the local government should treat all its citizens equally. This means that those who do not have this sidewalk obligation pay the same taxes as those who, according to their location, have to work for the city of Tallinn free of charge. Has anyone figured out how much revenue they've lost? People have done this work free of charge for the local government. How many millions has the local government saved during this time, and what has it done to these millions? He should probably start sweeping his own streets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U120	Yes, it can be taken to mean that the local government has saved millions, but it can also be taken to mean that the inhabitants of this local government have saved millions because no taxes have been collected from them to clean up these walkways. Indeed, if the local authority would now like to take the initiative to clean up the pavement, then we should consider extending the tax base. And so it is in many countries. I know that in London, for example, there is a very high welfare fee for which pavement and front lawn courts and waste management are maintained. But it's gonna cost the residents a lot of money. It's quite a lot of money. That's one way. I do not know whether the people of Estonia want to introduce an additional tax to supplement the local government's budget. That's what you should ask them. Perhaps it is possible for the Socialists or the Fatherland to put in place a welfare fee for their electoral programme and see how the electorate responds to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U121	Raimond Kaljulaid, please! Oh, I'm sorry! Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U122	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm sorry that my knowledge of tax policy is not good, but can you tell me right now that we have street lighting right now? What is the percentage of the population? I'll be honest with you, I didn't order street lighting, but it does exist. And now that the local government says that it doesn't want to enlighten itself, should we bear the cost ourselves? Or are we gonna put everything in front of that Cyclops light? Because when the city says that maybe now people could have their own reflectors... The president said we'd light the flashlight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U123	In tax theory, there is a term such as "common goods," for which it is not possible to invoice separately in such a way. A thing like street lighting is undoubtedly a common good and money is collected from all taxpayers in general. The local government's budget receives a land tax that can cover utilities such as street maintenance or street lighting. However, the local government can also do so through a compensation fund allocated from the state budget. This is essentially the decision of the local government how and from which sources it will cover these costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U124	I'm sorry about the mess! Somehow I had the impression that the questions were over. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U125	Thank you! Dear colleague Annely, I would also like to clarify one thing, just in case, for the sake of the verbatim. A few moments ago, in a specific way, you said that if such an obligation were to come to the local authorities, the word'must' had to be introduced for this purpose by an additional tax or tax liability. Point one. The same example of Tallinn: Tallinn's budget is over 800 million euros, and even if this most pessimistic assessment of their own, that we are talking about 20 million euros a year, is true, then this does not necessarily mean that Tallinn has to introduce a new tax to ensure safe movement on the streets. Secondly, please specify that you were not in the Commission at the moment, you are a representative of the Commission, such a view that this necessarily involves the introduction of a new tax liability. This conclusion was not reached in the Commission, was it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U126	Yes, indeed, this was not achieved in the Commission. However, this letter from the Ministry of Finance, which was sent to us as an addition, refers to the Chancellor of Justice's view that placing the cleaning of the pavement on the local population is not a disproportionate burden. This letter also refers to the Supreme Court's judgments. There's a Supreme Court decision. I didn't bring it here, I'm quoting from head to head this principle without knowing the fine, but the principle remains the same: the local government can put this burden on the owners of the property. But why did I say "must" in a specific way? I think the letter of the Association of Municipalities and Cities had a link to the Supreme Court's decision, which says that if the state assigns tasks to the local government, it must guarantee the tax base and the income of local governments. This position of the Supreme Court exists and was referred to in these annexed letters. But, indeed, it was not on the table at the committee meeting, you are right about that, and I thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U127	Raimond Kaljulaid again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U128	Yes, in the light of this answer, another important clarification. If it is not the case that, indeed, it would be appropriate to provide additional revenue for the municipality in order to impose this additional obligation. However, this does not necessarily mean an increase in some tax rates or the introduction of new taxes. It is also possible for the state to increase the proportion of income tax paid by local governments on persons residing in the territory of the municipality. I'll just give you an example. Once again, I would very much like to stress that this does not automatically mean an additional tax burden. I'm right about that, aren't I?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U129	Yeah, you're absolutely right. If the state undertakes to clean up the pavement from the property owners and makes it the responsibility of the local government, it must make provision for the funding to do so in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Court and it may also make this provision from the state budget. But knowing the current state of the state budget... In short, two thirds of the expenditure of the state budget is collected in taxes and one third of the expenditure of the state budget is covered either by grants from the European Union or by loans. I do not know whether the country can do so, whether it is possible for the country to do so. However, good legislative practice requires the draft to provide an analysis of how much it costs and at what cost it could be covered. This analysis has not been submitted. That's what Kristen Michal asked at the committee meeting. Nor is it stated in the explanatory memorandum that the necessary amount could be allocated to local authorities in order to fulfil this obligation. That is the lack of this bill now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U130	No further questions. Thank you very much to the waitress. We can go to the negotiations. I don't see a negotiation request. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 362. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 15 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U131	We are going to the last, fourth item on the agenda today: First reading of the draft law amending the Building Code and the Local Government Organisation Act (exemption from the obligation to clean up the pavement of homeowners' municipalities). The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U132	The purpose of the draft is to exempt homeowners from the obligation to clean the pavement belonging to the municipalities and to ensure that the public territory is well-established. In order to give the municipalities time to prepare for and symbolically do the cleaning of their walkways, it is foreseen that this law will enter into force on 1 October this year when the day of the municipality is celebrated. According to § 97 (6) of the construction code currently in force, the owner of a plot of land adjacent to the road is obliged to arrange, in the city, in the village and in the village, the cleaning of the pavement between the road and its immovable property, including the protection of snow and slippage, at a level that allows safe passage on the pavement. Paragraph 36 (3) of the Local Government Organisation Act is also repealed, which provides that the burden may be imposed on natural and legal persons in order to ensure good order of the property or other territory in their possession and of the public territory directly adjacent to it. This is a legal obligation imposed on homeowners which is not compensated. Many homeowners, mainly older people, people with special needs, people with health problems, as well as people on duty, are unable to fulfil this obligation properly. For example, in the case of larger snowfalls, snow control on the sidewalks is too much for many because it is difficult to do physical work, which is easier to do using special techniques. It is in the public interest to keep the walkways up and running so that everyone is safe to move. The obligation to maintain walkways for home owners is unfair and, as mentioned earlier, in many cases unworkable. Incorrectness also lies in the fact that, in the case of apartment buildings, the cleaning of the pavement is organised by the cooperative and the contribution of the home owner is limited to paying for such a service through the cooperative. But for many private homes, home owners are expected to have to clean their own sidewalks every day, including snow and slippers, or buy in expensive cleaning services. It is right and fair to exempt all homeowners from the obligation to clean up the pavement belonging to the municipalities and to ensure that the public territory is in good order and to ensure that these walkways are cleaned and the public territory is in good condition by the municipalities. I stress that according to § 6 (1) of the Local Government Organisation Act, it is the task of the local government to organise the maintenance of its roads and streets. This was about the cost of who's paying. According to § 2 (2) (1) of the Road Act, the concept of road also includes pavement. I would like to emphasise once again: the draft aims to exempt homeowners from the obligation to clean up the pavement belonging to the municipalities and from ensuring the proper functioning of the public territory. The law currently in force imposes obligations on homeowners that are not compensated. It is right and fair to exempt all homeowners from cleaning the pavement belonging to the municipalities and from the obligation to ensure the well-being of the public territory, and to ensure that these walkways are cleaned and that the public territory is well-managed by the municipality. There was a question about the previous draft of how it would be compensated for by the municipalities. As I pointed out earlier: according to § 6 (1) of the Local Government Organisation Act, the task of the local government is to organise the maintenance of its roads and streets. That's their mission. It's unbelievable that somewhere in the law someone is assigned to do somebody else's territory for good. It would be about the same if Annely had to clean up my yard and I had to go to her island and start mowing Annely's yard or clearing the road on that island. It is completely incomprehensible how the law has ever been passed in this very hall, that someone is under an obligation to keep someone else's territory in order. Also, if you look at different properties, one has a sidewalk, the other has no sidewalk. Homeowners are treated unequally. Or one has the length of the sidewalk 10 meters, the other has 50 meters. And by 7:00 in the morning, this sidewalk must be cleaned. Someone has a lawn strip between the road and the plot, maybe just a meter, some have 30 meters, and this green area needs to be maintained. And sometimes it happens, like me, that you have a block on the corner, or two sides, and actually I happen to have three sides that I have to keep in order. Lawn mowing is not a problem when the lawn tractor goes to work, but sometimes it strikes. And this job can be done while you can, you don't have to be ready by 7:00 in the morning. But if you happen to work in Tallinn and live in Saaremaa, how do you do it, should you take a plane to Saaremaa every morning? I don't know if there's a plane so early in the morning that seven of us are gonna clear the sidewalk. The hall shakes its head so it doesn't. Then you'll have to order someone and pay for it. And my experience of this winter is as it was in previous winters. When the snow comes and you want to be really good and decent and clear the pavement before seven, then surely a quarter of eight drives by in a plow of a car, pushes half your sidewalk full of snow, and the neighbor smiles: "O this foolish neighbor! Who's so early cleaning their sidewalks! Come on in time, start pushing the nine, the plows have gone away and there is no need to double it." I believe and hope that, although these drafts have been made by the parties currently in opposition, today's coalition will seriously think about this problem and put aside this talk that real estate tax should be introduced. In the case of real estate tax, yes, the obligation would be equally allocated to cleaning the pavement and other welfare arrangements. But on the other hand, we are still paying taxes to the state, and the state, in turn, is paying subsidies to the municipalities from these taxes. It is not fair to do this to homeowners with hidden taxes yet to be burdened. In my opinion, the Estonian state has contributed a great deal to the birth of many children. Today, Child Services Day, it's a good time to talk about it. But the prerequisite for creating and raising a good family is primarily your home. And right now we're trying to bully homeowners! There are very many good local governments in Estonia that have not imposed such an obligation on their people. And if you look at which municipalities have not put this burden, it is interesting that the smaller the municipality is, the less he has burdened the citizens of his municipality. And the bigger and richer the municipality, the more homeowners have tried to burden or at least look for ways to increase the burden. Having been a member of the council for 30 years as well as several times as chairman of the council, I can assure you that there has been no such burden in our area. And we have been among the first two to receive the title of the municipality supporting the homeowner because we were the first in the country to exempt homeowners from land tax. The country came back a few years later. But in general, we burden homeowners with the obligation to keep the town or the rural municipality green and also the sidewalks. Then the next step could be that everyone who uses the Tallinn highway every week should push the snow out of there by seven o'clock. That's not what anyone's thinking of making homeowners have to do. However, the municipality does not feel that the pavement should be in order and should be done by the municipality itself. This will burden homeowners. Finally, I stress that it is actually very clear that we are not blaming local governments. The same hall has ever made such a decision, both by establishing the building law and the KOKS. And I believe that the same hall must always be admitted when he has at some point made the wrong decision. Just as we fixed the pension law a year ago, we solved the issue of the second pension pillar. Mistakes must be acknowledged, mistakes must be learned and corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U133	Tarmo Kruusimäe, question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U134	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Those taxes. I live in the city of Tallinn in a settlement like Tiskre, which belongs to the territory of the city of Tallinn, but, well, as the men said in the women's sauna, the funds moved, but the streets were still not handed over to the city of Tallinn. This means that we pay taxes and, in addition, pay money to the cooperative, that we keep these streets clean, and also pay for street lighting. By this logic, would we be able to obtain tax relief for the inhabitants of this dwelling? Because doing it like this would actually feel pretty good: we're in the city of Tallinn, we're paying taxes and the streets in Lasnamägi or Õismägi are being cleaned up for this tax money, Kopli and downtown are being lit, but I have to pay for this public good. Would that be possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U135	Thank you, Tarmo, for a good question. There is one important component in this draft law that we have discussed at length today. Every owner must maintain his own territory and the owner of another property cannot require us to keep your property in order. You have a question about Tiskre who owns this driveway. If this road belongs to the city of Tallinn and the pavement and street lighting and the green area, then it must certainly be maintained by the municipality. If it belongs to you, you are responsible as owners. The minute you bought the property, you should have seen whose is the sidewalk and the driveway. And there's nothing to do, the point of the bill is that the owner is responsible for his property. We also have a minor mistake in this draft, which we will certainly try to correct as a proposal for improvement. When we looked at the green side, we realized very clearly that the owner kept his property in order and that the neighboring block would not have to be kept. We acknowledge here on the floor that we did not read the KOKS properly when making the draft, we did a mistake, and I also answered Annely's question in the Committee on Economic Affairs, that this is our mistake, the error of the drafters, and that we will certainly make this proposal within the deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U136	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, When the Sotsi presented their draft, one of their leading members asked why the Sotsia draft was different from ours, or rather, why it was better than the Pro Patria draft. On the contrary, I ask: why is the draft of the Fatherland better than the draft of the pact?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U138	Thank you for a good question. As the Commission's waitress Anneli said, the Fatherland is much more meaningful. I thank Anne for that sentence! That's more meaningful. The Social Bill only talks about the sidewalk, but we are also talking about ensuring that the public territory is in good order. Public territory between the home owner's property and the roadway, it is a green area or something else, maintenance should still be clearly entrusted to the municipality. According to KOKS, the municipality is right, not obliged to place this task on the home owner. We want to abolish this right and the landowner must ensure the maintenance of his land.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U139	Thank you. No further questions. Annely Akkermann can now be the rapporteur for the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U140	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's talk about what's in it. I have already pointed out that the draft of the Fatherland is more meaningful than the draft of the Sots. The draft was submitted by the Fatherland on 7 April, 8 April by the Board of the Riigikogu to the procedure and direction of the Economic Commission. The number of the draft was 369 and on 3 May the Committee on Economic Affairs appointed a speaker here. The draft submitted by the Fatherland contains three sections, the Socialist one was only one line. The first paragraph is the same as the Social Democrats. I didn't understand Aivar Koka's explanations about this bill. If he thinks that the maintenance of the pavement and the plot is the responsibility of the municipality as owner, why does he defend the draft with which to repeal the paragraph? To make sure it's not confusing, I'm gonna read it one more time. Paragraph 97 (6) of the Construction Code states: "In the city, the village and the village, the owner of the land adjacent to the road is obliged to arrange for the cleaning of the pavement between the road and its immovable property, including the control of snow and slippage, at a level which allows safe passage on the pavement. " This is not the responsibility of the local government at the moment, and no money is currently available for this purpose for the local government. It's the owner's responsibility. And I think that since you're here defending a bill that wishes to cancel its owner's obligation, you actually understand that. Otherwise, you're saying basically yes, but not generally. The Building Act also says that, in principle, this is the responsibility of the owner. The second short paragraph is that § 36 (3) of the Local Government Organisation Act is repealed. I also have these two and a half lines in advance, which means that "The assembly may be imposed on natural and legal persons to ensure good order of the property or other territory in their possession and of the public territory directly adjacent to it. " What was the mistake now? Aivar Kokk admitted in the Commission and reiterated here that the annulment of this provision is an error, since under this provision the local authority also requires the owners of the properties they own or hold to be in order, such as the liquidation of the risk of collapse or the demolition of the building or the maintenance of the building or the failure of the sailors to fall on people's heads. I still understand that the performer himself has realized that this is not a good idea. And the third, which actually makes this bill meaningful, is § 3 on the entry into force of the law. "This Act shall enter into force on 1 October 2021. " I think that this is the most meaningful part of this draft, so that it would be something to play with voters in local elections. The rapporteur presented the draft in detail, and I do not think that any of the aspects raised by the Commission were unlightened and therefore I am not going to repeat it. In the Commission, I myself raised the fact that this draft, too, is not intended for funding: how much the change would cost and for which these costs would be covered. In the explanatory memorandum, the Fatherland has said that since it is the responsibility of the local government, it should find money from its current budget for this purpose. Requesting a regime for a property owned or managed, that is what I have already talked about, and that is what we talked about more about in the Commission. What else were we talking about? Since most of the people in this room have a place to live, everyone explained how they should carry this load. For the most part, the towns were talking about a plow coming into town every hour and pushing a new snow whale on the cleaned pavement. But I said that Kihnus is like this, and I think there are so many rural areas that people expect a plow to come. And it'd be nice if he pushed another two meters out of front of the gate, then he'd flip his car towards the store. I myself have been in Kihnu one year at Christmas and waited three days in a plow in a snowcock, because the snow had come to 20 feet by the sea, and I really couldn't get out. I don't think rural people understand the noise of the city that the plow is going too far. Most rural municipalities, however, have roads on the ground, and they do not understand the murmuring that they have to clear 20, 30 or 40 metres of road. The Government has also delivered a negative opinion on this draft. There is also a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which, like the previous draft, recommends giving the local government the right to exempt certain social groups from this burden. I looked up the references to the obligation of the state to give additional money to local governments along with additional tasks, as well as to this decision of the Supreme Court were in this letter from the Ministry of Finance. On 18 May, the Commission decided: firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda for today and secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed. Decisions were taken by consensus. The speakers were Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Kalvi Tulika, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin. This is all my comment on what has been discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U141	There are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I understand that you personally and perhaps some of the members of the Commission had doubts that, as Aivar Kokk pointed out, he would come to you there to clean up the snow on Kihnu Island. I believe that is not the reason why you have to reject this bill. However, I think this is a very serious issue because it concerns property and the obligations and rights of the owner. This paragraph, which you do not now want to repeal, essentially means that someone still has to keep the property of another. And this paragraph, I think, still needs to be annulled. Because the local government can only impose taxes and obligations on the basis of the law and, if not, they cannot be imposed either. Give me a pretty serious reason why you don't want to adopt this law!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U143	It's not my intention. If the Riigikogu wishes to adopt this law, it will adopt it. However, as long as this bill is a draft and has not become a law, the construction code still imposes an obligation on the landowner to keep the area between his land parcel and the adjacent parcel, i.e. the pavement between the road and his immovable property and other land in order. This is the decision of the legislator. If this is to be changed, it must be voted and the bill must become a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U144	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U145	Yeah, I understand you're referring to the construction law here, but I think this bill wants to cancel this section too. But what if the legislator decides at some point that rural people have to wash urban cars because the city's overall picture is better and the legislator has taken such a decision? I still come to constitutional rights. Everyone's duty is to possess, command, use their property. This regulation, which we have had so far, still goes a little bit, I think, in the area of slavery, as Mr Chef said. Or what do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U146	This is a very emotional and cognitive question. I, myself, am not a slave to the local government by robbing the land behind my garden. If someone feels that way, there's nothing they can do about it. But if you take it seriously, the question of whether the burden of maintaining the pavement and the themes bordering the property is too much has been asked to the Chancellor of Justice. And the Chancellor of Justice has written that he doesn't think it's too much of a burden. Similarly, the Supreme Court has taken a slightly different view. There are decisions of the Supreme Court that the cost of maintaining the area between the road and the property border is not too high for the owner of the property. This subject has already passed through the Supreme Court and it has been decided.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U147	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U148	Thank you. At the same time, Annely, in the context of Pärnu, the Chancellor of Justice has also said that it is not proportionate, however, that the local government tells the price of the service to the owner of the house, who himself does not have the opportunity to fulfil this obligation because he has a disability of movement or whatever the reason. But here's my question. Really, maybe the lawn shouldn't be mowed either. Many species like to live in the long grass. At the same time, people are used to the grass being mowed and beautiful for the eyes. But when we're talking about sidewalks, it's actually a very practical question. Very many people work abroad or leave home very early and simply do not fill this load when the snow has snowed. Cleaning up your piece of street just gets really complicated and it's not going to work, and the result is that people get hurt. Would it really be fair to go this way, that the municipality would clear these roads by morning?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U149	I think it would be too much of an obligation for the local government. In many families where people work full - time, a janitor is ordered home. Why, then, would a person who works hard and leaves early in the morning or goes abroad should not order this work from the management company himself in order to fulfil his obligation to the local community and to his neighbours, who, according to the construction law, have the right to assume that they will be able to go home unharmed along the sidewalk? Ownership also means commitment, consideration for neighbours and the whole community. I wouldn't want to pay an extra tax on the local government's budget for someone to come and rake my garden. And I would also prefer that the city of Pärnu, for example, does not spend five or ten million collected tax money to go and clean my garden.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-01_U150	Thank you, Annely! No further questions. We can go to the negotiations now. But if we don't negotiate, we can finish reading. There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 369. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 15 June at 5.15 p.m. Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is adjourned.
