ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U1	Minister, thank you. It seems like a very thorough report, but there seems to be a few questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U2	Good manager! Dear Minister, According to the draft law, the law is complemented by a regulation allowing the State itself to carry out the preparatory activities for building permits for the construction of the sea for the development of sea wind parks and aquaculture and to submit these building permits to a public competition. The drafters have explained that the interest of the State is not to restrict requirements for economic operators or their possibilities, but that the State must have the possibility to decide on the economic activities of specific areas. According to the draft, the national representative body will submit applications for a building permit for [the] sea wind parks to be built in the sea areas. According to the explanatory memorandum, this body could also be the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. There is therefore a conflict of interest in the draft: the body responsible for managing the energy markets should not be responsible for developing sea wind parks. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U3	Thank you. On the contrary, I think that there are situations where it is necessary for the state to take the preparatory action itself in order to speed up the processes. There may be several reasons for this. Sometimes it can be that the state is better able to organise these processes in the preparatory work. And sometimes there may be a situation where the developer has not taken action at enough speed to prepare the planned area for a wind farm building permit. Then it makes sense for the country to intervene and carry it out. The aim of all this activity is still to enable us to build sea wind parks as quickly as possible. And, of course, not only wind farms, but also the part concerning aquaculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U4	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U5	Thank you. I have to admit, I don't understand that very well. The legal order in force in Estonia has been based on a developer-based model throughout. Currently, eight local and international companies are active in the development of wind energy in Estonia or have shown interest in it, and the volume of planned projects exceeds 13,000 megawatts. This shows that there is no market failure in the sector which would need to be addressed by the State's market share. The draft proposes a new regulation allowing the State to carry out its own preparatory activities for building permits for the construction of the sea and to submit these areas to a public competition. In my opinion, this assumption is not justified in the light of current international market practice and creates a situation where today's investors may abandon the development of wind farms. Why has the state changed its decisions at one point and started to resolve these things differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U6	Thank you. I rather think that this earlier system, in which the developers simply had the opportunity to book some land for an unknown period of time, so that perhaps in the future something could be developed, I think rather this system was problematic for the country. First of all, the goal of having more sea wind parks will not be met. Secondly, this objective is not met, so that the State receives revenues from these developments in the form of future building permits charges, after all, has not started to develop. I think that if the state had already started preparing for the development of sea wind parks up to the building permits, then put these building permits into a public competition, then we would have achieved much further with the development of sea wind parks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U7	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U8	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Undoubtedly, renewable energy and sea wind parks are very important; there is no doubt about that. I read in this explanatory memorandum that these changes will be made in particular so that the state can start building water itself in the building[permission] process and place building permits on a more or selective offer. I'm asking you about the offer, the auction is clear. Please open up this selection offer a little bit. In what form are these activities initiated by the State later put into selection? Perhaps there could be some examples of what it really looks like in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U9	Thank you. Selection... Auction is simple: whoever offers a higher price will have that right. However, certain areas may also involve ancillary activities, which are also necessary and which must be taken into account in this offer. For example, it is up to the state to see the possibility of developing a wind farm and aquaculture together, that two things will come together. This, too, is one option that in the future can be put to offer in a region.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U10	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U11	Thank you. Minister, please describe the country's role in the development of aquaculture. Does the state have a point in doing a public enterprise in aquaculture or what is specifically meant here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U12	Thank you. No, the country certainly does not have that point and this draft does not have that substance either. The draft states that preparatory activities will be carried out until the building permit is offered. The country prepares and then goes to this area, it is a wind farm area, it is an aquaculture area, or it is a mixed area, a wind farm with an aquaculture area, still an offer. And from there, companies are already operating to develop this region.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U13	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U14	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Honestly, I didn't really understand your example of a selection offer. If there's a chance, maybe you'll try to explain it to me again. Indeed, with aquaculture, you can produce electricity, that's all right. Rather, I will try to ask from a different angle: could this choice also have something to do with considering some security arguments in addition and setting some selection criteria in this respect, or is it quite the opposite that it is simply being given to choose these areas? Perhaps you'll try again to explain this selection to me a little bit again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U15	Thank you. As I said, with some offers, perhaps the additional conditions needed to be met, in addition to the [objective] being the highest possible return. What are these additional conditions? They can be very [various]. They will become clear during the preparation of the building permit if such additional conditions are to occur in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U16	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U17	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Government initiated the draft amendment of this Building Code and other related acts on 20 September. The Riigikogu adopted this procedure on 21 September. Draft No 430 amending the Building Code and other laws aims to bring together and make more comprehensible the legal rules governing the construction of the sea in order to facilitate the construction of sea wind parks and aquaculture facilities. For the first time, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft on 28 September and, at this meeting, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Siim Kallas, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester, Mikhail Stalnukhin and the speaker agreed to appoint a rapporteur here. For the second time, the Committee on Economic Affairs dealt with the draft on 12 October and then in more detail. The draft was presented by Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Aas. Since he did it again here today, I'm not gonna say it again. The speaker drew attention to the fee for the building permit, which is set, taking into account the total costs incurred by the State, in addition to the tax price of the land. This price also takes into account compensation for local communities. An amount of EUR 110000 has been made available from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is distributed among the communities in whose field of view the wind farms are placed. I have examined what the author of the law has actually meant and whether this law does not create certain expectations for the founders of wind farms. Taavi Aas replied that the local benefit [to be determined] was not the purpose of this law and that this amount was likely to have come from the earlier proposals of a wind farm. The Gulf of Riga wind farm extends to four municipalities. In the summary of the initiative of the [Manufacturer] Local Benefits Act [has been stated], as well as the view of the local rural municipalities, the EUR 110000 distributed between these four municipalities is not sufficient. If it is estimated that the megawatt price will be EUR 100 in the next few years and the total annual production of the wind farm will be EUR 400 million per year, then the amount will be slightly small. Mr Aas agreed that a reasonable compromise had to be found with the local authorities. The aim is to alleviate confrontation and resolve the concerns of local authorities. In the meantime, two letters have been received by the Committee on Economic Affairs since the debate in the Commission and before today's meeting. One is from the House for Renewable Energy, which considers that the revocation or refusal to grant a building permit due to a threat to security or to a defence object is too intensely affecting the fundamental rights of the developer. On 25 October, a letter arrived from Eesti Energia, explaining, like the Estonian House of Renewable Energy, that the addition of a new foundation is therefore a threat to security and national defence against the refusal of building permits, revocation of building permits and refusal of authorisation is unnecessary. The letter from Eesti Energia was quite unexpected. It also draws attention to more philosophical dilemmas. For example, in Estonia, eight companies are active in the development of marine wind energy and the volume of planned projects exceeds 13000 megawatts, which shows that there is no market failure in the sector that needs to be resolved by participating in the market by the state. In other words, the proposed regulation, which allows the state itself to carry out preparatory activities for building permits for construction at sea and may not need to be submitted to a public competition in the areas. In addition, it considers that a conflict of interest has been included in the draft, as the body responsible for managing the energy markets should not be responsible for the development of sea wind parks. It also points out that the bill violates the principle of equal treatment with respect to other developers compared to the development of the state. This letter from Eesti Energia is quite substantial and these are undoubtedly very compelling, fundamental questions that the Commission must discuss before second reading. And at the 406 draft procedure, it also sounded once in this hall today, such an error occurred due to the parallel procedure of the two drafts. In contrast, one aspect was regulated, namely the consideration of the building permit fee. This needs to be discussed in depth between the two readings with the parties. However, as a result of the Commission's debate on 12 October, it was decided firstly to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 27 October, which was now yesterday, and secondly to propose that the first reading be closed. Both decisions were taken consensually by the speaker, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Mikhail Korbi, Kristen Michali, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U18	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There's usually no flawless thing like that. And I think this also concerns this draft, which you have just tabled. You have, here, say, very nicely praised it, but I ask what are, in your opinion, the weaknesses of this draft, in the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U20	The Commission did not discuss weaknesses. I think [information about them] comes to us slowly by letter. The first two letters have arrived with several references to what these weaknesses are in the draft, which the Commission should discuss and decide or specify.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U21	Good waitress, thank you for answering your questions. There's another question for you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Are you saying that this bill is absolutely flawless?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U23	No, I certainly didn't say that. I even pointed out the problems that have already been reported to us by market participants from other affected parties. There's still time to think about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U24	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for a representative of the Group of the Isamaa Party of the Riigikogu speech chair. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U25	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We know that, in the case of marine wind energy, both in terms of achieving climate objectives and ensuring energy security, this is a very investment-intensive area where it is essential to ensure legal certainty and equal treatment of market participants. When I read this bill, it seems to me that it is far from equal treatment. Today, many companies have started developing sea wind parks, involving investors. These amounts are not in millions and tens or hundreds of millions, but in billions. And if I see that somehow this bill is trying to get one of the state companies to prefer to all the other developers, I think there's some kind of hook in here somewhere. That could be the catch. We were here discussing the previous drafts, and all the time we heard that the money was low, that we needed to get more people. It seems that the situation in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is that one person or a little more people are involved in this area, but as they say, it is. At the same time, even state-owned enterprises will not be discussed. The Economic Commission has come quite comprehensive letter from Eesti Energia, which is not on one A4 but on five pages. And it would be good if one of the members of the Riigikogu bothered to take it and actually get into it. I've had a lot of questions. For years there has been a situation in Estonia that during the last decade the Estonian state has not allowed any wind farms to be developed in Estonia. Today, two state companies are fighting among themselves in court on the development of Tootsi wind farm. Both are 100% state companies, both councils are appointed by members of our government. On that I ask what is really going on in Estonia. And I'm reading in the press how they're gonna be mad at me for asking a public official, maybe a little more evil about what's going on. If there were radars purchased at the beginning of the last decade, which cost €6 to 8 million, six wind farm developments would be completed today. Today, the state decides that these equipment must be purchased, and it costs ten times more, or 80 million, and yet it has been without wind power for years. No one will discuss this cost. At the moment, it is also the case that Eesti Energia has started to develop a sea wind park, while several private investors are doing the same. They have negotiated with investors and these sums, I stress, are not hundreds of millions, they are billions. However, today's coalition has brought a bill to the table that completely turns on wind energy, the principles of developing wind farms. Maybe it's very useful for a state company. I understand that the leaders of this state company are very good lobbyists and hats off, can't say a bad word about it. Whoever does their job better gets better decisions for their company. And if it doesn't raise our spending as taxpayers, it reduces... I'll have three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U26	Yeah! Please, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U27	... it would be very nice. But we see what is happening today on the world market at both electricity and gas prices. In both cases, these competing companies are leaders on the market and are in a monopoly, relatively monopolistic position, to which they now want to jerk off all wind farms, sea wind parks. And then there's something else coming in here like aquaculture. I don't know, I'm ashamed to admit that there may be places where wind farms and aquaculture are put together, but I don't know. I don't know where fish swim with pleasure under windmills, and aquaculture can be done, but there could definitely be algae growing somewhere. I don't know about that, and I apologize for my ignorance. But I say that I have reservations about not doubting that something is wrong here in Estonia. And without mentioning the names, I have the feeling that the important thing is that one person has to work very well in the ministry and he gives advice, and his wife has to work in a company that needs advice, and then things go really fast, smooth, and the drafts come according to the company's wishes. And if you don't have that chance, things aren't going so well with this other public or private company. I cannot propose, on behalf of the group, to withdraw this draft, but I am asking the Committee on Economic Affairs. I know Annely very well. He is very thorough and I would ask the members of the committee to read the letter of Eesti Energia very thoroughly, to invite the people of Eesti Energia to the committee and to discuss matters. It is not quite as some members of the Riigikogu or the leaders of the committee say that if the bill comes from the government, it is top-notch. I can tell you that decisions are made by 101 members of the Riigikogu. And that decision has yet to be made. I may have misunderstood the matter, and I cannot say that it has been read quickly and then discussed [in depth], but when I read this seven pages, I have a distinct feeling that something is wrong and that there is a desire to slow down the development of wind farms. That it has stood for ten years and let the next ten years stand and those investors who are willing to put a billion into Estonia go either to Lithuania or to Poland. As you know, Eesti Energia is doing development work in most other Baltic countries, not in Estonia, because the Estonian state is doing everything at the level of ministries and with its officials in order not to develop here. It's sad for me to look at it, as well as my monthly electricity bill. If today these wind farms were working and the solar panels that were completed last year were connected to the other side, then our prices would not be like this, especially if one cable were connected to Finland through the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U28	Thank you. Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We are at 430, the lead committee has proposed that the first reading be stopped. I will now ask the rapporteur of the commission for an eye contact, and I will not say anything wrong, and I will set the deadline for submitting the amendments, including 11 November at 5.15 p.m. It seems that there are no protests against the deadline for these amendments. Thus, the first reading has been completed and the 18th item has also been closed as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U29	Okay, now we're on item 19. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U30	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce the draft law supplementing the Maritime Safety Act. The amendment relates directly to the readings of next year's state budget here in the Riigikogu. The bill complements the Maritime Safety Act with the provision that ship-owners will have to pay the waterway charge by 25% less than the threshold laid down in the same law in 2022. The draft concerns ship-owners and the Transport Board, who keep records of and collects waterway charges. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, ship owners found themselves in a difficult situation as passenger and freight transport was significantly reduced as a result of border closures. Most countries took different measures to alleviate the situation. From 1 April 2020 until 31 March 2021, ship owners in Estonia were exempted from the payment of the waterway charge. From 1 April of this year until the end of the year, a reduced rate of 50% shall apply. As a result of the exemption and subsequent reductions, the freight volumes of Estonian ports increased, while the freight volumes of ports in neighbouring countries decreased. This positive trend has continued this year. The continued reduction in the amount of the bill will have a positive impact on shipowners, ports, transport and forwarding companies and increase the competitiveness of freight corridors passing through Estonia and Estonian exports. A 25% reduction in the cost of waterway charges in 2022 will bring an estimated cost to the state budget of around 4.5 million, but the positive impact may amount to approximately 16 million euros if freight volumes are added. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U31	Thank you, Minister. Looks like there are some questions from this report. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U32	Good manager! Dear Minister, I know your heart hurts to protect this bill. You've been, when we've talked, very clear that this number could be much higher than 25%. I simply have a question as to why today's government would like to double the water fare compared to today's rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U33	Thank you. Well, that's where to look: either the glass is half full or the glass is half empty. On the other hand, next year the fee for water will not rise to this rate, as previously provided for by the law and as agreed. Certainly 25% is less than 50%, but 25% is definitely more than 0%. This is today's capacity; this is the financial cover from the state budget for reducing this rate of charge, and as such this proposal has been brought here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U34	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is certainly a reasonable course in this sense that, at least, what is said is a better half of an egg than an empty shell. But a little bit of an egg, too. It has been estimated that it will cost up to EUR 5 million and will then be covered by EUR 200 million thanks to the net receipts to the state budget, namely the net receipts from the maritime sector. Maybe in a few words, you'll open up this net gain a little bit. Can we be sure that net receipts will still come to this extent? On what is it based, this [forecast] a few hundred million?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U36	Thank you. We can talk about what impact this reduction has had so far. This 200 million is a total recovery. We can talk about what was added when the decision was taken to reduce the rate of the waterway charge. And if I am not mistaken, it was PricewaterhouseCoopers who made this assessment, and the result of their work was that as the turnover of goods increased in Estonian ports, the impact of this increase in the turnover of goods on the state budget, which they reached, has been around 16 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U37	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U38	Thank you. Very correct, PricewaterhouseCoopers did indeed make such [conclusion] that the positive effect [is] 16 million. However, it also carried out a second analysis: if this reduction had not been made between 1 April 2020 and 31 March 2021, if the waterway charge had not been zeroed and after that [would not have continued] by 50% until the end of this year, the State would have missed EUR 35 million. We have an activity-based state budget, but still the situation is that it is not possible to make it clear to the officials of the Ministry of Finance that, when profits are made, it is not cost-based, but it is a revenue-based decision. Maybe you can help us. What should we do in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the Riigikogu to make it clear that if, by one decision, we bring in more money to the state budget than this [support measure] is reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U39	Thank you. A good questioner is certainly much more experienced than I am in this regard, with very long experience in the Riigikogu, including experience in the management of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Certainly your experience in communicating with the officials of the Ministry of Finance has given you the opportunity to understand which revenues the Ministry of Finance agrees to take into account when preparing the state budget and which revenues the Ministry of Finance does not agree to take into account when preparing the state budget. But I certainly look forward to an interesting debate also during this state budget procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U40	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U41	Thanks! Good minister! In fact, Aivar Kokk has already opened this subject here, and it is a little unclear to me too. We're missing about five million now. That means we're talking about two or three million. And how could we have the confidence that this net recovery into the state budget would not be 200 million if we did not double today, but 250 million, for example? You slipped so easily over this 200 million opening. I understand that PricewaterhouseCoopers has also said that raising this fee would actually not reduce revenue, but rather increase revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U42	I think that's where you're wrong. The conclusion of PricewaterhouseCoopers' work was that the reduction in the charges for waterways has brought additional revenues to the state budget as the volume of freight transport has increased. That's the way it was. Yeah, that's all I know how to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U43	Minister, thank you very much. No further questions. Please ask Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Decisions by the Commission then.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U44	Good morning again. It'll be early in the morning. This draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea 455 was initiated by the Government on 29 September and the Riigikogu's Board of Directors was adopted on 30 September this year. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, Minister Taavi Aas presented the draft on 12 October. The main content of the bill in 2022 is the determination of the waterway charge 25% lower than that laid down in the same law in order to motivate consignors to channel trade flows through Estonian ports. Waterway charges will be reduced on all ships entering Estonian ports and port raids. Kaido Rosin said that, according to the distinction valid until the end of this year, there are also incentives for port visits. Rosin has examined whether it is not currently intended for this purpose and how it relates specifically to the benefit of the following year. Hana-Maarja Helinurm, Legal Adviser to the Maritime Economy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, replied that the number of visits had been reduced due to the fact that, until the end of March of this year, the vessels had been fully exempted from the payment of waterway charges. As the 25% reduction is foreseen for the whole calendar year, the current logic of the payment of the waterway charges continues according to the law, that is to say, the number of visits remains the same. The letter sent by the Union of shipowners to several parties, including the Economic Commission, on 14 October also indirectly concerns this draft with a request to continue the passenger shipping support measure for at least 2022 and 2023. This concerned the quarterly support paid to a passenger company engaged in international voyages, the so-called tax refund. This letter will be discussed before the second reading. But the Commission made decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 27 October, which became smoothly today, 28 October; secondly, to propose that the first reading be stopped and third reading. propose five working days for the amendments, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 4 November 2021. All the decisions were taken in consensus and were taken by Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Mikhail Korb, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester, Mikhail Stalnukhin and the speaker here. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U45	Thank you very much, waitress. There are no questions. Thank you. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the party of the Isamaa Party, Aivar Koka. Eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U46	Still eight. Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! First of all, I want to congratulate the Minister. If I made a bit of a pickle with him on the previous draft, in the case of this bill, I must sincerely say that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, as much as we have had the honour of cooperating, has always tried the best on shipping. But as he said in answering my question, nor in the discussions of the Ministry of Finance on how the cost-benefit side is calculated, it is very well and precisely understood. As an economic measure related to the spread of the Corona virus, in the previous coalition, we jointly adopted the Act amending the laws relating to the Estonian State's additional budget for 2020 law, which exempted all ships entering Estonian ports and the raid of the port from payment of the waterway charge from 1 April of the year until the end of this year, and the state budget for that year is 50% of the waterway charges. This decision has had a positive impact on Estonia's competitiveness. Compared to 2019 and 2020, Estonia gained additional freight volumes, thus additional revenue for the state. While the volume of freight in our Baltic Sea region decreased by 7.9% at that time, the volume of goods transported by the Port of Tallinn increased by 7%, i.e. 1.4 million tonnes. If this decision had not been taken, this figure would not have increased by 7% but would have decreased by 8%, i.e. it would have been even lower. PricewaterhouseCoopers has for many years analysed the economic impact of the Estonian freight corridor and, based on these studies, it is estimated that this increase in freight volume will have a positive impact on the state budget, approximately 16 million euros. This will cover most of the cost of the exemption measure. It is important to take into account that if such a decision had not been taken, Estonia would have lost heavily in the volume of freight transport and also in the revenue of the state as compared to what was planned. Business forecasts show that, without this measure, a large part of the revenue from the planned waterway charges would have been lost and that freight volumes would have been significantly reduced. As a result, the revenue from the state budget would have been more than EUR 35 million lower. But now they want to increase the fee twice compared to this year next year. Is there now a desire to discourage entrepreneurship and to give up the revenue of the state? It is our party's view that, in the light of the above, budget planning should be continued at a rate of 50% from 1 January next year. I remember that, along with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, improvements were made to the state budget this year as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, with which we kept the waterway charges low, which brought cash flows and cargo ships to our ports. The representative of the Commission also spoke about Estonian passenger shipping. Estonian passenger shipping is a well-known trademark of Estonia and a strong guarantor of the free movement of international travellers and goods. The passenger shipping support measure introduced by Regulation No 57 of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of 24 September last year, "Conditions and arrangements for supporting international passenger shipping', helped to maintain passenger shipping between neighbouring countries even if the number of passengers was minimal and the organisation of journeys to shipowners was loss-making. This measure was able to maintain a large number of jobs and avoid a catastrophic situation for Estonian maritime workers. Given the current increase in the spread of the COVID-19 virus in Estonia and neighbouring countries, a serious question arises: what has changed that the Government of the Republic has decided not to continue this aid measure? According to experts, it is only possible to restore passenger flow to pre-pandemic levels in 20252026. By 31 December, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the implementation of this Decision. This development is devastating for the Estonian maritime industry, as a large part of Estonia's professional crew would become unemployed. If we want Estonian passenger shipping to be sustainable in the future, we should also support passenger shipping next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U47	Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. It is now the case that the lead committee has proposed to conclude the first reading of draft 455. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 19th item is also closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and the safe way home! Take care!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U48	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Members of the Government of the Republic of Great Honour! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start our briefing on October 27th. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U49	22 members of the Riigikogu are presently present and 79 are currently absent. The following members of the Government of the Republic will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas. Dear colleagues, since the 13 questions have been addressed to us, I would like to ask you that we agree that there is one supplementary or more specific question and one supplementary question for each question. Let's get started. Questions two minutes, as we know, and answers three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U50	The first question is asked by Eduard Odines, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, a member of the Government of the Republic, and the issue is the investigation of corruption. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Probably one of the most recent cases of corruption that shocked our country about a year ago, and which was also one of the reasons why the government at the time no longer exists, was the so-called Porto Franco scandal and its suspicions, the accusations made in the media and everything that goes around it. When your government took office, you mentioned and stressed that combating corruption is one of your most important goals. I understand that we have a health crisis, an economic crisis, probably other crises too, and perhaps corruption is not the issue that is of paramount importance to you, but I do think that it is extremely important for the functioning of the Estonian state that the coalition also honours those promises concerning the effective fight against corruption and zero tolerance in this matter. In January 2021, the Government of the Republic set up an Inquiry Committee for the same Porto Franco scandal and instructed the Secretary of State to examine all possible circumstances relating to the granting of a loan to the Porto Franco private limited company and appointed the same committee as the Secretary of State, in addition to the Secretary of State, the Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ando Leppiman and Chancellor of Justice, Tõnis Saare. Prime Minister, could you enlighten us how far this committee of inquiry has come, what is the result of this committee's work and what we have learned from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U52	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U53	Thank you for that question. I absolutely agree with you that it is very important for the functioning of the country that we fight corruption and do not tolerate corruption in any way, because it is a question of the credibility of the country that everything is happening in an honest and transparent way. Indeed, the Government set up a commission to examine the facts of the Porto Franco case. I've been looking into the state of play with this Commission, how far they've come. They should come up with their report in November. First it is introduced to the Government of the Republic and after that it can also be introduced to the respective committees in the Riigikogu. So this is the current state of play with these results. I have not read this report because this report is not yet ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U54	Now, one more question. However, before the additional question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U55	Thank you, Prime Minister, for that answer. The Commission was set up in January and it will soon be ten months before it tries to understand what happened with this loan. In May, the Riigikogu visited the Special Committee on Corruption, the Secretary of State, the chairman of this committee, and said that he could not say anything about it, as a report will be prepared immediately, which will be submitted to the government first and then come to the Riigikogu to speak to the respective committees. It was just before Midsummer Day. Midsummer day's long gone, no report. I approached the Secretary of State several times during the summer as chairman of the committee and received the reply immediately. Now I hear from you, too, right now. In November, 11 months will pass since the start of this committee's work. What, after all, is the reason for such a long delay in dealing with this one issue in a committee of inquiry set up by the Government of the Republic? Could it be that one of the members of the committee is Ando Leppiman, Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who is also the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the KredEx Foundation, who granted the loan to the private limited company Porto Franco, and has been involved in this whole process? As far as I know, the Secretary of State, when this committee was formed, pointed out that a member of the Commission might have a conflict of interest here. Nevertheless, the government decided that Mr Leppiman would fit in very well with this committee. Do you have any idea why these things take so long? Doesn't the Ministry of the Economy share documents? Is the Secretary of State not strong enough? Have you not reminded me once this year that this is an important issue? What's the big deal? Why are these things dragging on like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U56	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U57	Thank you. Estonia is a small country, and we have the same people doing a lot of different jobs. You're talking about Midsummer Day. On Midsummer, we were aware of a cold warehouse incident in the Health Board, where a number of drugs were destroyed. The same Secretary of State carried it to the Commission to find out all the factors that led to the destruction of medicines and vaccines and to the fact that we actually had to write down a number of medicines and vaccines. This was an extensive report and it was very urgent. The question was how to proceed with this. This concerned insurance, different liability, which was consequently the case. It's like this job got busted. Since this was also done by the Secretary of State, it was under his leadership, it will inevitably not be able to do everything in parallel. We have also had this acute health crisis for a very long time. It has also taken quite a lot of resources away from the State Chancellery. I have to admit that I have not taken a deep interest in this study of Porto Franco myself, because there are so many other issues that need to be dealt with very actively. But I really asked what condition it was, and the promise was that it [report] would come in November. I will now keep an eye on this promise so that it will definitely come in November, and it will also be introduced to the Riigikogu so that it does not go any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U58	Now, one more question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U59	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Our fourth power, the press, for some reason, is also dealing with influence. He could be equally and uniformly demanding about corruption, but it is often the case that some cases are recorded and some are not reflected, which is what in the vox populi's raised the question of whether we have white corruption and black corruption. If the aim of white corruption is to overthrow the government in power, then it is a 'good' goal. We in this hall are all condemning corruption. But how should the press be demanding, and what can you say as Prime Minister, so that it reflects all cases of corruption equally rather than neglecting some?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U60	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U61	Thank you. The Estonian press is doing a very good job and very thorough work. Since we have freedom of expression, no member of the government or member of the Riigikogu can prescribe to the press what the press thinks it is necessary to investigate or not. After all, there are quite a number of cases that have come out of the press investigation, and that is something that the journalists must be grateful for. I don't know what specific cases you're talking about. I believe that if there are any concerns, there are a number of journalists willing to investigate these cases. If it really is corruption, then it is up to the law enforcement authorities to look into it more closely. So all these doubts, I think, should not only be thrown into the air, but they should also be examined. It is needed both for people who are in doubt and for people who suspect that things are clear. But I believe in the Estonian press. Of course, as politicians, we are always between the confessions of the press, but I guess they're doing their job and we're doing our job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U62	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U63	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme, which is answered by Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo, and the subject of this question is COVID. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U64	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Order No 305 of the Government of the Republic of 23 August, including the regulation laying down the measures and restrictions necessary to prevent the spread of COVID-19, is based on the provisions of § 28 (5) of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, which says that if we have a dangerous and novel infectious disease spreading, all of this can happen now. As the minister of your current government, you said on the information day of the service providers day, 24 August, and said it twice, so it was not a mistake, exactly: "COVID, mutated COVID, is today a disease that we can no longer say 'dangerous, novel'. And if we cannot say 'new, dangerous', then it also means that we have both treatment and vaccine, and that is also very many other infectious diseases. " My question is: Have COVID-19 and the mutated COVID been removed from the list of dangerous novel diseases by the Health Board today, because what else gave you the opportunity to publicly say it to everyone on the day of information that it is no longer a dangerous or novel disease?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U65	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U66	Thank you, Mrs Helle-Moonika Helme! My speech to the heads of general and special welfare institutions on 24 August expressed this view that COVID-19 is today a disease with which we must live and adapt. The possibility of adapting to it is both the existence of treatment and the presence of vaccines. If we look at the definition you referred to in the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, there are two main criteria. These criteria are precisely the existence of treatment, and then the possibility of prevention, i.e. vaccination. This means that it is very difficult to formally classify COVID as a new dangerous infectious disease, which does not mean that it is not a health crisis and we should not have to resolve all the situations that we have here today. I said this in the context of the debate on compulsory vaccination, which a large part of society has opposed, and compulsory vaccination for workers in general and special care institutions. I continue to believe that it is not possible to work with particularly vulnerable groups in people who have not been vaccinated. If it is not possible to transfer a person to another job, it is necessary to carry out a risk analysis, which must be carried out by all institutions and businesses from 1 September, and to provide for activities to be carried out in a way that avoids exposure to vulnerable customers in a non-vaccinated person. We know today that we have vaccinated workers in general and special care institutions 83.3%, which is significantly above the national average, and we also know that 5.44% of them have also received an effectiveness dose. Moreover, clients in special care facilities have been vaccinated to a total of 91.26% and more than 2% have received an effective dose. The level of vaccination of clients in general care homes is 63,23% and the effectiveness dose has been 7,5%. These numbers give us the chance that we can live with this virus and protect people from serious illness and death.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U67	Now, the question to be specified. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U68	Thank you for your good answer. We will now come back to this information day. Of course, I would like to congratulate you and admit that your speech, I looked through it and listened attentively, was very human in contrast to the attitude of your Prime Minister, who is merely communicating with his subjects in the current crisis. We had a group meeting an hour ago with Mr Heili Sepa, the candidate of the Supreme Court, and Mr Villu Kõve, the President of the Supreme Court who presents him. We also asked them as top lawyers for a cognitive assessment, because they cannot make a direct assessment of the current situation, where the Prime Minister is cutting iron like that, that we do not have a forced vaccination. But you said here, too, that we have a document like a risk analysis right now. We are in a situation today where all institutions are obliged to carry out a document called a risk analysis, which will give the employer a completely legal opportunity and the right to discharge [the worker]. That is also what you explained on the information day, how it should be carried out then. Our guests admitted that this really is neither legally correct nor good behaviour, that all of this should be regulated by law, including vaccination. Now, on this information day, you also admitted that the risk analysis will finally give people the opportunity to be released from work, and you also said that the state will provide comprehensive support and advice, both financial and advisory, in order to help prepare these risk analyses so that they can trigger the same final solution, i.e. unvaccinated people. Does the Minister for Social Protection really stand up as a representative of the state for making it easier to let people off work, for whatever reason, or should he rather stand up for people's constitutional rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U69	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U70	Thank you, Mrs Helme, for an additional or more specific question. The Minister for Social Protection, like the whole government, stands for our people to be protected and, above all, for those who are most vulnerable. This obligation, which concerns the carrying out of a risk analysis, has been applicable since 1999. On this basis, in today's situation where the virus threatens the elderly, those of the elderly who have been trusted by family members and loved ones with the general care provider and who are present for an average of 6 to 7 months, for the last months of their lives, [they would be protected], so that this death should not be as severe and as difficult as it is for COVID, with multiple organ damage. Now, as far as risk analysis is concerned, I can talk about nursing homes. I also asked the Labour Inspectorate to carry out a monitoring exercise which revealed that 27 of the bodies examined had not carried out a risk analysis. To date, 11 of these institutions have submitted risk assessments and 16 authorities that have not yet submitted have been subject to monitoring procedures. I repeat, this is not a new demand, but a demand from 1999. It is true that the Social Insurance Board and the Labour Inspectorate support and help the general and special welfare institutions to ensure that risk assessments are based on the needs and opportunities of a specific institution, particularly and only in order to protect customers and, of course, to protect employees. In January, when we were not able to vaccinate this amount yet, there were 11% of the population in nursing homes in hospitals and 6% of the patients were ill, we reached a situation of 2.5% of the affected and 4.8% in hospital by August 24. Today, the number of people in general care institutions has risen again and the proportion of those affected is 1.9%, while the proportion of those in hospital is 2.8%. This shows that we need to protect our elderly. And I don't want to say that the number of deaths in the last week was 10% for the residents of the institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U71	A further question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As I recall years ago, when the risk analysis was introduced, its purpose was to identify dangerous and health-damaging factors. As a result, compulsory occupational health care visits were later introduced. In principle, these risk assessments were largely aimed at protecting workers and ensuring their well-being with a view to their health. Now this government has managed to reverse this risk assessment, i.e. by providing tools in the form of a risk analysis that will enable workers to be repressed, forcing employers or giving employers the obligation to force their workers to vaccinate. In fact, this Regulation sets out the basis for their vaccination that the vaccine ensures full protection. By now, we all know that this vaccine does not provide complete protection. Explain to me the essence of this risk analysis. Is it now that this is simply what has been done to force people to vaccinate and simply to repress these workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U73	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U74	Mrs Kingo, thank you for your question. I'll go over one number. The coverage of workers in general and special care institutions by vaccination is 83.3%. These are people who have wanted to protect themselves, protect their loved ones, protect customers in order to ensure that clients in general and special care institutions have a high-quality and safe service, so that we can visit our loved ones and that we do not have to see their serious illness or death. 16.7% of workers have not vaccinated themselves. We are protecting it from 16.7% serious illness and potential death, as well as those workers, 83.3% who have been vaccinated and, indeed, as we know today, can also get sick. Their illness is usually easier, but in the context of a care facility, it means quitting work and it means risk for customers. In order for us to have sustainable and efficient work in general care institutions, it is necessary to protect both vaccinated and unvaccinated workers and customers. That's the goal. The state has spent €2.53 million this year to support the activities of the institutions, offering wage support to employ temporary staff on sick leave or in close contact with workers at home. Similarly, we have provided help to communicate with loved ones, to buy tablets, and to make contact with our loved ones. But we have also provided help and support to enable the reconstruction of care facilities, improving ventilation systems, creating insulation for people who are infected or sick. We are also continuing to help with a new measure to increase the effectiveness of vaccination, and we are providing general and special care institutions with support of more than EUR 800,000 so that welfare institutions can be supported, depending on the [vaccination] level, for both staff and customers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U75	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U76	The next question is asked by Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, member of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister Kallas answers this and the issue is a corona crisis. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U77	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question is motivated and stems from the desire to ensure better vaccination arrangements in Estonia and reduce the burden on the hospital network. Unfortunately, I have not received an answer on this issue. People are ready to vaccinate themselves when regulations are reasonable, understandable and logical. We know that there is currently a procedure in place where only six months of guarantee is extended to victims of the disease, much shorter than for vaccinated people, they have one year. Yet we can see that vaccinated people are sick, and there are quite a few. But I don't know anyone who's had a disease and got sick a second time. There are also several vaccinees in the Riigikogu who have fallen ill, but not one who has suffered from the disease and has become ill again. This is also due to practice. Based on available scientific data, the Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis recommended that a positive antibody test be considered as a COVID-19 breakthrough as early as 30 July. As doctors follow this recommendation, there has been a situation where, for objective reasons, vaccination is not currently recommended by doctors because they have a sufficiently high antibody titre but, on the other hand, it is not possible to obtain COVID-19 evidence of penetration based on an antibody test. Why is there an abnormal situation that humans do not understand? However, the experts have made this recommendation, but the government has not taken this proposal seriously. We are spending resources on people we should not spend resources on today and who are not infectious. We could spend that resource on unvaccinated people. Why do we do such illogical things?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U78	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U79	Thank you. The Scientific Advisory Board has not made this recommendation to us in order to extend the period of validity of the certificate of infirmity to one year. This is also very much related to the fact that, when we decide this nationally, this proof does not apply elsewhere in the world because it has been agreed elsewhere that it will be six months. For example, when you go to Europe, it does not work as evidence of infirmity in this form. The way I see it, yes, family doctors take the antibodies into account, for example, when they give evidence of perversion. If the antibodies are very high, then the person has suffered. This is done by family doctors in accordance with the recommendations of the immunoprophylaxis committee. So, in itself, we have not been given this [extension] recommendation at the moment, and this is due to the fact that it has been agreed in Europe that it will be six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U80	Now, here's a very specific question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U81	Thank you. I still didn't understand. Doctors recommend, Arkadi Popov said it's reasonable, the immunoprophylaxis expert committee recommends it, but it's been agreed differently. Practice also confirms that it is reasonable to consider the presence of antibodies, but we are spending resources where we should not spend energy and time. This is completely irrational, and that is certainly one reason why people do not trust these calls, because they simply do not make sense and are in line with reality. But my second question concerns the possible formation of a coronal damage fund. In some countries in Europe, this has been done and, as far as I know, it has justified itself. In Estonia, too, if we call on people to come in for vaccination, it is for those people who are hesitant, who are skeptical about vaccination, that it would create such a trusty bridge that, if public authorities and government are actively calling for vaccination, then the responsibility will also be taken to ensure that these possible co-effects, possible costs, the inconveniences that the person will experience are reimbursed through this fund. It is precisely as such a credible and vaccination-friendly measure that, in my opinion, works very well. And don't start talking about you coming here with patient insurance, it's a much longer story and a wider question, it's not a substitute for acute corona vaccination damage right now. This is a much broader and more fundamental question as to whether or not we are creating such an insurance system. Does the government still take this seriously, in the same way as Finland, for example, where it has been implemented and we are quickly creating a vaccination damage fund, or does the government consider it of no importance at all, and by doing so we will not contribute to increasing the rate of vaccination and increasing people's confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U82	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U83	Thank you. I know there were a lot of political virologists in the previous government, and you also seem to have political immunology. We are based on what scientists are proposing to us, which are about antibodies, and these are medical recommendations that I do not think can be done politically unless such proposals are on the table. And by the way, if you say there aren't many sufferers, as far as I know, Ragnar Klavan suffered twice in ten months, the second time very hard. I also know the people who have suffered from this antibody test, and the test shows that he has seven antibodies, which obviously is not enough to get protection or not get sick again. But, as I said, I am not a medically educated person to comment on it more broadly. As far as this fund is concerned, yes, in Finland it already exists in the long term. We haven't had that fund so far. For me, however, it is a broader issue concerning patient insurance and it is said that people get certainty in the case of medication errors, and that damage to the possible side effects of vaccination, serious side effects, could also be included. Now, why this fund now, when we talk to behavioural scientists, is not recommended to do so separately, is precisely because we have left people who hesitate, and we still have anti-vaccines. If we are currently purely doing this fund, which concerns the side effects of the vaccine, which are not much, in fact, when we look at these reports from the Agency, we will give a completely different signal to those people whose main fear is the side effects of the vaccine. The signal is that they're setting up some kind of fund because there's a lot of damage. These losses are not, in fact, known to exist. We have four known cases where the EMA says there may be a connection to vaccinations, four such cases, in fact it is not extensive. So I support such a broader approach. The Minister for Health comes up with this proposal, including compensation for the damage caused by vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U84	A procedural question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U85	Thank you. Of course, I do not agree with the Prime Minister at all that the Finns are much more stupid than we and the systems operate differently. But my procedure was that I don't agree in any way with the assessment that the Prime Minister gave me right now, calling me a political immunologist or whatever. I quoted immunoprophylaxis as a panel of experts who, on the basis of available scientific data, have proposed. So I didn't make it up myself. I consider it very important that it stays here and goes to the record that it is not my proposal, but precisely the proposal of experts that has come from research. So let's still be precise, and let's not share estimates.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U86	Thank you. Now for an additional question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! At the public hearing of the Committee on Social Affairs on Monday, you emphasised that the aim is no longer to prevent the spread of the virus, but to protect the medical system from overload. Therefore, the government has imposed restrictions only on unvaccinated people, as they are said to be more likely to get infected and become more seriously ill, and thereby overloading hospitals as well. Quite recently, on 5 October, a thank-you event took place at the Estonia Theatre for the teachers of Tallinn schools and kindergartens. The event, which lasted for hours, followed all viral safety rules. The trial was released on the basis of a vaccination certificate, none of which were inspected on site. Whoever didn't have the evidence, they had to present Confido's negative test result. A week later, in schools, the corona wave broke out, the teachers became ill, their family members became infected, and their students became ill. Last week Tartu was an event with 300 guests in the spa. The spa was full of people. The consequences of this event will soon be seen. It is now a school break and vaccinated people are visiting all kinds of entertainment facilities on a massive scale and are not controlled. Another large corona wave is expected, caused by vaccinated people. These same races of vaccinated people infect isolated unvaccinated and healthy people. Now, please explain to me why the overloading of hospitals by vaccinated people in need of hospital care is different from the overburdening of hospitals by unvaccinated people in need of hospital care. And secondly, how does uncontrolled distribution of the virus help to control the disease of vaccinees and thus prevent hospital overload?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U88	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U89	Thank you. First of all, helir-Valdor Seeder's procedural question, which, of course, was not a procedural question, because there was no reference to any section of the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures, but to that end, I answer that I have not said in any way that the Finns are somehow dumber. On the contrary, Finns are very wise that they have long established this foundation. What I'm trying to say is that we have a situation right now where we have unvaccinated people who are either anti-vaccine or are afraid of this vaccine. The two greatest doubts are: one is that I am afraid of the side effects of the vaccine, and the other is that the vaccine will not protect anyway. Now that we're making this fund at this high point, it gives people the wrong signal, but like I said, we're going on with it. Now I come to Mrs Kingo's question. More than two times less likely to be infected by vaccinated people and more than three times less likely to be admitted to the hospital. If we take the coefficient by age, these differences are even greater. Yes, the truth is that the vaccinated person also carries the coronavir, but at least half as likely as the unvaccinated person. And in the case of the delta strain, scientists estimate that this percentage can vary between 42% and 58%. What's the difference between the previous waves? The difference between the previous waves is that in previous waves everyone has had to limit themselves because of the protection of a minority who gets seriously ill. But in this wave, it's different that there are a number of people, most people who have acted responsibly and protected themselves and others. We want to keep society as open as possible. This virus isn't going anywhere, we have to accept it and learn to live with it. That is why we are making every effort to keep society as open as possible to those who have been vaccinated and, therefore, this disease is not so severe that there is a heavy burden on hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U90	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U91	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, a member of the Government of Social Protection Minister Signe Riisalo, and the subject of the question is the priorities and funding of the field in 2022. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U92	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, you presented the plans in this area, as well as the amounts involved in the budgetary procedure. At the same time, you made it very clear that very many things are in the hands of the Riigikogu. The budget debate takes place in the Riigikogu and proposals are very welcome. My first question is about the level of income support. In a large number of cases, you have also used this statement that if people find themselves in trouble because of the increase in the price of electricity or otherwise, they can turn to a local government where public funds have the possibility to apply for income support. Those who work in this system, social workers, know that the municipality has the right to increase standards in terms of income support, but the limit is set at national level. Today, the first adult family member has 150 euros, each subsequent child has 180 euros, but the second adult still has 150 euros. That's the question. Is there a plan and the idea of raising the limit of living? Because we know how the price increase will affect everyone, and soon this current subsistence limit will just get in the way. The municipality may not have the resources to pay for additional funds, as we are constantly hearing how many tasks come in addition to the local government. Yes, it is true that there will also be financial resources, but for all things, it is clear that there will not be enough: children's education of interest, support in payments for nursing homes and all that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U93	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U94	Thank you, Mrs Helmen Hunter, very good question! I'm really glad you're asking me that question. Yeah, maybe a little bit of income support. This border was last raised in 2019. The number of recipients has been on a downward trend over the last five years, the decline has now stopped during the COVID period. We do not know whether this is directly related to COVID or whether there are other reasons, because the unemployment rate has actually stabilised. We have 10500 beneficiaries today, and five years ago there were 18,000 of them. Now small adjustment: each adult family member in addition to the first receives 120 euros and children 180, the first [adults can] 150. 17.5 million will be in next year's budget. What can local authorities do? They can really correct within that limit. But here I have a message to you and, through you, to the local authorities that only about 20 out of 79 municipalities are those who have corrected these internal borders since 2019. These internal borders vary between 25 and 100 euros, with extremely high levels in one municipality. They are very different in local governments, which is reasonable and which has been purposeful, because local circumstances are different and need to be taken into account. But these local circumstances are changing and therefore these thresholds need to be adjusted slightly more frequently. Perhaps today is a good time when they can be readjusted, because people's needs and circumstances give them greater coercion. I fully agree that the subsistence limit for 10500 households [who receive income support] is low. There are 162 households living in relative poverty in Estonia, and a very roughly one third of them are those who suffer from the price of electricity and the price of gas. I am very pleased to say that the Government of the Republic is coming up with a proposal to mitigate the rise in electricity and gas prices for households living in relative poverty from CO2 resources. But more specifically when the measure is ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U95	Thank you. Now for an additional question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U96	Thank you. Perhaps this is not the most targeted question now, but since it is budgetary, I will ask. As we know, we are constantly, day by day, talking about how we face an overload in medical facilities and do not have enough medical staff. At the same time, the government's vaccination policy has led to a situation where, according to my data, 160 medical staff, mostly nurses-sanitaries, who do not agree with the vaccination, have left or are leaving the Tartu University Hospital. We also know that a large number of existing medical staff refuse to go to work in the corona departments. Supposedly, they cannot be forced because it is a life-threatening job, as they say, and it is their own decision. There is now this freedom of decision, but in some other cases it is not, which is strange. My question is this: what kind of extras is the budgetary plans that the government now has in mind in order to alleviate this drought of workers and provide an additional incentive for people to be prepared to work in the Corona departments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U97	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U98	Thank you. Mr. Helme! First of all, with great care I have listened to the hospital managers and communicated with other medical staff as well, and I have nowhere left my ear that the mass problem is linked to the unwillingness to vaccinate myself, because if anyone, it is the medical staff who realises that the suffering of this disease and the course of this disease can be serious and long-term, with the consequences unknown to us today. Rather, there is concern expressed in the exhausting and difficult nature of work, both physically and emotionally. If, during the first waves, people were more willing to take double shifts from the family to selfless, today is not prepared. This readiness will surely also undermine the attitude of a part of society against vaccination and disease as a whole. As far as salaries and allowances are concerned, the increase in the salaries of health care workers, which we have decided and which is next year, is 10%. Part of this actually applies already this year within the framework of the collective agreement. Where to find new employees is the question of a million dollars. Overburdened hospitals need more labour and, as we know, at least two employees per patient. In addition to these costs, which are very high for the health system as a whole. Treatment of one complex patient with COVID can cost up to EUR 200000. But this question is for the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U99	Now, the question to be specified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U100	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that my home town of Viljandi is among the municipalities that have adjusted the level of subsistence and the calculation of volumes. The second issue concerns the wider issue, it concerns every municipality and every person who has a close home or may be in a care facility. Some institutions have already sent out evidence and reports that there will be a rise in the payoff and that there will be an increase as early as 1 January. Some will certainly send it in January and announce that it will rise from 1 April, this has been a different practice, as then there will also be a slight increase in pension. Very many analyses, studies and studies have been carried out on long-term care. The Development Monitoring Centre has been working on this, and in the coalition agreement you had this subject pretty strongly written in, but I will not notice this in the budget for next year. I note that the allowance for pensioners living alone will rise to 200 euros. It's all good that helps you cope on your own. Although we both know that this single-living pensioner does not really mean that [he is alone]. Two registers exchange data and both spouses can receive it if their pensions are lower than this rate when they are registered at a different address. But still helping and helping. However, in order to pay the place tax, the municipalities receive additional support, specifically for this, [I do not notice]. It is true that there is an increase in the amount of money [to be provided to municipalities through the Support Fund and the Equalisation Fund], but it is a matter of local decision-making whether it is done. The state's plan, as was the case, that it could consist of three parts of the sickness fund, the part of the person's pension and the part of the municipality with the support of the state, I do not notice there. Why don't you tell me more about these plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U101	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U102	Thank you, Mrs. Helmen Hunter! Once again, I congratulate you on this question. I will once comment on this support for a single-living pensioner only in this way so that we can understand that it is actually about 91000 of the 300000 people of retirement age, so this is a rather extensive measure. But true, it is not monthly and, in this sense, it does not help to cover today's average price, which is EUR 824 per month in the general care home and, on more expensive occasions, even more than 1000. We know that. This reward is rising and it was predictable. In the spring, I took a memorandum to the government where we introduced this tripartite component-based financing model. We're ready to move on with that. We are working to introduce component-based financing in general care homes, but also to look at the conditions of those who care for their loved ones at home, through the combination of training, holidays and social tax, so that people are not themselves in need because of their caring role. The main task of the negotiations on next year's budget is my long-term care, and that is why I will have this as one of my priorities next year. Further analyses and proposals on the financing model are also being considered, but component-based is where we have set our goals. This would ease the material burden on their loved ones and help them to focus on the training and upbringing of their children, so as to provide the last supplies to general care homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U103	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U104	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Martin Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The issue is aviation. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U105	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Well, we were in the previous government together when during the corona crisis the government decided to allocate 30 million euros to support Estonian aviation, some of which were a loan and part was a capital injection into Nordica. This decision, of course, was subject to in-depth disputes, we both remember that I was extremely sceptical about the separation of money, and we also put a whole series of conditions on it. Among other things, one condition was that direct flights between Estonia and other European capitals must also be guaranteed for this money, and, secondly, the reorganisation of aviation. I read in the paper that this reorganisation has begun to be furnished with more concrete steps, and I have questions about this. First of all, we had to get rid of the Polish airline LOT's participation in the Regional Jet, which is a subsidiary of Nordica. Am I right to understand that this participation is now over for the Poles? And I'd really like to know what kind of money, because there was a big argument about it. Secondly, I would like to know what this reorganisation is going to look like. Will everyone be moved to one new company or will there be some kind of holding company and under it will actually remain separate from the subsidiaries TVH, Nordica and Regional Jet, or will they all be merged into one new company? Thirdly, I would like to know whether we have to worry about the next capital injection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U106	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U107	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Before I begin to answer your questions, in this pre-notification of today's briefing you announced that you would like to ask me about aviation. I'm gonna start with how it started. I saw Wikipedia say that aviation (also aviation, Latin avis "bird") is a theoretical and practical area for aircraft and their flying. Aviation, or aviation, includes aircraft construction, military aviation, cargo and passenger air transport, special purpose aviation and recreational or hobby aviation, including athletic flying. That was now what I was able to do about this particular subject, like prepare to answer you. But now we have come to your specific questions. Yeah, we're done with the LOT. The Commission therefore concludes that LOT's restructuring plan does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. I must confess to you that, since I had not received the precise content of the question in advance, about the number you asked me what it cost, I am currently indebted to the answer, and I will certainly clarify and forward this number to you. But it wasn't a remarkable thing. I do not have the courage to confirm that this ended in such a way that neither side had to pay anything to the other side. I remember it might have been like this, but I need to go over it just in case I'm not wrong. Will a completely new company be created? A holding company will be set up to bring together the existing three companies: one management, one administration, accounting and all related personnel and so on, but three companies will remain. Why three? The simple reason is that it is reasonable to keep certain risks in the aviation business separate. Is a new capital injection needed? No, today's figures do not, because as far as I know, the KredEx loan of EUR 8 million has not been taken out by the airline and the airline is doing relatively well in view of the market situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U108	Now, the question to be specified. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U109	Thank you. Yeah, well, that Regional Jet dispute with LOT really was a wall wall, since they owe us $8 million, ending up with the fact that we have to pay them $8 million. If you can send me in writing after how it ended, it would be [good], I think it interests everyone in Estonia. But on the subject of this reorganisation, it is incomprehensible to me that if we are to create a basically holding company or an umbrella company to which these three separate companies are to be brought down, how will it mitigate the risks? The owner of all of them is still the same, even the owner of the daughters continues to be 100% [the same], if no one changes any participation, Regional Jet is now 100% in the administration of the Estonian state's own MKM, Transport Property Management is 100% in the administration of the state, all these contracts are actually state-owned and Nordica is 100%. I don't see what this place is to hedge the risks. However, I can see that there will be an opportunity, just as there is now, and which is not very good, for them to pay off and receive and give different credits among themselves. In fact, the country and the taxpayer have where there is income and where there is cost and how effective it is, it is much harder to monitor than if it were one consolidated company. Now I have a separate question about what we have for aviation. If this situation is more positive than expected, as I understand it, when will these direct flights still come, which was one of the assumptions of the capital injection?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U110	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U111	Thank you. First of all, the group has one accounting, that is, this result in the annual report, one in the annual balance sheet. Risk mitigation. This actually has to do with the other part of your question. I would like to begin by saying that today the Regional Jet is outsourcing to other companies, in fact the Nordic Group as a whole is flying from Tallinn, flying to both Stockholm and Warsaw, but indeed it is doing so as a outsourcing service. Contracting authorities wish that the partner from whom they purchase the outsourced service does not engage in other commercial activities, for example, would not take the risk of ticketing, because if the subcontractor has chosen one partner, they want that partner to be credible and sustainable. The main risks in aviation relate specifically to the sale of tickets. We therefore consider it important that these activities are separated. Now for direct flights. I've already told you there are direct flights in two directions. I believe that you also know from the time of the previous government that we have taken a very clear position that if we are helping businesses, it must be a one-off aid and they must act on the most market conditions possible, so that there is no risk that the aid is still needed. That is exactly how these companies have acted, and that is why, as you have pointed out, the situation of our aviation group is better than we have expected. We have decided that our airlines will only fly on a market basis, if that is possible. Today there is a situation where flights from Estonia are not so market-based either. We have good neighbours, neighbouring countries, citizens who pay part of the plane tickets when flying from Tallinn. As long as they are able or willing to continue to do so, it is very difficult to predict from here today. But once again: Estonia has decided that we will not pay for additional flying. If there are countries that want to do so, then this must simply be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U112	Now for an additional question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is likely that all Estonian people will remember what happened to Estonian Air, how the new aviation company Nordica and Estonian Air were left behind in debt, although in essence the transfer took place. This means that the former economic activity continued under a different name, the customers were the same, the employees were the same, the assets, the tools were the same. Then it was called that Estonian Air went bankrupt. I have a question that, since Nordica has also received funding from the state budget and now the Regional Jet has been made, is it planned to use the same scheme that basically there will be a transfer of the company to Regional Jet and Nordica will simply be left behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U114	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U115	No! I assure you, we don't have any transfer plans behind this decision. On the contrary! If you remember, there were disputes about this divorce or this company's bankruptcy, there were disputes with employees about making new businesses, and these disputes have been resolved by agreement today. So we tried to put an end to this situation as well and fairly as possible so that we could move forward with companies. Once again, I confirm that there are no schemes behind the creation of a group of these companies, the merger of these companies is not behind them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U116	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U117	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo, a member of the government. The subject of the question is family mediation. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U118	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good ruler, ministers Aas and Riisalo! First of all, it is a pleasure to say and acknowledge that the sense of humor in the government has survived, as [seeing that] Minister Aas has just made a little fun of answering Helme. This shows that work is being done. With regard to one aspect that this government has done, it could also be acknowledged that today there is a draft law on family mediation in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which has been developed and sent to us by the government. It would be a pleasure to see that one field and service that can be obtained in Estonia since 1997 is also regulated at the legislative level. There is, however, one concern for me, to which I would ask the Minister in the field to respond. This service has worked through the Estonian Conciliation Body, which is also a partner of the Ministry and has been issuing invitations in this field for years, but it now turns out that these people are no longer by law, at least according to the version that has reached us, family mediation cannot be carried out, since only the persons in the contract with the Social Insurance Institution are able to provide the service in the sense of the Family Conciliation Act. Today, 40 people are trained, and for some reason none of the more than 120 people who have so far provided this service have access to 40 of the training courses of the Social Insurance Board. Why is a national family agreement being created alongside a functioning system or, in fact, even a replacement, rather than a side? And as far as I understand, what has been done in Estonia so far is no longer to be called family mediation, because the law regulates this area quite precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U119	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U120	Thank you, Mr. Priit Onion! I am pleased that you have recognised the government here, and I would also like to congratulate the previous government, because it was the first time that the memorandum of family agreement was drawn up by Riina Solman, the government office. I am glad that I can now be before the Riigikogu at first reading this afternoon. But to your question. First of all, I have to say that no one has an obstacle, including those who have an invitation to family mediation, who are members of the Estonian Conciliation Body, to become a service provider on the basis of a contract. There is only one 'but' that we have previously talked about in the Commission: one additional training module must be completed, and this training module is related to the examination of the competence of hearing the child and the acquisition of skills. Why is this aspect of hearing a child very important? We have a valid Code of Civil Procedure which imposes on the judge, as it has been for many years, the obligation to listen to the child on matters relating to him. Similarly, in § 21 of the Child Protection Act, we have said that the obligation to listen to a child is in all matters relating to his or her life. Obviously, the disputes we are trying to resolve in the conciliation process before the courts, where parents are discussing the sensible arrangements for meeting the child, the size of the child's livelihood, the issues of the change in custody, are very much affecting the child's life, and that is where the child's opinion is also important. We also know that identifying a child's opinion is an exercise that requires competence and skill. We have children who are young and cannot speak, we have children who have mental disabilities or mental disorders, we have children who are victims of abuse, eyewitnesses of domestic violence, and all these situations require specific competence. I do not think that it is too much to ask that those conciliators who have obtained the invitation be able to pass through this additional training module so that, in the same way as the other conciliators whom we are training by the state today, but not only those who are not members of the conciliators' association and who have received the invitation and are going through this child's hearing training to provide the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U121	The question to be specified. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U122	Thank you. It is now such an interesting situation that those who are going to train today have received their invitation from the very same House that has so far issued it, and it now turns out that they have not been competent and must go from those to whom they have issued the invitation to learn. But I don't understand who and where in the meantime has received additional [teaching]. You referred to the children's share or module in the Family Reconciliation Act. In fact, family mediation is much narrower than international family mediation has ever understood. The law you are introducing today is basically about parental mediation and the involvement of the child. As you pointed out, children are very different, and I think it makes sense to involve children, and indeed, international law provides that they must be heard in those aspects where they are needed. But it should still go with parents and on the basis of parental discretion and will, and it should all be in the interests of the child, but I am not sure that this is the case in every context and absolutely so. Another aspect is that family mediation according to international principles can only be foreseen between equal partners. But if there has been what you referred to, domestic violence and so on, it is actually not reasonable to apply any reconciliation according to these international principles. If partners are not equal, it makes no sense to make some kind of reconciliation, because it makes no sense to make people accept when one suffers. You probably know that better than I do. How did these aspects get into this bill like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U123	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U124	Thank you, Priit! The other half of the question was very good. Indeed, the draft law on family mediation provides for special cases, such as child abuse, situations of domestic violence, including witnessing of domestic violence, and mental disorder or disability of one parent or another. In that case, we do not have a commitment to reconciliation. For these people, it is possible to go straight to court to solve problems, but we have left this possibility that if the parties agree and if the conciliator has received extra training for this. This is the training we provide. So I confirm the obligation to participate in family mediation in these emergencies, and these people will be able to resolve their problems in court, as has been the case so far. As regards the fact that the organisation that issued the invitation and the people who have completed the training required by this invitation must undergo further training, it is true that we have already carried out training with Norwegian financial mechanisms and the resources of the European Economic Area this year in order to prepare people for us. One thing that is very important is to bear in mind: since we have agreed with the Ministry of Justice on our draft law on family mediation and have reached the point that these family mediation agreements can be an administrative decision, if the Social Insurance Board so fixes them, to replace a court order on very important matters that govern people's private relations, it is therefore extra important that these people act through a public service, so that there are no different players in the private market. We are essentially talking about a decision replacing a judicial order, which, among other things, will be reflected in the population register, for example in matters of custody, or which, in the case of maintenance, will also be subject to enforcement proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U125	Now for an additional question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U126	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! You were inaccurate or such a perceived lack of truth in the Committee on Legal Affairs when you said that the members of the Chamber of Professionals, the members of the Association of Estonian Conciliators, did not have this children's hearing module. They have it there, and with it, they've trained all those who are now going to do it. But my question is whether the quality of the service will improve with this bill, in case, let us say, now the conciliators' association is excluded from the game, that we will centralise this service. Or do you think that there could still be those who have been active for 20 years and those who will be trained? Because I understand that this service is primarily intended for those who are under-insured.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U127	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U128	Thank you. Thank you, Tarmo Kruusimäe! The service is not intended for uninsured families. The service is intended for 4,000 people who have turned to the court to argue their own and partner's involvement in raising or supporting their child. This certainly is not about uninsured families. I wouldn't want that legend to move in any way. As far as hearing a child's opinion is concerned, passing through this additional module would actually open the doors to all conciliators. I see a completely different dispute here, and this dispute does not concern whether they are fitting in as a contractual partner for the Social Insurance Board as a personal mediator. There are no obstacles. The dispute is, in fact and essentially, about whether the conciliators' association itself can make these conciliation decisions. The answer is that there will continue to be an opportunity, if the conciliators' association has provided a service, the court can also make the outcome of this conciliation procedure directly applicable. This option continues to exist completely in the legal area. The only difference is that he is not in the family mediation system that we regulate under this law, and that means he is not in this funding scheme either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U129	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U130	Let's move on to question seven. It is presented by Urmas Reitelmann, a member of the Riigikogu, and Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The subject of the question is the construction assets necessary for the construction of Rail Baltic. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U131	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! While in the 1870s the biggest market for Estonian manors was St Petersburg, and transporting goods with horses and bulls proved unpleasant and cumbersome, Ritterschaft decided to build a railway. Fucked up, too! A modern railroad was built quickly, built on schedule and within budget limits. Today we are still planning Rail Baltic and we know that it is going to be considerably more expensive than the original budget. All the timidities of time have been pushed to God knows where. In addition to all other woes, we hope that if we ever have to build it, there will be goods to carry on it. There are no people anyway. At the time, 50,000 Estonians lived in St Petersburg. There were also people who wanted to drive between Revel and St. Petersburg. There is now another problem - the lack of sand and gravel. If there is still one in Harju County, then in Raplamaa and Pärnu County, the situation is already on the verge of relative fear. My question is, where do we take this aggregate, especially in a situation where, for example, the opening of new mines or new deposits takes time, if environmental studies have been included, even for up to ten years. Does this in turn delay the completion of RB, or what does it have to do with it? And how far away is it possible to bring this material without becoming insanely expensive? What about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U132	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U133	Thank you. Honourable questioner! Indeed, in the 1870's, rail was certainly much easier to build than today. It is unlikely that this railway founder carried out specific environmental studies or was involved with the involvement of local residents in this process, the selection of different routes due to this inclusion process. These things certainly remained unfinished at the time and, in many ways, why today we have gone longer, is because [the reason] is that just times and circumstances are different and, fortunately, we have considerably more democracy in different processes than we had at the time. Now, material needs. Indeed, the right thing is that the material needs for this route are great. It is also true that the best situation is in Harjumaa, then Raplamaa and Pärnumaa are in third place. But if you look at Estonia as a whole, neither is the situation in Harjumaa such that we do not need to open new careers in Harjumaa either. Because even here in the careers that are, time is beginning to come. The issue of careers in Estonia is whether we are planning to build Rail Baltic or whether we are building Rail Baltic or whether additional careers are needed in Estonia. Just as with the construction of this railroad, it is precisely with these careers that it requires a very long process, that negotiations with local residents are required. Local residents often disagree or are content with a career coming near them. At the same time, I think everyone will understand that construction material is still needed. But the opening of these careers is preceded by a very thorough work. In the Rail Baltic region, the Environmental Board has asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in a total of 25 letters, for an opinion either for a study permit or for an application for a mining permit. So actually, all the work on this line is going through different careers. In addition, I would certainly like to say here that scientists are dealing with the use, as an opportunity, of a substance to build a railway line instead of mineral resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U134	Now, the question to be specified. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U135	Thank you. Has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications made any calculations as to whether the price of sand and gravel should rise, given that the Estonian Geological Service has said that in Rapla, Harju and Pärnu counties it is necessary to maintain roads alone with a significant amount of about 30 million cubic metres? Do you have any estimate of the price of sand and gravel in Estonia, and how this will affect the maintenance of existing roads and the construction of new roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U136	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U137	Thank you. There are undoubtedly different factors in the evolution of the price of mineral resources, and certainly some of them have already reached the point of all the increases in fuel prices, the increase in the cost of the various materials necessary for the extraction of these minerals. So it's already happened. On the other hand, what I can say, the procurements that have been made today for the construction of individual objects on the Rail Baltic route, in particular eco-ducts and viaducts, have, as a rule, produced results where this procurement has not significantly increased. True, there have been eco-ducts that have become more expensive. But the reason here is not the increase in the cost of work or the cost of material, but the fact that the architectural solution of the eco-duct is different, i.e. it is made more extensive than it was planned at the moment when the location of eco-ducts was set up. There has been an increase in prices in this sense, but today we have not seen a direct increase in the price of procurement. This does not, of course, mean that it cannot come in the future, as I have already said, because of the appreciation of mining itself, but certainly also because of competition or lack of material may be the cause of appreciation. But there is no such final forecast at the moment. There will be a new assessment of the entire project that it could cost, given that the old evaluation has been carried out years ago. Apart from this latest increase in prices, it can be said that at the time the assessment was made was relatively [precise], quite well anticipated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U138	Now, one more question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U139	Thank you, good speaker! Good minister! While we are already talking about the construction of Rail Baltic here, and since we are in the process of processing the state budget in Parliament, perhaps it would be a good idea to have a small overview and an adequate assessment of how much we have in 2022 in terms of the budget expenditure for the construction of the Rail Baltic project, I mean the cost of our own state budget, not the euro money. We know that this money has not actually been spent in previous years, because the projects are dragging, stretching, stretching, and the main point of this debate is that this project is not moving at the pace that the proponents of this project have wanted. How much does this actually generate in the state budget next year? First of all, what is the amount we have, and how much is the amount that can really be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U140	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U141	Thank you. First of all, as far as the stretching of this project is concerned, these are the reasons I spoke briefly about. I think one of the biggest and most fundamental reasons was that the design process did not take place and was managed not by the three Baltic States individually, but by the central organisation. It is certainly understandable that in the planning and design process, it is important that the railway pairs meet each other so that each country does not plan the route on its own. But it is clear today that the fact that the countries themselves have taken the initiative and that the state companies themselves have taken the initiative and are dealing with it has certainly given rise to a faster process. That is why it has also been possible that we have, as I said before, reached procurement for certain processes. As far as the amount you asked about is concerned, surely our aim is that the funds that have been allocated to Estonia during the previous budget period can be spent within the time that has been given to us. Today we cannot say that we will not have any problems with design at all. Yes, the corona has left its mark here too, the designers have not been able to go to Estonia, as is known by the Spanish company, and this has undoubtedly left its mark. But, of course, the aim is to do everything to ensure that the funds that have been allocated to Estonia can be used up not by the end of the period, but by the prescribed deadline. I'm gonna have to tell you fast about the money here. Once again, I'd like to keep the opportunity for myself to be more specific. As far as I know, this number should be in the order of EUR 40 million, but I'm sure we'll take a look.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U142	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U143	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Aivar Kokk, member of the Riigikogu, and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, answers this question on the subject of maritime affairs. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U144	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, As an economic measure related to the spread of the Corona virus, in the previous coalition, we jointly adopted the Act amending the laws relating to the Estonian State's additional budget for 2020 law, which freed all ships entering the Estonian port and port raid from 1 April of the previous year until 31 March of this year, and according to the state budget of this year, from 1 April until the end of this year, the waterway charges are 50%. This decision has had a positive impact on Estonia's competitiveness. Compared to 2019 and 2020, Estonia gained additional volumes of goods, hence additional revenue for the state. While the volume of goods in our Baltic Sea region decreased by nearly 7.9% last year, the Port of Tallinn increased its volume by 7%, or 1.4 million tonnes. It is important to consider that if such a decision had not been taken, Estonia would have lost significantly in the volume of goods and also in the revenue of the state as compared to what was planned. According to the company projections, without this measure, a large part of the revenue from the planned waterway charges would have been lost and the volume of goods would have been significantly reduced. As a result, the revenue from the state budget would have been more than EUR 35 million lower. I remember that, in cooperation with you, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, improvements were made to the state budget this year, which has led us to keep the waterway charges low, and that has brought money flows and cargo ships to our ports. My question to you. I know that you yourself have supported this good low [remuneration] bill. Why is next year's draft state budget going to have a double increase in the fees for waterways compared to the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U145	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U146	Thank you. Honourable questioner! Indeed, I agree that the measures decided by the previous government regarding the COVID crisis were correct. These measures certainly worked. We know that, in the case of waterway charges alone, it is indeed not by the sector or the government, but by the independent evaluator that the calculations that these measures have brought with them and how they have helped us. Indeed, what has happened in the ports of our neighbouring countries is also a very good reference point here. So we can tell very clearly what really happened, perhaps the trade flows in Estonia increased. What would have happened if these measures had not happened is only possible to guess, we do not quite know that. But we can say what happened with these measures. Indeed, this year the reduction in the water fee is 50%, next year 25%. I think everyone in this Riigikogu understands the logic of government and government. It is about compromise, it is about finding a solution to the problems that have arisen. And that 25% is what we were able to agree on, which we were able to find a financial cover to continue with the support measure. True, not as much as before, but at least 25% we can continue. What is the result of this halved support measure, as I said before, we can appreciate all this from what is really happening in life. And indeed, the measures that we took at the time worked afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U147	The question to be specified. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U148	Thank you. Indeed, PricewaterhouseCoopers has for years analysed the economic impact of the Estonian trading corridor and based on these studies, it is estimated that the impact of this increase in the volume of goods on the country has had a positive budgetary impact of nearly 16 million euros. We are certainly proposing to continue with 50% support. But I have a very specific question. Estonian passenger shipping is a well-known trademark of Estonia and a strong guarantor of the free movement of international travellers and goods. The passenger shipping support measure introduced by Regulation No 57 of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of 24 September last year, "Conditions and arrangements for supporting international passenger shipping', helped to maintain passenger ship traffic between neighbouring countries even if the number of passengers was minimal and the organisation of voyages was loss-making for shipowners. This measure was able to maintain a large number of jobs and avoid a catastrophic situation for Estonian maritime workers. Given the current increase in the spread of the COVID-19 virus in Estonia and neighbouring countries, a serious question arises: what has changed that the Government of the Republic has decided not to continue with this aid measure? According to experts, it is only possible to recover the passenger flow to pre-pandemic levels in 2025.2026. By 31 December, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the implementation of this Decision. This development would be devastating for the Estonian maritime industry, as a large part of Estonia's professional crews would be unemployed. If we want Estonian passenger shipping to be sustainable in the future, we should continue to support passenger shipping in the coming years. What is the reason why we will not see this support in the state budget next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U149	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U150	Thank you. You are right that this support certainly had an impact on maritime jobs. I would rather look at this support from the point of view of whether our ships and these jobs will remain in Estonia, i.e. whether these ships, if this support measure is not continued, and today the decision that it will not be continued, will continue under the Estonian flag, i.e. whether the tax money that will come from these ships and which will certainly be more in the future, will come to Estonia or will not come to Estonia. There is no doubt that companies are free in their decisions and make their decision according to the market situation. In this sense, I certainly think that this measure, if such, would be important. But, as I said earlier, governance is a matter of compromise. There are issues where a compromise is found. There are issues where compromises are not found. If no compromises are found, it will also be very difficult to find financial coverage for a measure that is essentially a tax measure. So there was no consensus in this government and therefore there is no continuation of this measure. After all, this measure was also time-bound. In order for the measure to be continued, a new decision would have been needed. I'm afraid that's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U151	Now, one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Javier! I am sure that information has also come to the members of the government that there are currently three different maritime directives in the European Commission, inspired by the green turnaround, concerning both CO2 trading and fuel types, compliance of ships with standards, routes, refuelling opportunities for third countries, passenger transport opportunities and so on and so on, all of which are extremely restrictive and discriminatory from our point of view with regard to our maritime affairs. Now my question is that, since these directives threaten to essentially destroy the Estonian maritime industry, which makes everything discussed in the two previous questions pointless, and in this connection it would also extend to our ports, to freight transport, to the transport of goods groups, which are Estonia's main export articles, and would have a huge impact on the receipts of the state budget, has the government already dealt with these directives? The material is very large, just under 1,000 pages. Is Estonia prepared to stand up for its shipping, but also for other economic interests, as a staunch tin soldier, until the ash disappears?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U153	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this "Fit for 55" package concerns many aspects and one of them is maritime affairs, where so far this quota trade has not expanded, a new issue for maritime affairs. Yes, in this package, which concerns maritime affairs, I see very serious problems. We are not alone, exactly the same view as we are, for example, Greece and Cyprus. In this sense, Greece is certainly an important player in shipping within the meaning of the European Union, since practically 50% of the European Union's ships fly the Greek flag, is connected with Greece. So this is a very big player. We intend to meet these ministers, both Greek and Cypriot ministers. It's being prepared. But undoubtedly there is a problem for the maritime sector, and the problem is primarily due to the fact that in continental or, let's say, Western Europe, the fact that ships are sailing somewhere in another country to a port that does not have to implement these measures is not such a big issue. Although there is one. For example, ships that travel to the Netherlands when they travel in the meantime from England through Great Britain, in fact, the tax rate is already decreasing. This tax kind of hustling place is very clearly encoded there. This also applies to Estonia. For example, when ships come to Estonia, they pass through Kaliningrad, it is already a different tax rate. But our greatest threat is that cargo ships do not come to Estonian ports, but go to the port of Ust-Luga, for example. In fact, there is no difference between meeting the climate goal and where the ship goes to the port, after all, it has not gotten any better than that, that it went to Ust-Luga. So there are certainly problems here, they are very serious about the Estonian maritime sector. I assure you that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has shaped its positions on this matter. We see that these regulations should be made through the International Maritime Organisation, which would concern not only the European Union, but all the ports in this region. In fact, this organisation has made regional decisions in the past, for example as regards sulphur emissions. This IMO decision concerns the entire Baltic Sea and parts of the North Sea, so that this regulation must be complied with by everyone, including those ships that do not come to Estonian ports, but go to the Port of Ust-Luga. Yes, our position has been shaped and we will do everything to ensure that Estonian maritime affairs are preserved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U154	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U155	Let us move on to question nine. Member of the Riigikogu Merry Aart asks for this, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers this. The issue is migration and residence permits. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U156	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Last week I asked about the Afghans, and it caused a dozen phone calls to me. I promised to raise this question one more time, but in another context. Valgas, for example, has changed greatly, an enlarged Roma community. There is the Estonian community, the Latvian community and now the Roma community from England, which is obviously growing. It causes problems, they're richer and they're more arrogant. Last Friday, a person visited the police house of Tartu and wished to exchange his document. He didn't get in line because the Tartu Police House room was crowded. There were quite a few Negroes, there were relatively many well-dark people and dominated Ukrainian language. My question is that we have not had much of such problems in South Estonia so far, and that is quite surprising for the people of South Estonia. It seems that the number of foreigners has grown exponentially. What could be the reason for this, and what could be the legal basis if so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U157	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U158	Thank you for that question. When I look at the numbers concerning immigrants, firstly, we have an immigration limit of 0.1% of the Estonian permanent population, and this is 1315 people at the moment. The majority of citizens of Ukraine, Russia and Belarus are granted temporary residence permits issued in the framework of this year's immigration limit. If I look at developments over the years, the number of all these applications for temporary residence permits has already been completed on 2 January. But one thing is an application and the other is whether the permit has finally been issued. In recent years, licences have actually been left unused, with 32 in 2020 and 29 in 2021. What should we bear in mind? The immigration limit applies only to people coming from third countries. In the European Union, we know that we have the free movement of people, goods and services. If they are citizens of the European Union, they can and will come to Estonia on this basis. We do not know that the influx of people has increased significantly. If we look at immigration into Estonia, the biggest is the return of people with Estonian citizenship to Estonia. If we look at 2020, for example, there were 16209 people in the pool. The first and largest number of citizens of Estonian citizenship, 5900 people, the next being the citizens of the European Union, who are 3363 people, and the third is Finnish citizens, 666 people, and then there are people of Latvian citizenship, which means they are under the European Union. Thirdly, there are people of Ukrainian nationality, 1565. Finland, Germany and Latvia, of course, go under the European Union. Russian nationality is 1389. This is lower than the level of immigration in 2019. So I don't know how to match that feeling with numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U159	Now, the question to be specified. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U160	Thank you. This 1300 and a little bit apart, it's a nice number, but we all know that there's a lot of exceptions, and it doesn't cost anything at all. What I'm asking is that when they come here, they're all gonna know about Valga, for example, these same gypsies are gonna sign up for unemployment and mostly go to courses, IT courses, so they're all gonna be our future IT specialists. But the Estonian state must pay them social benefits [or they are entitled to receive them in the same way as the Estonian people. Do you know how many social benefits you could get on them? It's a complicated question, and you may not be able to answer so suddenly, but I'm still asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U161	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U162	Thank you. Citizens of the Republic of Estonia and residents of the Republic of Estonia, i.e. those who have residence permits and asylum seekers, are entitled to social benefits, but we have very few asylum seekers at all. Asylum seekers are the least available in the European Union and are also able to receive public pensions and family allowances when they receive international protection. But I do not have any information here at the moment how many of those who have a residence permit will also receive, for example, I do not know, income support or other benefits that families are receiving. I don't have this information on me right now, but maybe it's reasonable to ask it in writing from the Ministry of Social Affairs, who has more detailed information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U163	Now for an additional question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I'm quite frankly asking, I don't understand, and I need help. We have just heard and found out that the city of Valga has been flooded by the dark-skinned English gypsies speaking in Ukrainian, especially while waiting for a passport in the Valga police department, we can't get through without breaking through. This isn't really a first-time story from that left-hand ping line by the EKRE. I remember, during the 2015 election campaign, the EKRE candidates seriously said that if you do not vote for EKRE, there will soon be 50,000 refugees in Estonia. The actual number was 50 later, not 50000, but about 50 refugees received Estonia. Now it is said in Afghanistan that there have been or are coming from there, and I have heard 3000 different numbers, though 30,000. The actual number is 30, which Estonia is ready to accept. So somewhere between a hundred and a thousand times the difference. I don't really understand whether EKRE quite truly believes what he's saying, or whether he's wrong in his calculations. But somehow he finds the host party. It seems that some people really believe that there are 50,000 refugees and 30,000 Afghans coming soon in Estonia. I mean, Estonians have been very busy emigrating themselves and if we were treated as badly abroad as we are for those who come here to the few who come here, how we Estonians would feel. How has it been that we have such dissonance in this matter? Can you tell me something to help me with?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U165	A procedural question. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U166	Thank you. First of all, Valga was about the gypsies, but not the Ukrainians. Second, I have been taught that a fool is not a questioner, but a fool can be an answerer. And third, my question didn't reflect evil anywhere, but I wanted to get information. So thank you, and please don't insult the questioner or the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U167	Thank you. And now please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U168	Thank you. Indeed, when we look at numbers, asylum applications, asylum applications, mass refugees have not come to Estonia. Even if we look at the European Union, we have been absolutely the last on this list where people have wanted to come and apply for asylum. On the one hand, it is said that the quality of the country is demonstrated by people wanting to go there rather than wanting to leave it. At least in this respect it is positive that the people of Estonia are coming back to Estonia. Now, maybe one more thing I'd like to correct. Really, Afghanistan and refugees. At this point in the government, we decided that 30 people are the ones we are helping from Afghanistan, who are either connected to Estonian non-profit organisations or have helped us through NATO or the European Union. Today, in cooperation with our allies, we have brought 14 people, and six people have not been able to help, because the air link with Afghanistan has been cut off. The Police and Border Guard Board processes their asylum applications, and if everything is okay, it can go on, but it is not really visible on a massive scale at the moment. When we talk to our allies in the European Union and also in the United States, there is not yet any mass migratory pressure from Afghanistan. To this end, all Member States are also working with their countries of origin to help these people where they are, so that there is no migration pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U169	A procedural question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U170	Thank you. I just wanted to clarify the question of Merry Aart, if he's reading about the verbatim now, then actually I made a brief summary of it. He was talking about all the elements I called. I didn't add anything, I'd rather take off a word starting with an "n."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U171	Thank you. That is why this issue has been addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U172	Let's move on. Question ten. This is presented by Riigikogu member Riho Breivel and is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas. The issue is the effective transport of heavy goods by road. Riho Brievel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Javier! The question, in fact, of what the questioners have asked here about maritime transport, is not so much a compromise, but the logic is that if the maritime transport component starts to decrease and it starts to decrease, if we are not able to improve this matter by making it 50% to 25%, and there are other problems, then it happens that a large part of transport has to go to road transport, heavy goods vehicles. There is another problem with heavy goods vehicles: we are talking about there is no longer enough drivers around the world for these means of transport. Turns out we already have over 100 drivers missing. Elsewhere, let's say, in the Nordic countries heavy goods vehicles have been introduced much longer, 64 meters are allowed, but we are only allowed 43 meters. This means that there is a much larger footprint also from the point of view of green thinking, with shorter trucks in use in transport, and also for drivers, the problem could be solved. How can this problem be resolved sensibly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U174	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U175	Thank you. This problem is already being addressed in Estonia. The Department of Transport has launched a study [on the possibility of increasing the tonnage and length of combinations of vehicles]. In fact, it has to be said that we already have greater tonnage and length possibilities in Estonia than in the European Union as a whole, only with the difference that when an Estonian car travels beyond Estonia, it must be lighter and shorter, in Estonia a car can drive with higher tonnage and may also drive a longer car. The same rules, as you said, are true in the Scandinavian countries. Of course, it must also be taken into account that countries vary in size. In Estonia such long and heavy combinations of cars can only travel within Estonia; they cannot move out of Estonia. In Scandinavia, of course, where the countries are considerably larger than Estonia, their travel or activity opportunities are also much greater than in Estonia. However, as I said, Estonia is already studying whether it would be possible to increase the length and allow heavy loads. There are certainly two aspects to consider here: sorry, three aspects. One is road safety for longer vehicles, and the issue of road safety will certainly rise very seriously. Second, the weight. How do our roads suffer, how do bridges suffer? We have new roads that are suffering heavy trucks, but there are certainly also roads whose bottoms have not yet been upgraded, and there will certainly be significantly greater damage due to heavy goods vehicles. The third aspect, which must certainly be borne in mind here, is how about compliance with the law. Perhaps when 42 tons are set there, as is the case today, it is often ignored, a somewhat heavier truck is driven. But if we give a chance to move on trucks that are 60 tonnes, and if compliance isn't as good as it should be, maybe put a little more on that end, then the impact on roads, for example, is considerably greater, if it is 45 or 65 tonnes. All the more so that there are not very many roads in Estonia where such heavy trucks can move. But once again, the Transport Department has this study in place, and in the middle of next year they should come up with their proposals, which they have found, where it is possible and where it is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U176	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their answers. I thank the members of the Riigikogu for their questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U177	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 6th working week session on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. You don't see that wish. We're conducting a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U178	64 members of the Riigikogu registered. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we go to today's agenda, we have a question that needs to be discussed in this large Chamber and which comes from yesterday's session of the Riigikogu Board. More specifically, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia submitted on 21 October a draft decision of the Riigikogu, number 473, proposing to abolish the Government of the Republic's order on 23 August with the number 305 and the regulations issued on that basis. Yesterday, the Bureau discussed the situation as to whether or not to proceed with this draft. Two members of the Bureau considered that the draft had to be rejected because it was contrary to the principle of separation of powers laid down in the Constitution, and the third member of the Bureau considered that the draft had to be adopted. As we did not find consensus on the board, the board member Martin Helme wishes to put this question to the vote in the Riigikogu plenary in accordance with § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. Martin Helme, do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U179	Yeah. Yeah, I guess he didn't agree with me like the rest of the board members. I had a basic question as to why the Commission itself cannot discuss this issue, and then the Commission's position should be in the Chamber and then the Chamber will be decided. It is not stated in our Rules of Procedure that the Bureau could or could not send this draft to the Commission. It is stated that the board, if it finds [that is to send], may return, but there is a selection point. That was us, let us say, a lack of understanding as to why the Commission would not be able to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U180	Thank you, good Martin! You were at the board meeting yesterday. To the large Chamber, which was not, I will explain a little discussion in the Bureau as to why we wanted to reach this view that we could not take this draft decision into consideration. Article 4 of the Constitution states that in Estonia there is a separation of powers and the provision of separation of powers we must also check in the Riigikogu's Board of Directors when we process the drafts, in the same way we must check that the draft complies with the rules of the norm and also complies with the Constitution. Since § 4 of the Constitution provides for separation of powers and provides that the Riigikogu does its work as a legislative work and the Government of the Republic does its work as an executive work, it is therefore not possible for the Riigikogu to abolish the order given by the Government of the Republic. If any person considers that the government of the Republic is inconsistent, it is possible to do so through legal proceedings and not through the decision of the Riigikogu to revoke the government of the Republic. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U181	Thank you. Well, I looked at this bill and I did not understand which point of the Rules of Procedure Act this decision was made because we have § 154, which allows the draft Riigikogu decision in the genre "Proposal for the Government of the Republic." And it is certainly entirely legitimate that the Riigikogu discusses and decides to propose to the government its level of government legislation either way or by any means. But I looked at this bill and the bill was not about a proposal being discussed, but that the Riigikogu should decide here that government-level legislation does not apply. This right cannot of course be exercised by the Riigikogu. On which point of the Rules of Procedure has this draft decision been taken in the vision of the initiators or the Bureau?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U182	Thank you. The Bureau did not discuss which point of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure this decision was based on, but discussed whether we could accept it. The two members of the Bureau took the view that we could not accept it and that it had to be returned to the initiators. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U183	Thank you for this good overview of the arguments as to why a draft presented in this form is indeed contrary to the principle of separation of powers. But were there any arguments against the board? Did this one board member, who did not agree with this, put forward any alternative argument as to why it was constitutional and, if so, what those arguments were?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U184	Thank you. My colleague Helme, on his procedural question, also dealt with this a little bit, perhaps his opinion was that [the draft] could go to the Riigikogu commission and the committee would shape the position. But it is also the task of the Riigikogu's board of directors to be responsible for ensuring that the Riigikogu's proceedings do not have drafts that are contrary to the Constitution, either decision-making or draft laws. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U185	Thank you. It is very clear that the government itself has violated the principle of separation of powers today. One of the previous speakers made a completely absurd suggestion that we should propose to the government that the government control itself. Does he understand how absurd this proposal is? This is the reason that the government cannot control itself, and from the point of view of separation of powers, we propose that the government should not deal with legislation and give it to the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu would discuss the legality of these restrictions and the possibility of lifting or amending them. This is the job we have to do. And, by the way, the Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention to this work and, if I am not mistaken, the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U186	Thank you. Your suggestion is that the Riigikogu revokes the order given by the Government of the Republic. This cannot be done by the Riigikogu. Since this government order, which you wish to abolish, has been given under the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, the Riigikogu would be able to discuss amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. If you wish to initiate them, they will, of course, be processed and deal with as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs. But that one of the parties to the separation of powers, we are talking about the legislative, executive and judicial powers, that is, the legislative authority says that it abolishes the order of executive power, the constitution does not allow. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U187	Thank you. Some time ago, we had a conversation with the Chairman of the Supreme Court on the same subject. But my question is, if we're in a pretty critical situation, and if the government has failed in its actions to repel the corona and tries to manage these arrangements, then why... Or I ask: is the Riigikogu a rubber stamp in this situation who simply needs to watch helplessly what is happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U188	The Riigikogu is certainly not a rubber stamp. The Riigikogu has these opportunities that the Constitution gives it. The Constitution gives the Riigikogu the opportunity to initiate draft laws, draft decisions and proposals to the Government of the Republic. And in these frames, we have to deliver. So if, for example, a member of the Riigikogu or a group of members of the Riigikogu wishes to initiate amendments to the law, such as the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases, then we are completely competent to discuss it. However, the Constitution does not give us the opportunity to say that the legislative power abolishes the order of the executive. Kert Kingo.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U189	Thank you. Once again, you can see how people are looking for a reason not to do the right thing. I would point out that we have the legislative power exercised by the Riigikogu and the executive power exercised by the government. At the moment, the government has made arrangements to make decisions that should actually be in the law. So this is the bending of the rubber line to one side or the other. In this sense, I do not agree with the justification why this draft cannot be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U190	Thank you. I would like to point out once again that the order of the Government of the Republic you refer to, which you wish to revoke, is based on subsections 2, 3, 5 and 5 (1) and (3) and (6) of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. Perhaps the Government of the Republic acted under the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases. If the Riigikogu finds that this power of attorney which the Riigikogu itself has given to the Government of the Republic is inappropriate or needs to be changed, it can be discussed by the Riigikogu itself. At the moment in this Chamber we are discussing whether the Riigikogu could cancel the organisation of the Government of the Republic, and here two members of the Board of Directors of the Riigikogu have taken a clear view that the Riigikogu cannot abolish the organisation of executive power. The Riigikogu itself will, of course, be able to change the law if it so wishes. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U191	Thank you! The legal interpretation of the President of the sitting is absolutely correct, there is no doubt about it, and of course such a draft should not be dealt with in this way. But it's a formal side. After all, the substance is actually right, and colleagues [have also] highlighted it. Indeed, several other constitutional agencies have also pointed out that the Riigikogu has taken such a backseat position in the context of the whole virus situation. Well, you could say, of course, you'll start a bill there, and then we'll discuss it. I guess we've been here long enough to figure out what the fate of such drafts is. Consequently, I have a substantive question: has the Bureau discussed what the Social Democrats called for last week in order to come to an agreement between the political forces and agree in a spirit of unity on how we come through the third wave? The board could actually take the initiative here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U192	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue with regard to the question of whether or not to accept this draft, which does not preclude us from considering the convening of the Council of Elders on the Board of the Riigikogu. I'm sure we will. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U193	I'll come back to that argument. I am not here in the Riigikogu knows what from the first to second composition. In the previous composition, we had Eiki Nestor as the Speaker, who repeatedly said that the Riigikogu can do what it wants, it is the supreme authority and it can decide everything or not. And the Constitution, I will not tell you the paragraph, but the Constitution says that the Riigikogu has the right to adopt and repeal legislation just as well as regulations. In this context, especially given that we believe that the government has usurped this right of the Riigikogu and itself violated the principle of separation of powers and started to make legislative acts, the Riigikogu should have full freedom to repeal it by means of a legislative act. I admit that there will undoubtedly be a series of very interesting legal constructions here, but that is what happens when the government applies the discretionary power. The other side is the one that was also pointed out by Evgeny Ossinovski. Yes, it can be formally said that the opposition of the Riigikogu should submit some draft legislative amendment, and then we are also involved in the corona crisis, but actually we are talking about something else. If there is a general attitude in society that the Riigikogu does not deal with corona and it is all in the hands of the government, and then we have a draft which, in fact, by means of the fact that the Riigikogu also cancels the illegal arrangement, in our opinion, so that there is an opportunity for us to discuss and put in place competent or adequate arrangements, so that we do not even process it, that it does not even go to the committee, then we actually confirm that at least some part of the Riigikogu at the level of political groups or management board does not want to deal with the Korona in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U194	Thank you, good Martin! Indeed, I need to clarify and supplement your legal arguments a little bit here. Of course, we have the power of law to adopt and repeal laws. But it's the law. In this regard, the order of the Government of the Republic cannot be revoked by the Riigikogu. If you would like to repeal the Government of the Republic's order in substance, it is possible to pass on a draft law, for example, to repeal certain paragraphs of § 28 of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. If you had given it together with the group in the proceedings, the Riigikogu Board would certainly have taken it into procedure, because we have no chance of not taking it, because it would have been in accordance with the Constitution. We are currently arguing about whether the Riigikogu can do something that the Constitution does not provide for it, and the Constitution unfortunately does not provide such an opportunity for us. In substance, I believe, all members of the Riigikogu are prepared to deal with it, but in the right form. This form, which you have proposed, unfortunately does not comply with the Constitution. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U195	Thank you. Well, I generally see this kind of legal and subordinative dissonance here. If the Riigikogu can put the government in place and the Riigikogu can take the government down, then it is quite incomprehensible why the Riigikogu cannot revoke government regulations in the event of a unanimous decision or in the case of a majority decision. I see no contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U196	Thank you. Mr Helme, I must also direct you to read the comments of the Constitution and also the decisions of the Supreme Court, which say that one branch of power cannot go to cancel the decisions of another branch of power. For example, if you read different comments, read different interpretations, then the Supreme Court's ruling at the time is a reference to the fact that the Government of the Republic cannot tell who will be awarded the decoration of the Republic of Estonia. This right is the sole right of the President of the Republic to merely by analogy within the framework of [tone for example]. Reading the Constitution will certainly broaden the picture and provide clarity on what separation of powers means. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U197	Thank you. Mr President, the Isamaa Group does not have a representative on the Board of the Riigikogu and we have not been able to participate in these discussions. I do not know whether there is any legal expertise [made] on the proposal that we are going to vote on today. We've heard arguments from here and there, but has the Legal and Analytical Department or someone else made some kind of assessment and opinion on it? Is it possible to get acquainted with it? As far as I know, the Rules of Procedure Act does not necessarily oblige us to vote today. We can do this tomorrow or another working day if it has been possible to examine these arguments on the one hand and on the other. In addition to this proposal, which Mr Ossinovski made and which I consider to be very substantive in the current situation: if we have been able to negotiate, perhaps this vote will come later? We don't have to do this today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U198	Thank you, Mr. Seeder. First of all, I'm gonna start with whether or not we have to do this today. The Rules of Procedure that we ourselves have put in place say that we must take the draft into procedure within three days. Maybe we need to make a decision today. That's one. Secondly, as far as this brief legal analysis is concerned, indeed, the sitting department, together with the Legal and Analytical Department, has given us this overview, also referred to the Supreme Court decisions. It's not very long, it's a page and a half, but it's all there is to it. Thirdly, I took the mandate, knowing that this question would come today, called the Chancellor of Justice, received the same confirmation from the Chancellor of Justice of the explanatory memorandum to this proposal of the Bureau, based on the work of the sitting department and the Legal Analysis Department, of the basic references to § 4 of the Constitution, but also to § 4 of the Constitution so that I would not now be wrong to § 59 and 86 of the Government Act. And, of course, the norm rules and some Supreme Court decisions, the last of which, for example, 30 October 2009, which says that the Riigikogu is competent to resolve the issues that have been brought before it. So, indeed, this analysis exists and I can assure you that these analyses, as well as the position of the Chancellor of Justice, all confirm that, in the form proposed by the EKRE Group, this proposal is unconstitutional. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U199	Thank you, manager. We hear we're against the Constitution. But I would remind you that this morning the President of the Supreme Court sat next to me and we discussed the same thing. I am not going to say that I know the paragraphs as well as the President of the Supreme Court. But again, it's not nice to run a country like this. The second thing: we have also taken a different step, we have turned to court. But for more than 30 days, the court has been moaning, and it has not been necessary to discuss it. And now that we've come up with this, the situation is actually catastrophic. I repeat: the government has completely failed. And if we now come up at Riigikogu level with a substantive proposal to take control, you will quote different paragraphs to me. Yeah, I'm sure it is. But do you think that in the case of coronation, is it a normal [that] situation that the government has done to this day? But we need to stay here calm, look at these paragraphs and say that everything is in the best condition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U200	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. I was constructive, and I'm constructive, and I've offered you solutions. As I said, the first solution is to initiate amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, if you feel that the Government of the Republic has crossed the border there. But I recall, however, that this hall has been the one who has given the Government of the Republic these powers. If we find that these powers are too broad, we will be able to change it in this Chamber, but it will require a draft law, not a draft decision that will abolish the government of the Republic. I do not wish in any way to enter into a substantive debate about what has been done well or wrong in the prevention and control of communicable diseases. We are now discussing whether Parliament will be able to abolish the order of the Government of the Republic in this form. And he can't do that, it goes against the Constitution. Parliament has other ways of doing this. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have just said that separation of powers means, among other things, that one branch of power cannot cancel the decisions of another branch of power. Does this also mean that the Supreme Court, as the supreme institution of judicial power, cannot annul the decisions of the government? Please explain this philosophy of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U202	Thank you. This concerned the interaction between the Riigikogu and the government. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U203	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened for a long time now, let us say, to your argumentation and I fully agree with your view that, based on the principle of the separation of powers, one branch of power cannot go into another branch of power. Unfortunately, this situation has now taken place. And in order for me not to have a lot of words, I would like to mention the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, on which supervision and control are essentially imposed on two institutions, that is to say, the Health Board and, exceptionally, the police, who, in the case of such involvement, must conclude a secrecy agreement. In this situation, however, the order of the Government of the Republic has been contradicted, say, by the laws of the Riigikogu as the legislator, i.e. this control is placed on the private sector, who does not have the right to process and handle personal data. That's what's happening right now. I am now saying that, in this case, the Government of the Republic has substantially repealed or repealed the law on the protection of personal data, or any other meaning, which does not allow the actual...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U204	Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U205	Yeah, I'll be there in a minute, wait, okay? ...everyone to intervene in this area. And to add to that, as Jürgen Ligi said in yesterday's speech on behalf of the Reform Party, that we must put people in a worse position to be vaccinated, that means that the current government has deviated from constitutional order and has violated it very strongly, because no constitutional institution or its representative can take such action for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U206	Mr Grünthal, let's try to get to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U207	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U208	Yeah, but I'm telling you, we have a free microphone on Mondays. Really, let's try to formulate a question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U209	The question is, Mr. Pevkur, you and Jüri Ratas decided not to go to the billroom. You can, of course, do this and you are probably going over it, but I suggest you read § 54 of the Constitution, which says that if no other means are available, every Estonian citizen has the right to express his/her own-initiative resistance to the violent change of constitutional order. You may not be so familiar, say, with the mind of the people and the way they suffer. They lose jobs, they are subject to compulsory vaccination, etc. You two are making a decision right now. Let it go back to the committees, let the Committee on Constitutional Affairs hold the same debate that is going on here. Don't give it to the big hall! Do you understand? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U210	I didn't hear the question. Mr. Grünthal, I really hope you didn't call for violence. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U211	Thank you. Well, the Chancellor of Justice's comment is certainly relevant and correct, as well as the opinions of other experts, which have been the basis for the Bureau members' decision-making. I don't want to challenge it at all. But we're still in a strange situation. I have a question about what you said that the Riigikogu cannot discuss it, because it is contrary to the Constitution and there are other shortcomings, good legislative practice, etc. However, if there were to be here today, let's speculate, 51 votes, then the Riigikogu will be there. Well, then it can. Then the Riigikogu has taken it into procedure. We have dealt with drafts before, in which it is clear that one or the other provision is contrary to laws or the Constitution, and in the course of the procedure we have brought it into line. Didn't the Bureau see such an opportunity that we are taking the procedure and bringing it into line during the procedure? And, of course, if this is not brought into line during the procedure, it is possible for both the Chancellor of Justice and the President to intervene, so that nothing is broken in itself. Did such a discussion take place in the Bureau?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U212	Thank you, Mr. Seeder. The Executive Board is legally obliged to check compliance with the Constitution and also when they are accepted into the proceedings. If the members of the Governing Board see that there may be a contradiction with the Constitution and that understanding has also come to the attention of those who assist the Bureau, then we must also learn about this proposal in the Bureau. If we don't get this straight, the big hall will have to make that decision. Of course, if the large hall finds that the board's proposal is the other way around, it will be in the process, then it will be the decision of the great hall. But, as I said, two of the three board members have found, with all the legislation in mind, that this draft decision specifically contradicts the Constitution, and alternatives exist in substantive terms, how to deal with this situation. Mr. Kaljulaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U213	Thank you, Mr. Pevkur! First of all, I commend you for your calm and patient mind! Ladies and gentlemen of the EKRE Group seem, for some reason, to expect a negative decision to come from this Chamber, and they are already arguing that this is wrong. I would urge you to allow this House to vote anyway. I don't know, maybe all your wishes will be taken into account, and then it looks a little silly that you've been fighting it here. And if we don't count, we can keep arguing. Perhaps we should stop reading this draft so-called 'preventive first reading' and go on constructively with this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U214	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U215	Thank you, Mr President. You said that two members of the Board of the Riigikogu find this draft to be unconstitutional and one that is not unconstitutional. Your opponents were Hanno Pevkur and Jüri Ratas. I have a question for you in the sense that if we now see that the Government of the Republic has intervened in the area of work of the Riigikogu, where it essentially commands to ignore the law on the protection of personal data, why do you favour the Government of the Republic, which has actually acted against the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U216	Mr Grünthal, once again I will explain to you: your group has chosen the wrong method. If, for example, you would have wanted the order of the same Government of the Republic to be revoked, Parliament should have said that this power of attorney, on the basis of which Parliament has given the Government of the Republic such authority, is not appropriate. To this end, it is also possible for the EKRE Group to come with a draft on amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. And in that case, of course, the great hall will discuss it. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U217	Good manager! I have two questions. Does the emergency situation require emergency action? And another: when a person or an institution begins to drown, which is more important: the substance that he is trying to save himself or the form in which he gets out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U218	Mr. Ernits, I understand. This kind of interesting and intellectual conversation we can have after four o'clock when I finish chairing the hearing in the cafeteria, for example. As far as saving the drowner is concerned, I think the form by which the drowner is rescued is extremely important. If I go to save a drowner with a swam, it's complicated. If I go with the lifeline, it's possible. In this case, you have chosen a scam in the sense that it is an inappropriate way to save a drowner. If you would like to do what Parliament has to do, Parliament will have to make amendments to the draft law, in this case, to the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. But this intellectually interesting conversation, as I said, I am prepared to continue with you at the cafeteria after 4:00. Mr. Vasilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U219	Yeah, thanks! Mr Ernits's question of whether the emergency situation requires extraordinary questions or measures, whatever, I would continue to ask this question, whether the stupid situation requires stupid questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U220	It is also part of the discussion at the cafeteria. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U221	Thank you. I'm confused now. You are recommending an amendment of the draft law to the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases, but the problem is that the order empowers individuals to act and control and process personal data, but the NETS provides that this should be done by the employees of the Health Board and, under the agreement, by police staff. This bill, the draft amendment, doesn't give anything, because the content of the order is different, it's against the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U222	Mrs. Kingo, as far as I know, you've also had some contact with the law enforcement authorities, you can read the law. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Reading the legislation also means that you should understand that if the act on which the act is based, i.e. in this case the law on which the regulation is based, for example, is repealed, that regulation will also be repealed. As regards now whether or not the government of the Republic is illegal, it is possible to challenge it in court, not so that someone comes and tells the Riigikogu that the government's organisation is illegal and the organisation of the Government of the Republic is repealed by the Riigikogu. There's no way to put such a thing in front of a big hall. Kalle Grünthal, please! Let us now try to get to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U223	I have this question because you went to the law here and say that something needs to be changed and repealed. It does not make sense to me that if the Personal Data Protection Act does not permit the processing of personal data by any individual, any entrepreneur, then how can the Government of the Republic amend this law so that now any person can handle such personal data. There is already a violation of the Constitution, because the Government of the Republic has now invaded the administration of the legislator and is ordering to ignore the existing law that the Riigikogu has established. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U224	Mr. Grünthal, the law of the Government of the Republic can be assessed by the court in the Republic of Estonia. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U225	Thank you. That's what I'm going to do with this trial. I'm just asking how a court system can be implemented, which itself must comply with the same legislation that you're suggesting to go to court... Well, the circle's full! The circle is closed on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U226	The order of the Government of the Republic is contested by the administrative court. Peter Ernits, please! Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U227	Yeah, thanks! I finally heard my name too. I come back to the fact that there really is a separation of powers, etc., but I repeat: this is nevertheless an exceptional situation, although it has not been officially declared. The drowning metaphor is very good here, and you can talk about it in the cafeteria. My question is that if the government has its own order in which there are questionable issues, it has come out in [clear] discussions with the President of the Supreme Court, and we are trying to take control here, while we have taken the same path as you suggested, in court, but for over a month the court has been mooting about the same thing: what do we have to do when drowning is going on? And we're talking about the separation of powers and all that. Well, let's just drown together, as beautifully as possible, in a nice way, and observe all these paragraphs. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U228	Thank you. Parliament's mandate is to carry out the actions that the Constitution provides for us, and I believe that we in Parliament can also make use of these opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, I really think I will take the question from Mr Grünthal. I believe that we have had a substantive discussion and that we really need to decide whether we can go on today's agenda and whether we are moving forward with this draft or not moving forward. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U229	Thank you, Mr President. The Riigikogu has adopted a law that personal data cannot be handled by anyone, but the government's order allows it to do so. As far as I am aware, the hierarchy of legislation is 'you've definitely been exposed to it in an earlier life's life', says that the order has a lower legal force than the law. Now, your sentence, to appeal to the court. Clearly, the Government of the Republic has currently violated the rule of law in the implementation of its order, i.e. it has gone beyond the principles of the Constitution. The question now is whether this is the Reform Party's tactics, that we impose all kinds of restrictions on people, and that is when they go to court, because with it we are winning time and the justice system is slow. Is this your tactic to prevent the constitutional constitution from being followed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U230	Mr. Grünthal, I hear you've been to court to represent people. As a lawyer, and as a learner of [the area], I have learned that if someone sees that an order violates his or her rights, and that is indeed contrary to a higher law, under which it is issued, that is to say, by law, it can be challenged. If this appeal is so great that it requires constitutional control, then it can also be verified. So there are methods and ways to do this, there has not been a constitution, you can see, this thick book with comments, I suggest you take the Riigikogu from the library, completely there, I take it back to the library immediately, you can take the opportunity that the Riigikogu takes up and revokes the order of the Government of the Republic. There's no way. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U231	Thank you, good vice chairman. I have not represented people in court and I am not legally the most competent, which is why I am asking because there are many very similar terms for me, but there are many different terms in content. That's what may have gotten me confused with the terms, that at some point we're just going to lose focus. Let me give you a simple example here: what was it, veggies or horses, or aquatic animals or aquaculture animals? I would like to ask you that, in the event that this request for annulment of the Government of the Republic is based on the NETS, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, what was [the situation] at the time: were we in an emergency situation or were we essentially in an emergency situation or were we in a medical emergency? And does the Nets give that much free interpretation? Maybe there's a legal catch in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U232	Thank you. There is no legal hook in this dispute. In the current dispute, it is a catch that it is possible to cancel the order of the Government of the Republic by such a decision of the Riigikogu, and the Constitution does not give the power of attorney to the Riigikogu. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U233	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I hear you're returning this thick book of constitutional interpretation today. My question is, do you finally have it all figured out if somebody later, or tomorrow, starts asking? And if I take it now tonight, after you return, what will you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U234	It's not procedural. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U235	Thank you. Today is one of the moments in which we try to prevent the government of the Republic, which is contrary to the Constitution, and the government of the Republic from interfering in the sphere of the second power, legally in the Riigikogu. But I would still recall § 54, which you have now shown in that thick book, which is inside it and which [of] has comments. I would point out that if no other means are available, every Estonian citizen has the right to oppose the violent change of constitutional order. Are you really not afraid that people will lose their patience? Instead of sending this matter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs now entirely legitimate, where we will discuss the questions in favour and against, involve legal experts, you will cut through the 'legitimate solution'.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U236	Thank you. The EKRE Group did not propose a legitimate solution. I'm sorry! We're going to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, before we go to the vote, we must also call back those colleagues who went out of the Riigikogu for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention and listen carefully to what I am putting to the vote. Who is in favour of rejecting the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 473? Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U237	55 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 15 against, 0 abstentions. The proposal was supported by a draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 473 is not accepted into the Riigikogu's proceedings. And now for the details of the agenda. On today's 10th item, which is the draft law on family mediation initiated by the Government of the Republic with number 438, the committee will be presented by Marek Jürgenson, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. And on today's 16th item, the draft law on the amendment of competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 442, Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U238	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday we failed to read the first reading of the draft law amending the law on youth work initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 411. This was unfinished during the negotiation phase, and in order we have Jaak Juske and Timo Suslov. So please, Jaak Juske, the chair is yours! On behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us now talk about a much more important subject, children and young people. Whenever there is a Riigikogu election campaign, all parties in this Chamber and also outside the Riigikogu promise to give more money in the field of education, more support for children and families with children. When the elections are over and power is gained, these promises are often either forgotten or carried out in a half-way manner. However, the Social Democrats here are clearly a pleasant exception. In our time, before the elections, we promised that if we could get to the government, we would raise embarrassingly low child support. When we got to the government, we exponentially raised them. In 2015, we promised that when we came to power, we would give local governments money to support sports and recreational activities of children and young people more strongly. When we got into government, we put that promise into practice in 2017. Until today, the state is allocating more than 14 million euros each year, which is what goes on to enable municipalities to organise children's recreational and sporting activities. With this much-needed support measure, around 30,000 children will be able to visit clubs and sports clubs more this year. There is no doubt that this is a very necessary measure. Now, this spring, the government of the Reform Party and the Central Party announced that they are going to cut the budget. We can argue whether or not the budget needs to be cut, but the fact is that these cuts were started at the expense of children and it was precisely the decision to halve the same support for recreational education. What was particularly ugly and vile was that this need for a cut was justified by the need to raise teachers' salaries. I've been in contact with a lot of teachers who have been very embarrassed that today's government has put them in such a fork. Since this very silly plan of cutbacks gained a very sharp confrontation, now that we are working on the budget for next year, a few more millions have been found. However, this measure is still expected to be worth €4 million next year, which means that around 10,000 children will not receive this support next year. Yes, the government association has tried to put responsibility on the local authorities, but that is the responsibility of the state and the government, and this should continue to be fulfilled in the future. When Prime Minister Kallas recently appeared before us and spoke about how we should fight the cursed virus together more vigorously, he made such a beautiful comparison that the measures we are taking to stop the virus could be the same consensus as we are consensually allocating 2% of national defence expenditure each year. We could actually have the same consensus that we are not cutting at the expense of children and young people. Or if the country is really going bankrupt, that cuts must be made, then children and young people and education will be the last place in which we are stalling the costs, ladies and gentlemen. One more thing. Today's Minister for Education, Mrs Kersna, has quite rightly emphasised that in this viral situation for two years, the mental health of our young people is becoming increasingly serious. In fact, engaging in recreational activities, engaging in sports, gives our young people a positive experience, helps to inject joy and success into them. It is all the more necessary to find these EUR 4 million and not to tighten up this cut in recreational and sporting activities next year. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Union! It is not too late for this very embarrassing and shameful cut [to stop] the last one in life. Please pull the brake together and we will find this EUR 4 million, which is a very small amount for our state budget. Today we have the opportunity to vote against the Commission's proposal so that this draft will remain in the process and we will find this money together next year. We support children, we support recreational and sporting activities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U240	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U241	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Lately, there has really been talk here, and it has caused a lot of emotions about additional funding for recreational activities. My argument is that the current additional support for interest activities is not a systematic activity. Its purpose was to create new activities, to enable young people who were underprivileged to be interested, to support associations of interest and to provide area support. It's not bad goals. However, the basis for granting the aid is, in my opinion, completely wrong. Every municipality has its own face, depending on traditions, support systems and existing service provider. The previous speaker was right about the amount of extra money. Today's difference is 4 million. According to the Ministry of Finance, the total cost of the activities in the municipalities is 160 million. In my opinion, it is very difficult for the state to support specific activities in very diverse municipalities at an optimal and equal level. Local life should still be organised by the local government. The local government's concern, I stress, is not a lack of money, but a lack of specific areas, such as supervisors. The municipality cannot ask for additional support for the activities of interest itself. The subsidy is allocated on the basis of public statistics, i.e. the less the municipality itself has contributed to the development of the social and interest field, the greater the support. This support must not be used to finance existing activities of interest, but only to create new opportunities. Here is an example of where I live. I'm from Keila City. The city of Keila has committed 1.4 million euros in its budget to support interest activities, and that is not all. The financing of the city of Keila has been done differently. All the bases in Keila City I emphasise: all the bases in Keila City where the activities are carried out are free of charge for users. The additional support for the City of Keila's activities in 2021 was more than EUR 23000. In comparison with the neighbouring municipality, where the number of young people is virtually the same, the amount is over EUR 345000. The most absurd of all in this situation is that 150 children from neighbouring municipalities participate in the activities offered by the city of Keila, but they are not willing to do so, even partially. The town of Võru is in exactly the same situation. At national level, support should be given to the sector with a broader view and include the provision of regional services among the award criteria. The aim must be to create a level playing field for children and young people involved in activities of interest. Currently, thousands of young people participate in activities of interest in neighbouring municipalities. Municipalities are not obliged to provide services to "foreign" children and there is no obligation to ensure that their children who go to other municipalities are able to engage in activities. Here, national regional support aimed at those municipalities that are engaged in cross-border activities for children of their neighbours could help. We would support those who have invested themselves in an interest base and created opportunities for action. This support would be based on a child-based and electronic database. This topic is closely linked to educational migration, as most children who go away from home in school also take advantage of the opportunities of recreational activities close to this school. The purpose of state support is to ensure that all children and young people in Estonia have access to recreational activities regardless of the place where they are registered. I would argue that additional support for recreational activities was created when we had very small municipalities that could not provide all the services to citizens. Now, after the administrative reform, all municipalities should be able to manage their own lives. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the local elections have just ended and there will be a budget for 2022. The country has had a difficult time in the crisis and has had to support many different sectors. Sh has been supported by local governments with two additional budgets of around 170 million. In addition, due to the rapid economic recovery, the local government revenue base will grow by around 120 million in 2022. Four million were taken away from the activities of interest. My argument is that no children will be deprived of anything, the local governments' income base is sufficient and the state aid has been solid in the crisis. This means that new councils would be able to provide at least 2021 level in the 2022 budget. In fact, most probably do even more, such as Rae, Keila or Elva.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U242	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U243	Yeah, one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U244	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U245	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, do not worry. There will be no savings at the expense of young people in local governments, where council ambassadors have priorities in place, and the state will not have to worry either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U246	That concludes the negotiations and we can go to the proposal of the lead committee, which is to reject draft 411 at first reading. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 411 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U247	44 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 27 against. Draft 411 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U248	Our second item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the collective agreement and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U249	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are discussing an extremely important law that will bring our working relations back into civilised social order. The organisation of a society where labour market decisions are made in negotiations between entrepreneurs and workers, capital and work, where, in fact, those who are involved in the labour market and who are concerned by the regulations in question agree among themselves on the conditions of pay, working conditions, all possible conditions, and the possibility of extending this agreement to the whole sector. This means that an employee is given a guarantee that every employee will be treated equally, whatever his or her native language, whether he or she is a man or a woman, in his or her passport. Among other things, it helps to combat the pay gap very clearly, to combat the lure of workers from other countries who have lower prices in their home country into this slave labour. All these problems will be countered by an extended collective agreement, which we are now making possible once again. And let us correct the error that the Supreme Court indicated that the current regulation did not provide for the principle of representativeness. Today, we have corrected this mistake. Today, we can say that when workers' organisations and trade unions come together in a broad way, they agree on working conditions, it applies to everyone, whether or not you are a member of this organisation. It also means that, in fact, we are embracing the Constitution, we are embracing what the Constitution provides for, saying that workers' organisations and business organisations are very specific collectives, which the Constitution must protect. With this we defend our constitution and say: join us! By joining, we will do better Estonia together, with better and fairer working relations. The same applies to these smaller points, such as those of the trustees. We guarantee that if there are actually several trustees in the company, they will have time to do their job, they will actually be able to represent employees' concerns and ideas, and will therefore be a better partner for an entrepreneur who does not see what the company looks like. It is the trustee who guarantees this vision and thus guarantees more effective work and effective action, better productivity. Similarly, the civilised world also includes unemployment benefits, differences in the payment of supplementary unemployment benefits, additional unemployment insurance, which says that work is your right. You don't have to be in a situation where you accept any working conditions as long as you don't starve to death. That is why we are watching that the unemployed also have their rights, so that the unemployed can also prepare themselves better for the next job and that they can actually talk on equal terms about working conditions. So I hope you all support this bill. This benefits both the employee and the entrepreneur. It is good for all of us because it says: we are a real country, we really care about our people and their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U250	(Voice of the floor: "Hurrah! " Let's hear it in the hall.) Colleagues, I hope I don't have to start calling out from this remote, so please keep order. The commission has proposed a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the collective agreement law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 383. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U251	The proposal was supported by 65 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed it, with 2 abstentions. The law has been adopted again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U252	Our third item is the third reading of the draft veterinary law 384 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have just carried out the final vote, is it okay if we go to the vote without a hall call? Thank you! I will put to the vote before you a draft veterinary law 384 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U253	The proposal was supported by 70 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The veterinary law has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U254	Our fourth item is the first reading of the statement by the members of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa, Jaak Juske, Reuben Kaalepi, Uno Kaskpeiti, Martin Helme, Riho Breiveli, Leo Kunnase, Merry Aarti, Siim Pohlaku, Anti Polandmets, Helle-Moonika Helme, Mart Helme, Henn Põlluaasa, Rene Koka, Alar Lanemani, Kert Kingo, Paul Puustusmaa, Jaak Valge, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Urmas Reitelmann and Kalle Grünthal in support of Russia's indigenous peoples. Please waitress Ruuben Kaalepi, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U255	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The draft statement was initiated by 21 members of the Riigikogu from three political groups to draw attention to one of the most important issues of Estonia's value-based foreign policy concerning the fate of our tribal peoples and other indigenous peoples under the rule of the Russian Federation. This draft is the result of a long journey that began already during the previous government's term of office, when the foreign policy development plan for 2030 was adopted and laid down and formulated the objectives and principles of Estonian foreign policy. This is one way in which Estonia can draw attention and exert international pressure to stop the severe repression of the indigenous peoples of Russia, including our relatives. This draft draws the public's attention to the Russian Federation's decades of Russification Policy towards many of Russia's indigenous peoples. This policy of Russification has been particularly intensified in recent years. It is no secret that every year the situation of indigenous peoples and the pressure of Russification have become ever more brutal. Schools are closed and education in their own language is prevented. Freedom of religion is restricted, natural resources are abducted. There are dozens and hundreds of concrete examples of legislative obstacles in Russia to the learning and teaching of national languages in educational institutions. The common pattern of behaviour of the Russian authorities is the repression of peaceful demonstrations in support of the rights of indigenous peoples by means of repression and physical force, the declaration and closure of civil movements defending the interests of indigenous peoples, the repression, imprisonment and unjustly placing in a psychiatric hospital of activists who stand up for the rights of indigenous peoples. A very important part of the Russification process is to allow indigenous peoples to lose their education in their own language. This has been particularly intensified since 2018 when amendments to the educational law of the Russian Federation were adopted, which prevent educational institutions from learning and teaching national languages. There is no need to be a psychic to see its outcome over decades. If the language is destroyed, the nation will be destroyed. Against this particular amendment of the law, demonstrations by indigenous peoples took place in many parts of Russia in order to protect education in their own language. These peaceful demonstrations have been obstructed and suppressed by the internal security forces inherent in Russia. For example, demonstrations organised by the authorities in 2017 and 2018 to protect education in their own language were launched several times in Kalmõkkia, Elistas, Bashkortostan and Tatarstan. Ingušia's mass protestors fell victim to persecution by the authorities in the same year, 2018. As if not enough, the next typical pattern of Russian Federation behaviour completely ignores the right of indigenous peoples to benefit from the use of natural resources in their native habitats, as stated in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. This right is not respected and has never been respected by the Russian authorities. The destruction of natural resources and sacred places is often encouraged. For example, the lack of action by the authorities in 2018 resulted in the widespread destruction of the Burjaatia forests. It should not be forgotten here that indigenous peoples' habitats are among the most resource-rich areas in Russia, which are consistently exploited by the Russian authorities and energy companies, because Russia's geostrategic power depends on it. And this is where the countries of Europe that consume these resources are also jointly responsible for all forms of repression of indigenous peoples. For example, natural gas extracted from Nenetsland is also used by Estonia. The construction of the Ust-Luga or Laugasuu harbour complex and city in the immediate vicinity of Estonia has caused irreversible damage to the Votian and Insur folk fragments almost permanently dying out. It was in this area that the last Votian and Izuri villages were located until recently. These Laugasuu villages were nothing less than a living museum, where the ancient language, which was an invaluable subject for the linguists, was still sounded. These villages were sacrificed for oil transit, for which huge industrial facilities complexes were erected and thousands of workers were brought in. The destruction of these last villages by the country, which has been the harsh ruler of the Votian and Insimians for centuries, is like trampling on historical memories, the winner's laughter over what he won. Protecting the rights of indigenous peoples in Russia is very difficult. All the associations that stand for this will inevitably fall victim to repression. This is an increasing restriction of freedom of expression, freedom of religion and civil rights. Russia has a direct ban on the creation of parties aimed at upholding the rights of indigenous peoples. The following organisations of indigenous peoples have been banned or declared extremist since 2006: the Burjad National Congress, the Tatari Public Centre, the Tatari Youth Association Azatliq, the Chuvash National and Cultural Rebirth Society, the Nuori Karelia Youth Association and the Kalmõki Repressed Peoples Foundation. The section of extremism is also used in Russia to persecute the origins. The most under attack has been the Mari Nativeism, which has been practiced by the authorities as a direct hindrance. The works of one of the best-known native priests, or Kartti Vitali Tanakov, have been declared extremist and have thus banned several religious texts that are important to Mari's originality, and in our sense, scriptures. Dozens and dozens of fighters for the rights of indigenous peoples have been hit by repression in Russia. Many of them have been imprisoned. It would be impossible to list all of them here, so let's just say a few character names. Vladimir Hamutayev, scientist and Chairman of the Negado National Movement, was forced to leave their homeland in 2013. Fauzia Bairamova, chairman of the Tatar People's Council, imprisoned in 2014. Rafis Kashapov, leader of the Tatar National Movement, imprisoned in 2015. Bulat Sagina, Chairman of Burjad Soel, Burjad Association, imprisoned 2015. Ruslan Gvašev and Shamsudin Neguch, Cherkess nationalists, imprisoned in 2017. Ojub Titiyev, Chechen human rights activist, imprisoned 2018. Angela Matijeva and Zafira Sautijeva, spokespersons for the mass protests of the enguish, recounted in 2018. Batyrhan Agzamov, member of the Tatar Youth Association Azatliq, repressed 2019. Fayeel Alsynov, head of the Bashkor Community, repressed 2019. Airat Dilmuhamedov, Bashkir's activist, imprisoned in 2019. Actors of Kalmõk Batyr Boromannayev, Vladimir Dovdanov, Badma Bjurchiyev and Chairman of the Repressed Peoples' Foundation Arkadi Gorjayev, imprisoned all together in 2019. Aleksandr Gabychev, Yakut shaman, imprisoned and placed in a psychiatric hospital in 2020. But it's not just that. Very often, those who speak for indigenous peoples in Russia have to fear not only for the loss of liberty but also for their own lives. The murders and kidnappings of indigenous activists are also common in Russia, which the authorities refuse to investigate correctly. Among the most important are the murder of Aslan Žukov, the Cherkess youth activist Adõgee Khas in 2010, the murder of Muslim Hashagulgov, the engullish nationalist in 2018, the attempted murder of Yevgeny Hamaganov, the founder of the Burjaatian human rights movement Erhe 2015 and the kidnapping of Rustam Lianov, the enguchi activist in 2018. Dear Riigikogu! It would be impossible to imagine that all indigenous peoples would endure these repressions, this brutal violence and this repression in silence. It is customary for dramatic repressive steps to provoke only more desperate resistance. But for the vast majority of indigenous peoples, this resistance has been heroicly nonviolent. But the situation is desperate, and it has also led to desperate steps. Albert Razin was a renowned scientist, sociologist, and legendary social figure in Udmurtia. He had been one of the first Udmurt national congress convened in 1991. In 2018, he signed a public letter, one of the many, protesting against amendments to the law restricting learning in his own language. The authorities ignored all protests. On September 10th, 2019 at 8:30, Razin Udmurt's Republic duuma came with two companions to the pict, where he kept the Russian-speaking posters, one of which had Mr Rasul Hamzatov's poetry "And when my language disappears tomorrow, I am ready to die today" and the second question, "Do I have a homeland?'. At 9:45 a.m., he spilled gas and lit him on fire. Albert Razin died in the hospital from severe burns without regaining consciousness the same night. At least at present, the Republic of Estonia does not have the physical means to protect our Russian relatives and all hundreds of their tribes of destiny from forced extinction. It is for those who are forgetting their mother tongue and whose population is declining every year that the greatest need is a national impulse, and even the tiny knowledge that they are also important to the world. If Finno-Ugric peoples disappear, we Finns and perhaps Hungarians will be the last to keep this heritage. Honourable Riigikogu! The Russian people, who have historically inhabited the western part of the country, cannot regard themselves as the sole host of the vast territory that is subject to the entire Moscow Empire. This statement supports the undying right of self-determination of all nations. The same principle as the Estonian state and our manifesto of independence have been established. This statement also emphasises the need to support the preservation of the indigenous peoples of Russia and to present their history, culture and situation throughout the world. The statement calls on the United Nations, the European Union and their Member States to recognise the unmistakable right of the indigenous peoples of Russia to preserve their national character, language and culture without any discrimination or persecution. Russia has been a member of the Council of Europe since 1996 and the brutal repression of freedoms and rights in that country cannot be acceptable to other Member States. The activities of the Russian Federation towards indigenous peoples are also in clear contradiction with the Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 13 September 2007. This statement also confirms the need to examine whether the activities of the Russian Federation comply on 9 December 1948 with the definition of genocide in the second article of the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide, according to which genocide is to be regarded as, inter alia, a national, ethnic, racial or religious entity intentionally imposing conditions of residence which lead to the total or partial destruction of the entity. It must be acknowledged that the Russification policy is implemented with the obvious intention of losing the ethnic, ethnic and indeed, in some cases religious peculiarities of indigenous peoples. Estonia cannot remain indifferent, being a member of the European Union, the Council of Europe, the OECD and the OSCE and still being a member of the UN Security Council. But more so, the Estonians and the Estonian state, as a free Finno-Ugric nation state, have a moral obligation to support our brothers and other indigenous peoples living in Russia, whose way of life, languages, culture, customs and religions are threatened by the Russian policy of our eastern neighbour. We are not standing up for Russian minorities simply because of opposition. We do this not only because it is persecuted minorities, but most of all because we are talking about indigenous peoples who have lived in their country for hundreds or even thousands of years and whose attempt, in spite of centuries of foreign power, to remain themselves deserves the greatest respect and recognition. On 26 May 2020, the President of the Riigikogu received a referral and a request for assistance, signed by Mr Fauzia Bairamova, President of the National Assembly of Tatari, Syreś Boläeń, Head of the Kalmük Repressed Peoples Foundation, Arkadi Gorjayev, representative of the Kuban National Movement, Dmytro Dorovskikh, co-founder of the freedom movement in Idel-Uural, Rafis Kashapov, and Vladimir Hamutayev, Chairman of the Burjad National Congress. In this address, the Riigikogu was asked to condemn the policy of Russification, the restriction of the sovereignty of the national republics within the Russian Federation, to demand the release of political prisoners and to support the efforts of indigenous peoples to defend their culture, identity, languages and tradition. It was a request for help at a high level, which represented not only the signatories' nationalities but all the repressed indigenous peoples of Russia. At national level, Estonia has completely a soft force and we are constantly talking about its implementation in defending its value area, including towards Russia. It would be fair and justified to link it to a clear long-term strategy based on our national values and helping to achieve our national interests. We can only respond to Russia's so-called compatriotic policy by supporting and encouraging the cultural self-determination of Finno-Ugric peoples. During the discussion of this draft in the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, Members expressed doubts as to whether a value-based foreign policy could not undermine our relations with Russia. I think it is our responsibility to conduct a value-based foreign policy. We have been chosen here by the Estonian people to stand up for the principles on which the Estonian state has historically been built. In fact, the Committee on Foreign Affairs recommended that this statement be withdrawn and that it be hoped that new steps will be taken by the government at international level to support the indigenous peoples of Russia or that this issue will be raised in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I am not so naive as to hope for a value-based foreign policy in a situation where the government has trampled it all over the world, from Taiwan to Mali. The Riigikogu must take the initiative here. I would like to stress that, on several occasions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we, by the initiators of the draft, proposed amendments and improvements by all the political groups. We also took an extension and were ready to listen to all thoughts and opinions with the desire to find a consensus that would be ready to be signed by all political parties. No proposals were received. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Finno-Ugric nation state, Estonia has a moral obligation to support those nations with a long and dignified history that are threatened with a direct extinction as a result of the Russification Policy. If Estonia does not take a step towards this, we will no longer be able to talk about a value-based foreign policy. Unfortunately, there are those who think that Estonia should not have an independent foreign policy, because it would violate relations with Russia and show us too stubbornly in the eyes of the West. This attitude must not continue to sound in this Chamber of the Riigikogu because it would be sad and shameful. I ask all members of the Riigikogu, regardless of the political group, regardless of the world view, to support this draft. We stand with the support of repressed indigenous peoples. This is a matter of our national dignity. Thank you. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U256	And they're started by Riho Breivel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U257	Good manager! Good Reuben! When I signed this statement, I was thinking that when we started fighting for Estonia's independence, we had the same problem. But because there were countries that supported us, we were able to reach where we are now, and our confidence and self-consciousness rose. Russia is the place where colonised territory still exists and the international community in general plays two games. If somewhere it is said that they must be released, it is as if Russia did not have this problem. But I have a question. I believe that if the Riigikogu accepts this statement, at least it should accept it, what can our government do at international level to raise the same problem of the indigenous peoples of Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U258	Thank you. Yes, indeed, the greatest influence that this statement can have is precisely the moral effect on the will of these peoples to be themselves and to survive. Indeed, just as the Estonian people and the Baltic peoples in the harsh years of occupation looked with hope at all these signals from the West, the free world that touched us at all, at all times gave hope that we would not be forgotten, in the exact same role we are now in the most difficult situation, to inspire and remind the nations that they are being thought of. If the Riigikogu accepts this statement, there are actually a number of steps that the Government of the Republic can take to raise this issue internationally and to provide direct support to the oppressed indigenous peoples in Russia. Firstly, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs can raise this issue in all kinds of international forums, starting with the European Union, the Council of Europe, also in those international organisations of which Russia is a member. And just as the topic of the indigenous peoples of China, the genocide of the Uighurs, Estonia could also bring to the table the question of what the situation of indigenous peoples in Russia is. Secondly, we do not actually have a national comprehensive tribal support programme at the moment. It should be established, in particular, in cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture, in order to support and encourage these indigenous peoples, both culturally and with their soft power. And actually, that is the third thing that Estonia has very many tools to apply its soft power. There has been a lot of talk about this since the Information War and ending up with all kinds of cultural contacts, cultural contributions to the consciousness of the world. Estonia should use all these tools and create a comprehensive programme. I believe that, when this statement is adopted, it will be the first step towards giving the Government of the Republic a signal that there are very many more opportunities in this area to do what has not been done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U259	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U260	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Above all, my applause: classical hate speech, "5+," just perfect! But I have a very specific question. I could mention the dozens of indigenous peoples who need support, they are in Ukraine, Canada, the USA or China, those same Uighurs or Sioos or Hungarians, close to us, in Ukraine. The question really is purely technical: when are your new statements to be expected, where there would already be something in the title like "Supporting the Indigenous Peoples of Ukraine" or "Supporting the Indigenous Peoples of Canada," etc. Well, that's interesting. You might want to keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U261	Thank you. I believe that if you have observed the activities of this Riigikogu, I have stood very consistently for Estonia's defence of the principle of self-determination of indigenous peoples and peoples throughout the world. With regard to this draft, too, I would point out that it is not only restricted to our kindred people, but that we are dealing equally with all indigenous peoples in Russia, regardless of their number, language or geographical area. Since the term hate speech has been released here, I think that hate speech is more of a question than you justify this policy of Russification and the brutal repression with which the Russian authorities have created the situation that, in a few decades' time, the number of indigenous peoples living in Russia is likely to be much lower than today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U262	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U263	Thank you for offering me the opportunity to ask a question. Good waitress! I have two questions, but they are short and partly overlapping. First of all, would the adoption of this bill mean a change in Estonian foreign policy, namely following an ethical foreign policy line that the Estonian Government has not done so far? Secondly, what would be the damage to Estonia's foreign policy if this bill was not adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U264	Thank you. I rather think that failing to adopt this draft would mean a major and sad change in Estonian foreign policy, because with it we would retreat from the values set out both in our historical documents and in all the basic documents of foreign policy. That would be the first great damage to Estonian foreign policy, we would lose it and renounce the fundamental foundations of our foreign policy. I quote from the foreign policy development plan adopted two years ago until 2030, which says: "We will stand by the indigenous peoples [... ] rights and support the preservation and development of the world's cultural and linguistic diversity. " This is one of the most important principles of this foreign policy development plan, because it is precisely included in a small number of foreign policy objectives. If we were to abandon this principle, it would be a direct blow to the continuity of our foreign policy. On the other hand, the question arises as to what steps we have taken to comply with this point of the foreign policy agenda. One way to do that would be to adopt this draft. But what further damage would that bring to foreign policy? I think that any concessions to Russia and showing weakness in relations with Russia are very damaging to Estonia in the long term. This is because it gives a signal to Russia that it is possible to influence Estonia to deviate from its principles and in the future it will be possible to trade with Estonia on matters of our sovereignty. And thirdly, this would give up the opportunity to take initiative in our foreign policy. I think that if the Riigikogu can initiate and raise foreign policy issues, it will be a sign of our national maturity and will testify to our strength. Trusting foreign policy only with ministry officials to lead is a sign of weakness. And maybe lastly, we'd lose credibility as a country. I am sure that the majority of the Estonian people would expect the Riigikogu to take a bolder stance and stand up for its values, especially with regard to topics of historical and cultural importance, such as indigenous peoples in Russia. If this bill were voted down, it would be a huge blow to the credibility of our political class and our government. It would signal the stagnation and bureaucracy of our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U265	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U266	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You have pointed out here that Russia has defined in its legislation a concept such as 'the indigenous people'. I have two questions. Is this bill just the first question that the laws of the Russian Federation say is the indigenous people, or is it [from the rest]? There are also international definitions of indigenous peoples. And now that Russia has defined the indigenous people in its legislation, do you know that Russia's laws have given the indigenous peoples any rights that they are seriously violating today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U267	Yeah, thanks! Russia's legislation calls indigenous peoples only those nations with fewer than 50,000. But this draft is strictly based on the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, adopted in 2007. This declaration does not set any quantitative limit, unlike Russian law, and does not link it to being an indigenous nation. Russia's legislation, which seeks to redefine the concept of indigenous peoples, is inherently dishonest and politically motivated. Its aim is to suppress potential claims for self-determination by indigenous peoples and efforts for freedom. In view of this, I see no reason why the Riigikogu should be guided by Russian legislation when formulating its statement. We are clearly based here on international law and the intrinsic concept of indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U268	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U269	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! During the debate on this draft, we have heard such statements from opponents that there is no restriction of the freedom of religion of indigenous peoples in Russia. Can you give examples of whether this is the case or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U270	Thank you. As I have also pointed out in my presentation, the authorities of the Russian Federation have been obstructing, for example, the practice of the traditional religion of Maris and the conduct of religious services. Mari natives have repeatedly been called extremists, and this is a very serious accusation at national level in Russia and in legislation. It is used as a pattern to justify repression. For example, the authorities have been constantly obsessed with the Mari religious leader Vitali Tanakov, who was already convicted in 2006 under the paragraph of extremism and sentenced to forced labour for 120 hours. In order to exert pressure on him, his son was also arrested on the basis of fabricated evidence. The books issued by Tanakov, including the religious texts of Mari tradition, are banned in Russia. At the same time, the authorities have intervened directly in the conduct of religious services; it is forbidden to disclose religious services publicly, such as in the press. Their conduct in the country of the country is prohibited and has been prevented by force. Similarly, religious freedom is restricted to many indigenous Muslims.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U271	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U272	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! After all, on 13 September 2007, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. The question for me is that it is a beautiful document. Surely it is very comprehensive and it also protects someone. But the naked paper, as we know, doesn't protect anything. I have a question as to whether you have any information on whether the UN or this paper will allow any real steps to be taken to protect indigenous peoples, if, for example, these indigenous peoples themselves cannot stand up for their rights as they would like.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U273	Thank you. If you are referring to an international criminal court or other such institutions, then no, it is not possible to initiate international trials on the basis of this declaration, as this text is declarative and non-binding in nature. However, it is possible to accept declarations made at national level on the basis of this declaration. For all UN Member States which do not adhere to the principles of this declaration and who, whether the People's Republic of China or Russia, seriously violate a large number of points in the Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, it is possible to refer very directly to these violations. And that is what we would do if we accepted the statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U274	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U275	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am pleased that such a statement is being discussed here in the Riigikogu today. All indigenous peoples around the world who have to live in any prison of nations, small and abandoned, on the basis of a stronger right in a way or another, can only enjoy this statement. After all, we, who were also under occupation for 50 years and were living under the conditions of a prison of nations, were happy every time anyone in any world dared to talk about our own existence. Unfortunately, this bill, which would be like a breath of fresh air for the indigenous peoples of Russia, has also here our opponents, which are more than strange, even in view of our own history. It is absolutely incredible that the opponents of this draft have announced that there will be no repression of indigenous peoples in Russia and that those who claim to be so are a dubious group. Can you read again here the names and titles of those who asked the Riigikogu for help from indigenous peoples in 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U276	Thank you. Sure I can. It is then a very dignified group, who are representatives of a number of endangered indigenous peoples, many of whom have also been victims of repression, because they do not represent the official organisations to which the Kremlin has sanctioned. These persons were then chairman of the National Council of Tatari, Fauzia Bairamova, senior member of the Ersa rural people Syreś Boläeń, Chairman of the Kalmõk Repressed Peoples' Foundation Arkadi Gorjayev, representative of the Kuban National Movement, Dmitro Dorovskikh, co-founder of the Idel-Uural Freedom Movement, Rafis Kašapov, and Chairman of the Burjad National Congress Vladimir Hamutayev.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U277	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, When dealing with the draft statement of the Riigikogu, it is possible to ask both speakers, i.e. the initiator and the rapporteur of the committee, one oral question. Colleagues Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U278	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for this very thorough and constructive presentation. I myself am a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and was present in these discussions. There, as one of the objections to this statement, was the possibility that it would give Russia a reason and an incentive to repress these indigenous peoples more strongly than has been the case so far, and to harass their representatives and their advocates of identity, culture and the preservation of their nation. What would you say to those who make such claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U279	Thank you. Look, as a counter-argument to the fact that Estonia stands for its principles, that it is as if we need to maintain good relations with Russia and hope for good will by this very repressive regime, which, regardless of our will, represses these nations, has created a situation where it is very difficult or impossible for many nations to learn in their native language, who suppresses any kind of resistance, dissent and stand up for their identity, restricts freedom of religion and robs natural resources, if we really think that by failing to accept this statement in the Riigikogu, the situation of the indigenous peoples of Russia will ease, [we would be mistaken]. I'm sure you can't think like that. Here we must come back to this original principle that the best we can do, and perhaps even the greatest thing we can do, is precisely to give a strong signal to the world public that these nations have not been forgotten. This may be the only thing that now encourages them to survive, to wait for better times. We do not know the political situation in Russia in 10 years' time, 50 years' time, 100 years' time. Just as the Estonian people survived and were able to create their own nation state and survive as a nation when the Russian Empire broke down, just as it is now most important that these nations can preserve their native language, their own identity, their own culture, their own traditions. If we encourage them to do so, we have done the best we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U280	No further questions. Thank you! The review of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is provided by Eerik-Niles Kross. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U281	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs unexpectedly asked me to present the Commission's position on this statement. Initially, Mikhail Lotman, vice-president of the Commission, wanted to do so, but unfortunately he is ill. I am about to say that I am going to mix a little content with procedural issues; formally, I should only talk about the procedure. First of all, I am very grateful to Mr Kaalep that this subject has reached this hall. This is indeed an important issue and is also evidenced by the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the text of this statement in as many as seven sessions. I believe that even the Treaty of Accession to the European Union or the issues of Tartu Peace have not been discussed in so many meetings of the Commission. This application was submitted by 21 members of the Riigikogu on 12 May. The deadline for submitting amendments was 27 May, unfortunately no amendments were received by that time. In some respects, the Commission was forced to take a decision, although the authors repeatedly pointed out that they were prepared to change the wording. Through procedural amendments, this text could no longer be amended, and the Commission could not, as a result of the opposition of the political groups, manage to produce a new text that would be better suited to the other political groups. As a result, this text is also, more or less in its original form, in this vote today, with some linguistic corrections that do not change the content. We started this procedure in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 14 September. Ruuben Kaalep introduced the content and purpose of the draft and emphasised, as in this Chamber, that this is an important and serious issue concerning our eastern policies and those aspects in which Estonia has a special and important role to play, in order to protect and at international level, to draw attention to the rights and problems of our culturally connected relatives and all other indigenous peoples. I will say immediately that this is a position that all the other Members of the Commission also agreed unanimously. Mikhail Lotman said he understood the spirit of such a statement, but its formulation in relation to indigenous peoples is problematic. Ruuben Kaalep considered Finno-Ugric people the most important, but the problem concerns all the indigenous peoples of Russia, as Kaalep said. Lotman pointed out that the Finno-Ugric peoples were not mentioned at all in the text of the statement, and that the term "indigenous peoples" should be replaced by the term "denial peoples." The chairman of the committee proposed that the political groups should shape their opinion and that the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs continue. It continued on 16 September, but no substantive discussion was reached this time. The committee president, Marko Mihkelson, proposed that the contents of the draft be more serious and discussed and asked the initiators for agreement to postpone the decision to put the draft on the plenary agenda. The initiators were represented by Henn Põlluaas, who agreed to this proposal. On 30 September, the first major debate took place, with various experts and representatives of the indigenous peoples of Russia invited. Sven-Erik Soosaar, expert member of the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Peoples, Jaak Prozes, adviser to the Fenno-Ugria Foundation, representative of Ingerizomians from Thailando-Kalevi Raudalainen and, in addition, adviser to the International Organisations and Human Rights Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Rein Oidekivi, were invited. I'm going to open up a little bit of what one or another expert said, because it's essential for further understanding of the current situation. Soosaar explained that Russia recognises the existence of indigenous peoples, but they have a list of small indigenous peoples under federal law, with a maximum of 50,000 people. Right now, there are 48 indigenous peoples on this list. The main programmes aimed at protecting indigenous peoples are specifically aimed at these small indigenous peoples, and this means that most of the large Finno-Ugric peoples are out of protection, the so-called defence programmes of the Russian Federation. Prozes said the same thing and said that what concerns the restriction of freedom of religion for Maris is not factually true. He added that, as far as demonstrations are concerned, Russia has a law restricting the organisation of demonstrations and that it applies everywhere and to everyone. From a Finno-Ugric point of view, it has not been heard that ethnic demonstrations have been disbanded. Prozes proposed trying to find common positions with, for example, Hungary or Finland or raising the issue at EU level, as the problem also concerns language groups other than Finno-Ugric people. Raudalainen explained that Russia has a much more fragmented term for indigenous peoples than it is internationally understood. There is a certain territoriality attached to the activities of small nations and they are forced to cooperate with local municipal authorities. Raudalainen was of the opinion that, in the current wording, the statement could cause more damage than benefits. He felt that the text of the statement should be more clearly focused. Oidekivi of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that the topic of indigenous peoples is one of the highest priorities among the human rights issues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The United Nations General Assembly has announced the International Decade of Indigenous Languages 2022 to 2032. According to Oidekivi, the adoption of the statement in the Riigikogu would not help to improve the situation of indigenous peoples, but rather may fear the opposite reaction from the Russian authorities. He recommended consulting people who are in direct contact with Finno-Ugric peoples, as well as representatives of Setos. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski said that indigenous peoples should be protected wisely so that they would not be harmed more, and asked whether Finno-Ugric representatives were also represented in local governments and what about the Finno-Ugric people's representation in the Russian authorities. Prozes replied that none of the Finno-Ugric republics in Russia were run by a representative of the indigenous people. Lotman said that all the peoples of Russia had been discriminated against and believed that the statement should not be an isolated act, but must be consistent. The Commission then discussed this issue on 11 October. The members of the committee expressed doubts about the adoption of the statement in this form in the Riigikogu and were of the opinion that it would be more effective to raise the issue of the situation of indigenous peoples living in Russia, together with co-ordinate countries at international level. One way would be to launch a debate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for example. At that point it was clear that no member of the Commission or political group, with the exception of the initiators, would support the adoption of the text of the statement in the proposed form. The chairman of the committee, Marko Mihkelson, recommended that, following discussions, the initiators withdraw the text and consider reaching a consensus on the issue at large and a broader discussion of the matter in the Riigikogu. We have not reached a consensus today, but at least we are discussing it more widely here. Ruuben Kaalep, the initiators' representative, did not agree with the proposal to withdraw the text, but agreed to change the wording of the text of the statement if necessary. On 12 October, the following meeting was held at which the chairman of the committee proposed that another substantive discussion be held with experts. This took place on 18 October, where the Commission heard the views of Aare Hõrn, Foreign Affairs Advisor to the Union of Northwest and Setomaa, representative of the NGO URALIC Centre. Northwest gave a thorough and quite realistic overview of the situation of minorities in Russia and Russia's national policies. Importantly, Northwest said: "Because the statement begins with the concepts of genocide and deliberate Russification, he does not consider this to be a realistic assessment of the situation. " He did not see any reference to the Genocide in the original address addressed to the President of the Riigikogu. He added that international human rights organisations, which closely monitor the situation of the indigenous peoples of Russia, are critical of Russia, but they do not use such concepts. He saw no reason why Estonia should be tougher in its statement. Northwest was of the opinion that the term "genocide" should not be handled lightly, which would reduce Estonia's international credibility. Northwest was of the opinion that such a statement could have a negative effect on our tribal peoples in Russia. The statement would provide Russia with good material for an anti-Estonian information war, would make it difficult to communicate apolitically, and cooperation between Estonia and civil society with Russian tribal peoples at grassroots level. At the same time, Northwest said that it was difficult to see the benefits this statement could bring. For its part, the Northwest suggested not to accept this statement. Raivo Tamm, who is also the president of the Finno-Ugric Support Group of the Riigikogu, stated that this was a difficult situation and felt that the Commission could also listen to the views of representatives of the tribal peoples. Mr Lotman was of the opinion that this statement was not good in this form, and he was not in favour of using the word 'genocide' either. Imre Sooäär asked whether, in conclusion to today's debate, the statement would rather damage the current situation of our tribal peoples. Northwest said the statement would put the activists and leaders of our tribal movement under attack in Russia. The Treasure of the Gentle agreed with the Northwest. Henn Põljaas said that the situation of small and indigenous peoples in Russia is not good. He felt that the statement had to be moved forward and agreed to change the wording. He also said that the applicants would certainly be pleased to have an international dimension. On 21 October the Commission took stock of the hearings. The committee president, Mr Mihkelson, again proposed that the initiator withdraw the text and start drafting a new text. This was not accepted by the applicants. Ruuben Kaalep stressed that the statement needed to be discussed in the plenary session of the Riigikogu and that the statement should be adopted as such. Mr Mihkelson put the text of the statement to the vote in committee. The result of the vote was 2 in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. The Commission decided not to support the adoption of the statement in this form. Mikhail Lotman was appointed to present this statement, and I did it for him here today. I will add a few corrections to the previous statement by Reuben. The Tribal Peoples Programme, established by the Government of the Republic, is currently the fifth tribal programme in Estonia for the years 2021 to 2027. It is true that this concerns not all the indigenous peoples of Russia, but the Finno-Ugric people, including the Nenets and Uralic peoples. As regards the naming of genocide in this text, it is problematic for me too. From an international perspective, a consensus has been reached that genocide has occurred in very few cases. We all know these cases internationally. The deportation of Estonians in 1949, for example, may have elements of genocide, but so far it is not qualified for genocide. If we come up with such a statement and use the word 'genocide', I must agree with the experts who went to the committee to talk about it, that we are putting ourselves under a very simple blow, and the result may be that we are on our backs when we get news that the Estonian Riigikogu has wrongly accused the Russian Federation of the genocide of indigenous peoples. Every self-respecting expert in international law, even in Estonia, not to mention the Western countries, is forced to say that they believe that genocide does not take place, or at least they do not have any information about it. All members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I am sure that most members of the Riigikogu agree that our tribal peoples in the Russian Federation and indigenous peoples are discriminated against at all. We have no dispute on this issue; we all obviously agree that Estonia must do everything in its power to help them. Most members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs consider that adopting such a statement in this way would rather not help them and would rather reduce our chances of helping them believably and effectively in the future. I am very sorry that we did not reach an agreement between the political groups on the text of this statement. I would very much like us to come back to this issue, either in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or in another format, as soon as possible. But today, unfortunately, I have to recommend, at least for my part, not to accept the text of this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U282	Wait, the questions too! The questions are first from Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U283	Good waitress! I'm sure this text has something to do with real life, but it's like it's deliberately imprecise and full of exaggerations. It was very difficult to see exactly where the problems were. If [the protocol] is read out, then generalisations should also be made. [Protocol] is not really for reading. Would you sum up what would be the damage to the excesses and inaccuracies that exist in this text?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U284	There are, in fact, a number of questions in your question, and there are several answers to that question. The first big question is, what is the right policy on a matter such as discrimination and oppression against relatives in Russia? How should we, how should the Estonian state help them? We remember from our own hands how Estonia was during the occupation, say, American tea: the American Congress occasionally accepted fierce statements, supported our fight for freedom, and we were all very happy or at least a large part of the Estonian people were very happy about it. As Reuben said, we were waiting for these signals. We can take the view that this is what we should be doing now. At the same time, Finland's tea was also observed, which was very restrained. The success queen never talked about the occupation of Estonia or our oppression. But Kekkonen went to the University of Tartu and at the grassroots level the Finns helped us in a different way, but very effectively. This too helped us to survive. Which way was it? Which one was better, which one was worse? I don't think there's one answer to that. Estonia today is probably somewhere between two, given its situation, its size, its geopolitical situation. We are in NATO and we know a nuclear weapon behind us, but on the other hand we are neighbours of Russia and we have very many personal ties with the indigenous peoples there. This is perhaps the point of discussion here too, which balance we need to find. Today, in this wording, it is rather the text of the United States Senate. Now, when it comes to excesses, here are some factual errors. For example, Maris are called the Scriptures. There's no such thing, the Maris' thrill is not a book religion. They don't have their own scriptures, they can't be banned. It is true that some books on this subject are banned, but that is a completely different matter. It is quite doubtful to refer to the genocide convention, as I have already mentioned. This is, in fact, perhaps the most suspicious link that arises with this statement. If anyone reads the text of this statement and the word "genocide" is in the first or second sentence, everything else gets suspicious. In this case, we should make a very comprehensive explanatory statement and prove this in some way. But if we go to the international court today with the fact that there is an anti-Native genocide in Russia, I believe we will not get far with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U285	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U286	Thank you. To be honest, I am quite surprised that the representative of the Commission is talking about this debate that took place in the Commission and brings out only one party's arguments and quotes them, and the rest leaves absolutely aside, as if nothing else had happened, gives a completely distorted picture of the debate that took place there. This is not absolutely appropriate, but completely biased and unacceptable action. The argument that Russia is accused of genocide in this statement is also a false claim taken out of the ceiling. Nothing, half a word of it here is that Russia is accused of genocide. I would ask the representative of the Commission to remain objective and to speak about matters as they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U287	Since I didn't hear the question, I'm not answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U288	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U289	Yeah, thanks! I hope you can hear my question. I am listening and listening to this spin and I am asking whether I understand that most members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs were based on the decision on this application and you are also recommending that the decision of the Riigikogu today be based on the argument that let's not upset the prison guard, otherwise he will go and beat up the prisoner even more. Whose side are we on, and how do we define ourselves in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U290	I do not know what arguments or considerations most of the members of the Commission were based on. They found in their speeches that this text needed to be rewritten. They agreed to this in principle, this subject needs to be addressed. It would probably not be bad for the Riigikogu statement either, but we could not find such a form of cooperation to become consensus on this text.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U291	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U292	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! It is very welcome that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has discussed this issue so thoroughly. You made a number of very effective counter arguments. But what I am asking is what was the readiness of the political groups and political parties in the Commission to start from scratch on this subject, to take up a white paper and to start writing a joint statement on a more or less similar subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U293	There was no group that would not have wanted to move on this issue more seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U294	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U295	Thank you. Good waitress! One thing is not true, however, and it is precisely because the reason why the Commission made a decision not to support this draft could not be the result of a disagreement with the wording, because the reason why the debate on this subject was delayed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for so long was that the initiators repeatedly and repeatedly gave the opportunity to present their own amendments, that all political groups should come up with the appropriate wording, but that no amendments were received, not any wish to change the wording, to delete a sentence or to replace a few words. There was no such wish, so this argument is inherently insincere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U296	It is true that the drafters repeatedly stated that they were ready for change, but it is also true that such a form of cooperation did not arise for reasons unknown to me, where representatives of the Commission or representatives of the political groups would have sat down, opened up this text and tried to agree on a consensual text.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U297	Thank you very much. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations and the representatives of the political groups and committees can speak. The first to sign up is Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U298	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues and, of course, people who follow sessions online either directly or much later! Strangely enough, I am currently the representative of the Isamaa Group. I think that it would have been much more competent to present the position, perhaps Mikhail Lotman, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who, unfortunately, cannot be here at this moment, perhaps also former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Urmas Reinsalu, who is also former Minister of Justice and quite a bit familiar with the issues of the repressed, and perhaps a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Finno-Ugric Support Group Raivo Tamm. But here I am, vice-president of the Finno-Ugric Support Group and one of the signatories. Here I would like to personally thank Reuben for this good initiative. We have a moral obligation to help the smaller and weaker and the weak. We should never forget this, and every such contribution will also give others confidence that they will not be left alone in this world. In recent days, I have received a lot of letters from quite serious and credible representatives of the Fennougric peoples. And I have to say, of course, if I remember when I was younger myself, I wanted to radically settle everything. I remember even when Avo Violin let us out of prison, I wanted to call what he did a genocide. Perhaps my question was that if money has been taken from our cultural fund, how many Wiiralts will not be born and our preamble is to promote Estonian language and culture, but he played it all down. Later, I realized that the word didn't fit everywhere. Perhaps here we, the entire Riigikogu and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, were a little upset when the previous President invited the President of the neighbouring country to this eighth World Congress of Finno-Ugric Peoples. We could still coordinate these things. But yes, now I am also a messenger here, I say that although there were discussions in the group on the text, and I think the reason why no amendments had been tabled in this short time was that we had quite such an intensive period of work in spring, no one simply had the physical scope to carry it out so directly. Later, however, in later months, everyone has had the opportunity to get into it. Will he bring more benefits or harm if we accept him in this form? The Eerik-Niles Kross was already talking about the facts. I would perhaps like to read one of these little paragraphs [in front], which is the point we have: "The second and far more serious story is that the Finno-Ugric peoples do not need such a statement. Hasn't heard it at the level of any organization, let alone at the level of an individual. This statement, however, clearly threatens to disrupt cooperation between Finno-Ugric peoples altogether; few cultural contacts will be interrupted, and scientific contacts will certainly be a decisive blow. The result, however, is that all our national humanitarianism is suffering. Today we are in a situation where we are unable to provide the slightest spiritual food for the Finno-Ugric peoples living in the Russian Federation. Be it awards to the best poets, translators, writers or scientific literature, for example. Supporting these publications in national languages, we can essentially say that we are breaking up with today's work." I, as one of the signatories, did not withdraw my signature. But what I'm saying is that we cannot get this statement because we know that it is written out of a good idea, to vote against, but this long list of factual accuracy and these dangers does not allow us to support it either. Therefore, as a group, we will not take a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U299	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U300	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision moved around here in the corridors of the Riigikogu in the spring of this year, because in June, the World Congress of the Finno-Ugric Peoples of VIII was coming in Estonia and the fate of Finno-Ugric peoples, the tribal companions of Russia in particular, was a particularly topical issue. I personally did not belong to the authors of the original text of this draft decision, but since the fate of the tribal brothers has been a subject close to my heart for many years, and since I thought it was important that this very important subject could be discussed by the Riigikogu both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the large hall, I signed my support letter and this draft decision came into Riigikogu proceedings. Indeed, as has been rightly recalled here, we have the privilege of being Estonians. We are one of three Finno-Ugric people who have had history playing their part in creating a nation state in its full dimensions. Very many other Finno-Ugric peoples living in Russia have not had such an opportunity, at least so far. As Estonians, perhaps we have a moral obligation to contribute to our tribal brothers if they are to be persecuted in some way by Russian rulers. This is indeed our moral obligation to the Finno-Ugric world. Indeed, I am pleased that the Committee on Foreign Affairs took this issue seriously. It was not just the draft that was discussed among itself, but the experts involved in this discussion process, both human rights experts, representatives of cultural societies, and undoubtedly representatives of Fenno-Ugria, who really have perhaps the best expertise on this Finno-Ugric issue. During these in-depth discussions, as the good colleague Eerik-Niles pointed out, both substantive errors and a number of factual errors emerged in the text of this draft decision. And, as has been rightly said, at one point it was no longer possible to propose amendments. The Social Democrats are convinced that there should be as broad a consensus as possible on such an important issue as the fate of Finno-Ugric peoples or Russian minorities. This similar draft decision should actually be drawn up by all the political groups together, i.e. going to the starting point of this process, taking up a white paper and starting to draw up it together. Or another way: today, this draft decision has the signatures of the representatives of the three groups, but it could actually be that it is initiated not by the political groups, but by representatives of all political groups. In any case, this bill would have much greater weight and also much greater hope of obtaining the necessary number of votes in favour in this large Chamber. For these reasons, the Group of the Social Democratic Party will not vote in favour of this specific draft decision today. Thank you. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U301	Thank you very much. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U302	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I saw a little piece of TV last night where four school girls were talking about a girl being bullied at a bus stop, quite brutally and brutally bullied. The bus stop was crowded and no one intervened. They just looked at it. Some people went away instead. No one stood up for that little girl. Today, I have the feeling that the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia will identify with the same people who prefer to be silent, stick their heads in the sand and do nothing to protect a little girl, in this case small Russian people and indigenous peoples. This is extremely unethical, it is extremely immoral, it is extremely ugly, because in your heart you know that these people at the bus stop were not doing the right thing, and that we in this Chamber too, if the Riigikogu were to reject this statement, would not do the same. In his presentation, Reuben gave a great many examples of discrimination, repression, Ruben's russification against small peoples and indigenous peoples in Russia. This is an absolutely undeniable fact. No one will argue with that. No one argued against this either in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And yet there's nothing you can do about it. Although we have been in exactly the same situation in our history. We have been repressed, we have been persecuted, we have been russified, our national identity and culture have been attempted to be destroyed. And we have been extremely grateful for all the messages that have come from other parts of the world, whether from a country or from politicians or organisations, because it has given us support and strength to continue. Today's situation in Russia, these very small and indigenous peoples have actually survived exactly the same sufferings as our people, because we too were deported and repressed, but this has continued for another 30 years since the break-up of the Soviet Union and continues to date. It was only this year that the Russian Parliament passed the law that the government has the right to introduce spelling rules for the languages of small peoples and indigenous peoples. Come on! There was no such thing even in the Soviet Union when we were occupied. You think it's all okay? Let's be quiet. Maybe someone's upset. This is not an absolutely right or justified attitude. We did have various 'experts' attending the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It was rather strange for me to listen when the same Northwest, mentioned here by Eerik-Niles Kross, told us that there was really no discrimination or Russification in Russia. I don't know, maybe some people think that this person is an expert, I don't think he is. And as I mentioned earlier in my question, it is extremely strange that... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U303	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U304	... if the rapporteur of the Commission points out only the arguments against this statement in this large Chamber and not a word or a half mention of the positive and supportive arguments that were raised in the debate. At the first debate, Eerik himself was in favour of this statement, but at some point there was a turn of events. Well, I can't tell you, they were some sort of party-in-law sort of arrangement, where he got that kind of instruction, too. If we recall our own history, it is not far from being 1980 when we had youth riots, when 40 letters were written and published, in which we were concerned precisely about these very things, about the well-being of our nation, our language and our culture. We opposed the fact that the Estonian people would be russified. What if it's done to others? Well, let them do it, let's put our heads in the sand, let's not react, maybe Russia will upset us. At the same time, Oidekivi, representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said that Russia probably does not change the attitude towards us in any way, because Russia is going to treat us badly anyway, Russia is going to attack us, there will be no change here. And it is completely unfounded to say that if we make this statement, these small peoples and indigenous peoples and their representatives will be tempted and discriminated against even more. This is done all the time anyway, and that is what attention must be paid to. It is very regrettable that in May we gave this statement, and now in the autumn we discussed it repeatedly, and it is on the initiative of the performers that all political parties, all members of the Riigikogu, all political groups can make improvements if there is something unacceptable in this text, or we can make it even better. There were no proposals. The subject was raised as if Russia was being accused here of genocide. If you read this text, there's no charge. But genocide, according to the 1949 Geneva Convention, is not just about putting people up against the wall, but it is also about creating living conditions for nationalities or ethnic groups that are not conducive to their survival. I suggest you read what the Riigikogu calls for in its statement. Stresses the need to support the preservation of the ethnic heritage, language and tradition of the indigenous peoples of Russia and to present the history and current situation of their culture worldwide, condemns Russia's attempts to Russify indigenous peoples, etc. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you really any of you dare say that this...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U305	Time, Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U306	...is wrong? I sincerely hope that the Estonian Riigikogu will not act as a school bully, as was shown yesterday on television, where no one dared to step out to protect a small child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U307	Reuben, we only have representatives of the political groups in the negotiations. Do you want a line? Please, line!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U308	Thank you. I would like to say to the opponents of this bill that it is wrong and foolish to put forward demagogic arguments as if this statement would bring us more harm than good. Yes, this, of course, irritates Russia and forces these few existing cultural contacts to be further restricted. But isn't that inevitable? What are we talking about in a situation where most national movements of indigenous peoples have already been [prohibited], [these nations have] been declared foreign agents, extremists and separatists, and their leaders have been imprisoned? What are the benefits of maintaining the current situation where cultural contacts can be limited to those that the Kremlin has approved? Getting behind these arguments only shows cowardice, insularity, slavery and the inability to conduct an independent foreign policy of an independent state. We are not only betraying our kindred peoples and the tribal movement, but all the indigenous and small peoples of Russia, for whom the Republic of Estonia, once a part of the Russian Empire, have gained independence, are an example that is equal to freedom. In such a situation, Estonian foreign policy is still in office. It's an eternity-wide office silence, where no Udmurt sounds, no Evenk sounds, no Vepsian sounds, no Nivhi. It is the silence of the forgotten nations. And what about the people who betray their principles who sell their heart for glass beads? Please, we are a straight-line representative of a dignified indigenous nation. We support this bill and show the world that the nations captured by the Russian Empire have not been forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U309	Thank you. There's no further call, I'm closing the negotiations. If amendments had been tabled, they would have to be examined, but as the reports have shown, there are no amendments, so we can go to the final vote. The decision shall be taken by a simple majority, with a majority of the votes cast in favour or against. First of all, it's a sergeant. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Riigikogu statement "in support of the indigenous peoples of Russia" initiated by 21 members of the Riigikogu 391. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U310	There are 15 ambassadors in favour of the application, 46 against, no abstentions. The application was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U311	We will go to today's next item, which is the Bill 394 of Amendment of the Commercial Code and the Accounting Act (Digitions in Company Law) initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is a second reading and the rapporteur is Mr Marek Jürgenson, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U312	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On Thursday, 21 October, a meeting of the Legal Affairs Committee took place at which 394 SE, a draft law amending the Commercial Code and the Accounting Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, was prepared for a second and third reading. Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast were present here. Vaike Murumets, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice, and Advisor Maarit Puhm, President of Heler Tammiste and Auditor's Assembly Märt-Martin Development were also invited. No amendments to this draft were received from the Riigikogu within the prescribed deadline. The Estonian Bar Association and the Auditor Council responded to the letter of engagement, who presented their views. In addition, a letter was received from the Financial Supervision Authority stating that they did not see the problems and that they did not wish to participate in the discussion. The Commission proposed three amendments to the draft and related to deadlines. The initial period of entry into force of [amendments of law] should have been 1 August, but they can actually enter into force at the end of this year, 31 December. In the Commission, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda, including 27 October, today (there was consensus), that the second reading be closed (also consensus), and that when the second reading is closed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 10 November (including consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U313	And there's also a way to ask questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U314	Good manager! Good waitress! I have the question that, if earlier it was 1 August and not the last date of July, why now it is 31 December and not 1 January 2022? This was certainly explained in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U315	It didn't make much difference. It was important for us to keep it in this year's number. December 31st was our joint decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U316	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U317	Good manager! Good waitress! I take it that, for example, the Banking Association has said that a foreign company will no longer have to register a branch in Estonia to operate in the future. The Union says that this will potentially lead to money laundering and make it more difficult to prevent terrorist financing. But it hasn't been taken into account. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U318	We have taken into account the positions of the Ministry of Justice here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U319	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U320	Thank you. You said the Commission just decided that. The financial year begins in most cases on 1 January. There are companies that have another date, but most of them still have 1 January, not 31 December. This may give rise to certain differences in some accounts. And another thing, that's what Peter asked for, it's really bad news now that there's inside that branches don't have to do. We have done the opposite here in previous formations: all foreign companies that want to manage and also try to make money laundering or tax evasion in Estonia must register branches here so that money can move and taxes remain in Estonia. Did the Commission discuss how taxes could go somewhere else? The fact that banks that have to monitor money laundering have proposed this and the Commission did not support it still raises a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U321	This was not directly discussed by the Commission, but once you have examined this draft, you will understand very well that, in fact, the same draft will make the whole process more transparent. And that's what it's all about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U322	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U323	Good manager! There's no room here, but I'm gonna keep going a little bit on the other side. It is still the same, these foreign companies. The Banking Association has said that Estonian law can lay down the conditions necessary to enable the same foreign company to carry out economic activities in Estonia. However, the Ministry says that imposing such claims on a foreign company would be contrary to the principles of spatial adjustment of law and that Estonian law applies only to the territory of Estonia. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U324	How do I comment? I shall comment on this in such a way that we clearly did not discuss this issue in particular in the Commission. If we read this protocol and look at the positions of the Justice Department, it's obvious that they didn't see any of the dangers you're describing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U325	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Now we can go to the negotiations if that is what we want. There is no wish for negotiations either, so the negotiations are closed. Let us examine the amendments. Three amendments have been tabled. The first author is the Committee on Legal Affairs and the lead committee has decided to take full account of it. Amendment 2, the author is also the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of this. The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and taken fully into account. We have now also examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 394 be terminated. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U326	Today's item No 6 is the second reading of draft 404 of the Law of Obligations Act and Amendment of Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (transposition of the Digital Content, Consumer Sales and Modified Consumer Rights Directives). I call Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, as a waitress for the remote. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U327	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues and, of course, the people who follow us online or through observation! As Marek Jürgenson said earlier, last Thursday was on the Committee on Legal Affairs. We considered, prepared for a second reading of the same draft, which is necessary for transposing the directives on digital content, consumer sales and consumer rights (404 SE). The only proposal that came to us came from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It actually touched on this was, and perhaps it did not make sense to see why boots were given as an example, so that the guarantee could not be two years but one year in the case of used items. It couldn't find any support. As some ambassadors have already said here, there is no need to read the minutes in detail. However, I would like to point out that I myself asked one question, which was the point: if today we have a lifetime guarantee for Leatherman and Zippo, and if now, when we sell them, Zippo or Leatherman, the guarantee will fall to one year, does that mean that the doctor has said that we have only one year left? That's a trick question. But we find out that two years is actually an obligation, and the trader can extend his liability even by granting a lifetime guarantee. As a member of the Commission, it is a good thing that now we can at least break down these disputes, that if you buy a phone, a computer or something else and then there is a program and you reload it, then in advance, that it is not your responsibility, but that the manufacturer is responsible for its content. Procedural decisions were also taken. [Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today, 27 October 2021 (consensus: Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast). Secondly, to propose the termination of the second reading (including consensus and the same names). And third, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 10 November 2021 (again consensus). I kindly agree to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U328	There's a question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U329	Good manager! Good waitress! You spoke a little about the opinion and proposal of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Let me get this straight. They wanted a shorter warranty period for second-hand goods? Did the Commission also invite a representative of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to the committee to discuss this issue in depth?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U330	Thank you for this question. We had a video bridge through [meeting]. I'll tell you who we had right now... Marko Udras was invited, and he later said that the proposal had been made by the second hand of their co-operation committee, so that it is the salesmen of the products used in Estonian, or what they are, realization and everything else that gives the product a new life. Originally, they had this example that if there is a pair of boots, the producer should be responsible for two years, but if the same trader wants to realise his own goods that have been used, for example, in a realization centre, then the [guarantee] could be one year. As a general rule, we were talking about digital content and such things, this boot example was not very good. He was also repeatedly asked, and then he said that their responsibility was simply to propose it. Our job was to see if he was hooking up, but he may have been a little bit incomprehensible. I think that if there are debates and there is a problem, of course we could [ask for clarification]. Well, I didn't get exactly what the problem was. We understand that if you have bought a second-hand item, then normally an Estonian person does not expect to have a guarantee of any kind, in the case of this boot example. Similarly, representatives of the ministry said that if you buy a battery drill, for example, but you use it so intensively for so many things, working time is also important, for example, in everyday use and 8 to 10 hours in a row, it burns out much faster. These were the arguments on which we relied.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U331	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U332	Good manager! Good waitress! I will continue with this proposal from the same Chamber of Commerce, but I will ask more broadly, because it is not visible from the protocol. Sometimes, in the case of directives, it is possible that vassal countries or States Parties may be given the opportunity to adjust it slightly. As a rule, we have not used these [options], we have transposed [the directive] as we should. But did you also have a debate on the ground that why this possibility of a more flexible approach, which is possible for this directive, was not implemented? Did you have such a discussion or didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U333	Thank you for this question. It was more of a first meeting than a bill was presented. Then it became clear to us that we were still based on what had previously been a problem that had been solved. And it was that once you bought or got a renewed package, the manufacturer didn't want to give it his guarantee, because it's like you've taken it yourself, it's your decision. And of course it was also that previously it was that you must now go and formalize your software update on the site at the agency and then buy it. These are the things that have been [problems]. Perhaps those who sold us some minor innovations or other things did not want to be held responsible for the digital content. But now this directive provides that if it is a producer and it takes money for this product and there is a contractual relationship that is defined in the Law of Obligations Act, it must also be held accountable and has a duration of two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U334	No further questions. Thank you, Tarmo! We can open negotiations. But there is no wish for negotiations, so I will close the negotiations. No amendments were tabled. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 404 be discontinued. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U335	Let's go to the seventh item on today's agenda. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and related amendments to other laws 413. This is a first reading. First of all, the rapporteur is the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik. Please, Tanel!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U336	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and related amendments to other laws 413. This draft relates to Regulation No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use and repealing earlier Directive 2001/20/EC. The purpose of the directly applicable EU Regulation is to harmonise the requirements for clinical trials across the EU in order to ensure that the data obtained from clinical trials are stable and reliable, that patients have access to safer treatments, and that uniform requirements are in place to ensure the quality and safety of medicinal products used in clinical trials. At the same time, it also ensures a high level of protection of patients' rights and safety throughout the European Union. As a major change, the process of applying for the authorisation of clinical trials will clearly be simplified, i.e. once the new EU Regulation is in force, this process will be simplified so that the application for a study permit will be made on the basis of a single application in all the Member States requested, through the European Union Clinical Trials Portal and paper-free. This application for a clinical trial shall be assessed jointly by the Member States and a joint final decision shall be drawn up for that purpose. The final results of any clinical trial shall be in a common European Union database and shall therefore be made available to the public, such as a summary of the study assessment and the results of the survey inspection. The sponsor shall also pay a one-off fee in one Member State when applying for a clinical trial. At present, these fees exist in several countries, in many different ways. In Estonia, for example, there is a separate Medicines Agency [payable fee], an Ethics Committee [payable fee] and a state fee, so it also clearly simplifies. The applicant for a clinical trial for a medicinal product shall be able to communicate throughout the process with the Agency of one Member State, which shall coordinate the procedure and exchange of information between the applicant and the other Member States and which shall also prepare a scientific evaluation report on the application. The Estonian Medicines Agency, which has long experience in coordinating and evaluating international processes in assessing applications for marketing authorisations for medicinal products, is also ready to take this role. The Agency will also act as the Estonian contact point for clinical trials in the European Union. This means that the authorisation process is coordinated by the Agency, involving and taking into account the assessment made by the Ethics Committee. It also regulates the areas of clinical trials on medicinal products which are left to the discretion of the Member States under the EU Regulation. Such issues include evaluation of ethical aspects related to a clinical trial, determining the language of the application dossier, differences in obtaining informed consent from persons with reduced capacity, admission of medicinal products for use in a clinical trial to the territory of the country, rules governing the extent and assumptions of compensation for the harm caused to the subject, qualification requirements of the investigator, penalties for non-compliance, professional evaluation fees for the assessment of a clinical trial and other requirements for national regulation. Another important major package of amendments is that there is an opportunity to compensate for the damage caused by the clinical trial. We know that it is important for the patient to always ensure maximum safety, maximum security. And now, unlike the current system, according to the new regulation, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will compensate for any health damage caused by taking part in a clinical trial of a medicinal product or medical device and using a hospital exemption medicine. In turn, the Health Insurance Fund will have a right of recovery against the sponsor of the clinical trial. The current regime does not provide for such an option. A third major change, to be mentioned separately, will be the possibility of preparing and using in hospitals, exceptionally, advanced medicines, or hospital exemption medicines. In addition to updating the requirements for pharmaceutical research, these changes will create the possibility of preparing and using, as indicated, novel medicines, or hospital exemptions, in hospitals. Article 3 (7) of Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the possibility, exceptionally, of preparing and using novelty medicinal products on a patient-specific basis under the sole professional responsibility of a specialised medical practitioner. These are medicines called advanced therapy medicinal products, which are divided into gene therapy, somatic cell therapy and tissue engineered medicines in the European Union, and which provide patients with new therapies for the treatment of certain types of diseases and dysfunctions. The hospital exemption is the exceptional preparation and use of a novelty medicine, in this case in Estonia, on the basis of an individual request from a specialist doctor and under professional responsibility for the treatment of a specific patient in a hospital. By way of derogation, the medicinal product may be prepared under conditions where the patient's current treatment options are exhausted, i.e. the use of the medicinal product is medically justified and there is sufficient scientific evidence to suggest that the benefit outweighs the potential risk of the medicinal product being used. This amendment allows patients to be offered treatment options that were not available to date. In addition, on the basis of data obtained from the use of a hospital dispenser, it is possible to start clinical trials with the medicinal product at a later stage and then to obtain a marketing authorisation, which is the usual situation for the medicinal products to be authorised accordingly. The regulation of the hospital exemption also allows planning of specific developments and opportunities for cooperation between Estonian universities, biotechnology companies and hospitals. There is a financial envelope for these costs arising from the amendments necessary for the implementation of the European Union Regulation. The Agency has been allocated a total of EUR 172644 from the state budget for implementation of the Regulation for the period 2022 to 2025, which is EUR 43161 per year. The Structural Funds also finance a one-off cost of EUR 267200 for the development of the Agency's clinical trial database. In view of the above, the draft has also proposed amendments to the Medical Device Act, to the Law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs, to the Health Insurance Act, to the State Fees Act and to the Blood Act. The legislative amendment package is planned to enter into force on 31 January 2022, with amendments to the legislation on clinical trials of veterinary medicinal products coming into force on 28 January 2022, and the provisions on hospital exemption regulation will enter into force in general. It's quite technical, but it's an important bill for the pharmaceutical sector. That concludes the introduction and I am happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U337	There are some questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U338	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This law also deals with gene therapy and mRNA therapy. But the problem is, gene therapy is mostly that a normally functioning gene is implanted into tissue cells with severe damage. Sometimes these treatments are also used to suppress mutant gene manifestations, but generally gene therapy is only used to relieve very serious diseases. Today, it is still a young and evolving treatment method with a very, very high risk of complications. I now ask: what are the diseases that are intended to be treated on the basis of this bill? And the second question is that, as this is a European Union directive that applies across Europe, I think it would be more reasonable not to do this treatment in Estonia, because the population of Estonia is a little too small to carry out these tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U339	Thank you. I'll start at the end. However, this is a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council to which this draft relates. However, if you have a more serious interest in which specific diseases you may be treated, you referred to gene therapy and other treatment options outlined here, then I sincerely recommend that you invite representatives of the political group or the Commission, either from the Agency or from the hospital. I am not competent to provide an exhaustive list of which specific diagnosis can be better addressed in the future with one therapy or another treatment option. However, this draft is based on expertise in the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U340	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U341	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In my 15 years ago, I saw the end of the clinical research of a Swiss company in a particular case right here in Tallinn. You spoke about the European Union and the Member States of the Union. Are these new rules also applicable to third countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U342	Thank you. As I have pointed out, it is precisely the clinical trials databases in the European Union, their interoperability. I can ask you to clarify whether another country that is closely linked to the European Union has joined it. In general, however, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) deals with medicines, their marketing authorisations and related matters. And these clinical trials equally concern the 27 Member States of the European Union. But I can specify whether there is another country that has decided to join a similar process or is trying to act as a partner there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U343	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U344	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Does this regulation fix the need for prior consent of the patient to conduct a clinical trial on these new medicinal products, or may it be done without the consent of the patient?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U345	Thank you. When we talk about the general principle, of course participation in pharmaceutical studies, participation in clinical trials always requires the consent of the patient. Rather, the logic of the draft is, as I have pointed out, to reduce the bureaucratic side at the expense of the study that is being carried out and on the basis of which any specific authorisation is sought, not to apply separately in several dozen points, which extend the whole process, but to launch it on the basis of a single application for authorisation in several Member States of the European Union. The countries of the European Union communicate with each other through pharmaceutical agencies in order to agree on these requirements, criteria according to the procedures in force. As I pointed out, the golden rule is to get the patient's consent. Among other things, as I have pointed out, the right to reimbursement will be added as a positive change for the patient should there be any health damage arising from the use of a hospital dispenser or from participating in a clinical trial, in contrast to the previous one. So in this light, the situation is actually getting more favourable for the patient. If you are asking whether a hospital dispenser can be used under any circumstances without the patient's consent, you really need to specify this, because the hospital dispenser can be used in a very difficult situation where, for example, family members or other close relatives decide whether to use this particular treatment. As I have pointed out, this concerns patients whose other treatment options have been exhausted. In essence, this is an extremely critical situation where the patient may no longer be able to give consent or refuse to do so. In such a situation, a distinction may be allowed as to whether the authorisation is granted by close relatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U346	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U347	Good manager! Dear Minister, Let's move on from here to the question of the previous speaker. It is still very clear here: "The legal framework for the hospital exemption allows researchers and smaller pharmaceutical companies to create innovative medicines for specific patients and at the same time ensures their safety and the expected effectiveness. " The way this safety is achieved, I can't tell you, because when tests are performed, the safety is very nibin-nabin. Now there are two questions. Where do I read the law that I'm being asked that this drug is being used on me? And the other is either a medical damage fund has been set up, or where there is a place where, if you accidentally screw up, you want the best, then the damage you cause me will be compensated. How much and how will it be done? Our party has proposed the creation of a medical damage fund. It could be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U348	Thank you. Now, I think you're talking about vaccines, but when we're talking about a patient insurance system, it's something we're starting to work out, and it's about all the possible medical errors that have been made in a health care facility. This is also what we discussed in the previous coalition, so that a person could be entitled to receive compensation from a central fund or compensation through an insurance company if there was some kind of medication error in the institution. If we are talking about a hospital exemption or a clinical trial, the related benefit would be a person's right to apply to a health insurance fund. The Health Insurance Fund shall reimburse it and, in turn, shall be able to recover it, as I referred to before, from the sponsor of a clinical trial, who is generally the manufacturer of a particular medicinal product or the different parties, if this is caused by them. The exact amounts will, of course, depend on the specific case, the extent of the possible damage to health, the exact number here, one gold number cannot be said. But I certainly also support the principle that we have expressed in the past and, indeed, the Party of Isamaa recently expressed that we could move forward, together with the creation of patient insurance, by ensuring that we can deal with the damage to vaccines separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U349	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U350	Good manager! Good minister! [I ask] the same subject continues, but I have not coordinated it with my colleague. Wouldn't it be appropriate for this fine bill in itself, for the recounting of the regulation, given today's context, to graft on either the vaccine damage or the drug damage fund? Then this bill would have a much greater meaning in the current context. Would that be possible, since this issue has now been taken apart?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U351	Thank you. In fact, we have many pharmaceutical laws. We, too, in the Committee on Social Affairs, had one debate with the chairman of the committee, and we still have proposals in the process of amending the medicine law relatively often in Parliament. In this case, it is indeed a time-critical draft in the light of the need to adopt the necessary amendments so that they can enter into force in January. We have agreed, at coalition level, that we will come up with a comprehensive system of patient insurance, along with proposals for solutions relating to vaccine damage and possible side effects. But, of course, in saying this, I am not tired of repeating that the COVID-19 disease we are talking about today has side effects, complications and all the other times and times more likely and significantly more serious than any side effects that may result from these vaccines. So, in terms of time-criticality, it is, of course, reasonable for every person to do the vaccination as soon as possible in order to protect and protect his or her health and life. The fact that we will later reach patient insurance, as well as the treatment of vaccine damage, is absolutely necessary. I regret, in this sense, that we have not arrived there ten years earlier, even though these issues have been discussed several times. But you could say better now than never.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U352	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I happen to have read the executive edition of the Penal Code, which deals with human experimentation without the consent of a human being. These comments make it clear that the International Convention on Human Rights and Biomedical must be applied, according to which the person must be informed of what is being done to him and that he or she must be given an explicit statement that he or she agrees with it. It also provides for compensation for any damage caused during the trials. And, by the way, it's already already really in place as a regulation, I don't remember now, I think it was in the medicine law. But I'm asking you that you previously answered here that yes, we are willing to do these things, even if a person is unable to answer, the loved ones give [for him consent]. To what extent does this regulation comply with this International Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U354	Thank you very much. Of course, both European Union law and Estonian law are in line with the various conventions, the current regime. And always when we talk about the European Union or Estonia, pharmaceutical ethics has been a crucial place, i.e. no experiments or any such decision-findings will not be carried out lightly. Promises are not made lightly. There is no question of patient safety either. As I referred to earlier, the use of the hospital exception is an extreme situation in which a specific medicine is being developed for a particular patient for which no previous studies have been carried out and no marketing authorisation has been granted. Very well in black and white, and frankly, this is a situation where there is a choice between a very bad scenario and the possibility that perhaps this hospital exemption medicine will improve the condition of this person. Perhaps, as I was referring to, this hospital exception applies to situations where other treatments have been exhausted. I think we all understand what that means in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U355	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U356	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. It's not that I don't care about people, but it's also about veterinary medicines. I'm reading about documenting, entering the study, exiting, sponsoring, state fees, anything. However, if, for example, this clinical study is negative and there is economic damage, is there any mention here of who will take responsibility and who will compensate for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U357	In the case of veterinary medicinal products, who compensates for the damage? [[Merry Aart explains the floor.]] Yes, the question is understandable. I honestly have to admit that my mistake, I focused more on people's medications. In order to answer this question, I must specify which harm compensation mechanism applies to the use of veterinary medicinal products. We will send you a reply later in writing if you may.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U358	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U359	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I would first like to say that this bill is a good one. I don't want to argue about it. But I'm going to have another question about getting answers here. When I read that hospitals are given opportunities, I understand that we actually give pharmaceutical companies the opportunity to do experimental drugs without fulfilling most of the requirements they've met so far. There's also a note somewhere about how much these medications could cost the health insurance fund. Doesn't it end up when we give certain companies a very sweet mouthful to get to work now? In my opinion, there is still a very high risk to hospitals hidden in this bill, but we are giving pharmaceutical companies the opportunity to experiment with people without complying with the laws and requirements that have still been in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U360	Thank you. In fact, as I was referring to, a specific hospital exception applies on the basis of an individual order from a specialist doctor. This means that the specialist's own assessment, the professional responsibility, is that it is necessary for this particular patient to be prepared and used without a marketing authorisation in accordance with a hospital exception. This really applies to specific criteria: if other treatment options are exhausted and if the use of the medicinal product is medically justified, and as I pointed out earlier, if there are sufficient scientific data available on the medicinal product to suggest that the benefits outweigh the risks associated with the use of the medicinal product. It is not quite the case that medicinal products are used in any case, but there are still certain criteria that need to be met and for which such an additional filter is indeed a specialist doctor who assesses whether it is possible for this particular patient to use some form of treatment under the hospital exemption for his health and life's sake, which could improve his condition and health.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U361	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U362	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have pointed out here nicely how, according to this bill, it is possible to claim compensation for medication errors. Nice and nice. But even now it is actually possible to apply for it in the case of standard care, yet the expert committees that make the assessment usually say that the doctor has done everything in his power, followed the correct treatment plan and guidelines. People do not get help, even though they have been subjected to very clear medical errors. What's the difference now? How much can you believe that there will actually be an assessment of possible medication errors?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U363	Thank you. Once I'm going back to the patient insurance I dealt with earlier. If we are talking about a medical error, such as a health care provider or a health care professional's mistake, then the patient insurance system is really what we create as a basis for reimbursement. I very much hope that this will still be adopted during this parliamentary term. But as far as this regulation and this draft are concerned, here we are talking specifically about clinical trials and the use of a hospital dispenser medicine. The current law under the Health Insurance Act states that the insured person is not entitled to benefits if the need for benefits is due to participation in a research study, including a clinical trial. As a matter of fact, a person does not have that right legally. But now that right arises. I think that this is a very clear step forward and it makes sense that the patient has the possibility to apply for it from the health insurance fund and, in turn, the health insurance fund will later be able to demand it from the sponsor of the clinical trial. So in this view, things are going to get better at zero today. The law now says black in white that you have no right to ask. But from now on, that right will be human. In practice, then, show how many of these claims are actually presented and how many are satisfied. Surely this opportunity and the right must be introduced to the patient.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U364	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U365	Good manager! Good minister! Here [in the explanation letter] states: "The risk of undesirable effects is high if no possibilities are found from the state budget... " And here I read that if 43161 euros are found, the risk of impacts is no longer high. It's about a year. Is that the case, and is the financial cover that the Agency has been talking about, and which has previously gone to deaf ears, now that [the law] should enter into force on January 22, or when?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U366	Thank you. In fact, in the introduction, I also mentioned that there is a financial cover for the implementation of the regulation. That is EUR 172644, which is precisely EUR 43161 per year for the activities required by the Agency. In addition, a one-off cost of EUR 267200 for the development of the clinical trial database is foreseen for the Agency from the Structural Funds. So these risks will not materialise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U367	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U368	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm interested in the Committee on Ethics in Clinical Trials. I'll ask you about that. It is said here that this Ethics Committee is located at the University of Tartu. My question is whether there will be a separate committee or whether it will be the same as the Committee on Ethics in Human Studies at the University of Tartu. They are actually different, the work should be largely in English and is a very specific area for clinical trials. The Ethics Committee is already very burdened. Has it been mentioned how real implementation takes place, so that the university is not left with obligations that are not covered by funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U369	Thank you. A well-founded question. At the moment, there is really no plan to create a new committee or to reorganise work in any other way. The logic is that the Agency will include and take into account the assessment made by the Ethics Committee in the authorisation process. But, well, the coordinating unit and the responsible unit are the Agency, which is also the contact point for others. The workload of the Ethics Committee will depend on the number of applications for clinical trials in Estonia. In this sense, I agree with you that if we see that the volume of work is increasing, we need to find additional resources for this, because it certainly cannot be a job that is done in some way on the basis of lower standards than it has done so far. On the contrary, in some respects responsibility goes even wider under this specific regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U370	Thank you. No further questions. We can now give the floor to Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U371	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The amendment of the medicine law and the related amendment of other laws Act 413 was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs on 20 September. Just as here before you today, and also in the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft was thoroughly presented by the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik. The Commission was also interested in whether the draft concerns COVID-19 vaccines or medicines. It was also answered that the draft concerns the procedure for clinical trials and that if the pharmaceutical manufacturer chooses Estonia as the country of destination, it may also concern any medicinal products, including COVID-19 medicinal products. The Commission was also interested in the decision-making process for the pricing and introduction of advanced therapy medicinal products by hospital exemption. This was answered by the fact that the hospital exception can work in a situation where all authorised medicines have been used and none has been effective. In such a case, the research organisation or organiser will pay for the treatment, so that there will be no additional costs for the patient or the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. The Commission also examined how the methodology for the payment of the fee would change. It was answered that, for the European Commission, reducing red tape is an important objective of the regulation. According to the current system, the conductor of a clinical trial must pay a separate fee to both the Agency and the Ethics Committee, but according to the new regulation, the investigator only pays a fee to the Agency, which, according to the Partner Agreement, pays the work carried out by the Ethics Committee itself. In addition, Estonia's cost-based system has been compared to that of neighbouring countries and it has been found that our fees are significantly more favourable, which means that the amount of the fee could rather attract clinical trials of medicines to Estonia. At the same time, Estonia's small population does not support research. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda today, 27 October, the decision was consensual; to propose the completion of the first reading, to be consensual; and, thirdly, to appoint Siret Kotka as the representative of the lead committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U372	Thank you. There's no questions. In that case, we can go to the negotiations. I don't see the wish to negotiate. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 413 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U373	Today's eighth item: First reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Tanel Kiik, Minister for Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U374	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I now introduce to you draft law amending the Health Insurance Act 467. The aim of this draft is to improve access to dental care for the less-insured adult population. The most important objective of dental care benefits is to reduce health inequalities by also improving access to dental care for those who may otherwise be unable to obtain it for financial reasons. Currently, two compensation mechanisms are known to be in place. One is a 40-euro dental benefit for adults, and the other is at a higher rate, i.e. a 85-euro dental benefit with an own contribution of 15% for pensioners over 63 years of age, incapacity pensioners, old-age pensioners, partially or partially disabled persons, pregnant women, mothers of children under one year of age, as well as those who have an increased need for dental care due to their medical condition. According to this draft, we will extend the target group of persons receiving dental benefits at an increased threshold. This includes people who have registered in the unemployment fund as unemployed for the purposes of the Employment Services and Benefits Act. It's estimated at 60,000 now, but that number's gonna change. There have been times when he has been over 100,000, and there have been times when he has been considerably smaller. And secondly, the target group will be added to people who receive income support under the Social Welfare Act. More specifically, it is assessed whether the person has received income support during the two calendar months preceding the month in which he or she received dental care. For these, the target population is up to 1300 people. In fact, the range of beneficiaries of income support is, of course, wider, but as many of them overlap with those who are already unemployed, the other half does not increase so much [the beneficiaries]. The benefit at the increased threshold extends to the whole calendar year, regardless of whether or not a person will receive income support in the future. Under the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, data on unemployed persons are already available in the Health Insurance Fund's database, according to the Health Insurance Act. The Social Insurance Board will transmit the data to the Health Insurance Fund according to the Health Insurance Act and the Basic Regulation of the Social Services and Benefits Data Register. The data exchange takes place through the X-Road of data exchange every time you inherit dental care, which means that the system is relatively patient-friendly. The proposed amendments were approved by the Government Office on 17 June 2021. Later, we also tabled a corresponding bill, for which we certainly hope the support of Parliament as well. The additional cost of implementing the proposed changes will be estimated at EUR 1 million for the Health Insurance Fund next year, and in future years, depending, of course, on the unemployment rate. These costs have now been taken into account in the preparation of the Health Insurance Fund's budget. The proposed date of entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2022. The background is so much that we certainly want to move forward in the future with increased dental benefits and a certain degree of flexibility. Ensuring access to dental care is, of course, one of the places where the Estonian health care system needs extra money, or rather, Estonian patients need extra money, and Estonian people receive extra money. I very much hope that in the coming years it will also be possible to find more of this through budget requests so that the dental health of Estonian people improves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U375	Thank you. Questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U376	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! First of all, I think it's the right bill. But when I read one paragraph that is being amended, it actually creates a false understanding outside this house and for those who have never been before in the Committee on Social Affairs and do not know what this health insurance law is. In fact, only a few lines are being changed, but the entire paragraph is being written, the one that used to be, and then a little bit more. In fact, if a correction is made, the line is drawn down on the lines that are added to the list so that there is no misunderstanding, as if pensioners or pregnant women or parents of a child up to one year of age had not previously received this benefit. They've got it. Just two areas, I understand, coming up here. They are unemployed and beneficiaries of income support. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U377	Yeah, that's right. So I actually read it out: those target groups that are already receiving, and those two target groups that are being added to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U378	No further questions. Thank you. The co-rapporteur is Marika Tuus-Laul, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U379	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Draft 467 was discussed in the Commission on 18 October. First, Minister Kiik gave an overview of the bill, as you have just heard in this Chamber. I wouldn't say it again. However, I would like to say that he stressed that the draft will make dental care benefits more accessible to groups at risk and that the draft will also mean extending more compensation to beneficiaries of income support and to the unemployed. Members of the Commission asked how many ordinary, or EUR 40, users of dental care benefits we have, and would it not be right if only the risk groups were to receive this benefit. The Minister replied that last year, some 150,000 people and some 100,000 people had received an increased threshold for dental care. The swing explained that if the compensation were to disappear, the number of users of dental care would probably fall. More questions were asked about the number of dental care providers who have signed a contract with the health insurance fund. The Minister replied that during the COVID crisis, the circle of both the beneficiaries of the compensation and the service providers had expanded. We currently have 406 such service providers all over Estonia. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, to appoint a speaker as the representative of the commission and to close the first reading. All these decisions were consensual. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be 10 working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U380	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U381	Good manager! Good Marika! It's good to see you defending the bill. Was it also discussed in the Commission that, if you look at the dental benefit as a whole, as is the case today, for example, in the case of prostheses, money can be used for three years? For three years, you can collect this money and then use it all at once. I think most of us have been to the dentist [and knows] that for this EUR 85 the mouth will be opened and the teeth will be checked. But if you want to do the treatment, it's definitely gonna take more than that. Can't we also discuss the transfer of this money to the next year or to the next year, as is the case with dentures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U382	Thank you. This issue was dealt with very briefly, and the Minister only mentioned that we will be able to use EUR 260 for prosthetic compensation in three years. There was no mention that it would pass [to the next year] and that teeth could be healed for it. There's always been talk about it before, as you know, even when you were the chairman, and even then it didn't seem to be any more reflected that we would have expanded it. However, the Minister also said that, rather than exactly what you asked for, that if the dental benefit, even what is now, doubled or even extended the period of compensation, the additional cost would be estimated at approximately 10 to 15 million. There's no money right now. So far, it's going to take a little over a million to expand the compensation. But he insisted, as is the case now in this Chamber, that in the future we will certainly try to [find more money].
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U383	Thank you. No further questions. Now we can open negotiations and Siret Kotka has expressed his wish. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U384	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The fundamental value of Estonian health insurance, the main objective of solidarity, is to ensure that people have access to the necessary health services regardless of their economic situation and the size of their income. The analysis of the World Health Organization's own contribution policy shows that, despite the fundamental values of health insurance, the cost of treatment paid by Estonian people is high and the risk of poverty due to high medical costs is also very high. Such inequalities in health and the use of healthcare due to the limited financial income of people are unfair. The role of the state is to look through policies for ways of reducing people's own participation in health care and protecting people from high costs and poverty. I am pleased that this draft extension of the increased threshold for dental benefits allows this. Oral health care is very important. It is part of the overall health condition of a person and we know that oral health can also affect the functioning of other organ systems. Oral diseases can cause both local and aesthetic problems, which in turn affect a person's quality of life. According to a study carried out by Kantar Emor in 2020, 58% of the population aged 15 years and older attended dental examinations during the last 12 months. This is 6% less than in 2018. Although the main reason for not attending the dentist's office was the mention of a good enough condition for the teeth, 38% of it was said, economic reasons continue to play an important role. For 32% of respondents, the economic situation is the main reason for less than once a year visits to dentists. According to the survey, the average number of people aged 35 to 49 with lower incomes (the lower income is those who receive up to EUR 500 per family member per month) and those who have children under 18 years of age are not visited by a dentist for economic reasons. We know that from 1 January 2018, all adult insured persons receive EUR 40 per year of dental care benefit. The benefit applies to essential dental care services and can be used in dental care establishments that have concluded a contract with a health insurance fund throughout Estonia. The patient's own contribution for the compensation of EUR 40 is 50%. Today it is possible to receive a higher rate of 85 euros per year in dental care benefits for pensioners over 63 years of age, disability pensioners, old-age pensioners, people with partial or lack of working capacity, pregnant women, mothers of children under one year of age, and people who have an increased need for dental care due to their medical condition. It is gratifying that, on 1 January 2022, these target groups will also be accompanied by registered unemployed persons and beneficiaries of income support, which are estimated to be around 55000 people. This gives these people the possibility to use dental benefits of up to EUR 85 per year with a mandatory own contribution of up to 15%, i.e. EUR 15. This change will help to improve access to dental care for the less-insured adult population. Based on various studies, low-income households and unemployed are precisely those groups that are currently... I'd like a few more minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U385	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U386	...for high costs, leaving dental care out of service. Unfortunately, as a result, the oral health and hygiene of these target groups is worse, which could be improved by dental visits. It is worth noting that if a person belongs to a target group of beneficiaries of an increased level of benefit, he or she will receive an increased level of benefit during the calendar year, regardless of whether he or she will receive income support in the future. Looking ahead, the priority is to look for ways to protect the population even more effectively against high medical costs and to make dental care more accessible in a targeted way to those for whom it is currently not available for financial reasons. Extending the range of beneficiaries of dental benefits to registered unemployed persons and people receiving income support at the increased threshold is certainly the right step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U387	Thank you very much. There is no further wish for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 467 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 10 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U388	Today's ninth item on the agenda is the first reading of draft law 420 amending the Law on study grants and student loans and related other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Ms Liina Kersna, Minister for Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U389	Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending study grants and student loans and related other laws. The main focus of this draft is on changes in doctoral studies, with which we wish to increase the attractiveness of doctoral studies, make it more efficient to complete the study and thus ensure the post-growth of researchers both in the academic world and in Estonian society as a whole. In addition to doctoral studies, there are also changes to the draft regarding student loans and needs-based study support. We prepared the doctoral reform in close cooperation with our good partners since the second half of 2019. Universities, research and development institutions, entrepreneurs, other ministries and students were involved in this multi-annual work from the outset. With the draft, we want to reform doctoral studies so that most doctoral students are guaranteed the position of a junior researcher in universities, in a regularly evaluable research and development institution, or have a contract of employment in a non-university institution in the field of their doctoral thesis. In other words, doctoral students would be employees of research work with their employer. The draft will redesign the working conditions and environment of doctoral students, which will make it possible to fix and pay more clearly the tasks related to doctoral studies and thus increase the effectiveness of doctoral studies. Changes in doctoral studies are essential. The number of doctoral graduates remains low and clearly insufficient to change the structure of the economy and meet the needs of society. Our goal was that in 2020 300 doctoral degrees would be obtained in Estonia during the academic year, but at best the number of PhD graduates exceeded just 250 in 2017, after which it has fallen again. This means that the effectiveness of doctoral studies is low and current graduates are not enough to ensure the post-growth of top specialists with a doctoral degree. This, in turn, hampers the further development of a knowledge-based society. This situation has been brought about by the overemployment of doctoral students in other work not related to their research, both at the university and outside the university. Other work is often carried out on a full-time basis, which does not allow sufficient commitment to research. The current doctoral allowance does not ensure sufficient maintenance to allow full-time commitment to the doctoral thesis. The reform of doctoral studies is an important part of the new R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship development agenda. We must continue to increase the efficiency and attractiveness of doctoral studies, including by supporting doctoral students to take up the position of junior researcher, which gives them social guarantees and guarantees their income. We must also continue to support doctoral studies on knowledge transfer, as the need for top specialists is also outside the academic sector. It is important to change the rhetoric so far, and doctoral students should be treated in the future, not as students, but as starting researchers, whose main work is doctoral studies and doctoral preparation, and who are paid for their work. But doctoral studies are not the only area covered by this bill. Another important area is the planned changes in student loan conditions. The number of student borrowers has been falling steadily since 2009, which shows that the current system may no longer meet the needs of students. Student borrowing is unreasonable in today's situation and the requirement for two guarantors to apply for student loans is unduly strict. According to the bill before you, the maximum interest rate should be one guarantor and six months Euribor +3% when applying for student loans. To a limited extent, we also change the basis for receiving needs-based learning support. Taking into account the principle laid down in the Aliens Act, according to which, when a temporary residence permit is granted in Estonia, sufficient legal income is required to enable him or her to cope with his or her living in Estonia, the conditions are changed so that the foreign student staying in Estonia with a temporary residence permit granted for study will no longer be entitled to need-based education allowance, as we assume that he or she has confirmed that he or she will be able to cope financially. The draft proposal proposes the start of a new academic year, i.e. 2022/2023, with a gradual transition to a new concept of doctoral studies up to 2026. The University of Tartu has already sent you a proposal that this law should enter into force not on 1 September, but at the beginning of August. By the author of the draft law, I fully support this amendment in order to implement it from 1 August next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U390	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U391	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the student loan part of this bill. It is very, very positive that, according to this amendment to the law, the guarantors will no longer have to be two but one. But now, if you look at this loan percentage and the interest rate at the small amount of student loans offered, this product is not very attractive for banks to offer students. Can any changes in this matter be foreseen? Because if it's reduced, it could be a little critical of this law amendment, that maybe it's kind of gone halfway. One guarantor is a good compromise, but in fact, a student loan in itself is not a very tempting offer if you add interest to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U392	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the current system of student loans does not seem attractive. If we look at the data, we will see that, for example, 2014/2015. 9% of students took student loans in the academic year and today there are only 4% of students, and 1742 students have taken student loans. We can take 2,500 euros in student loans in one year, the amount is small. Our aim was to make the system more flexible, and this interest rate, which is in this law, is the maximum rate. When negotiating with banks, a lower interest rate may be offered, and I believe that this will be done under open market conditions. But again, also here, this bill is now in Riigikogu proceedings. If you have any better suggestions than those in this bill, they're welcome. Our goal is for students who need support for their studies through student loans to receive it under the most flexible and favourable conditions possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U393	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U394	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. If I get it right now, doctoral students will be of three types according to the new law: one is junior researchers at the university and they will be paid from the university; the other will be active at companies, institutions, organisations and paid from there; and the third is those who are not at work at the university and their work is not related to the subject of doctoral studies, but the employer still wants them to contribute 100% to their basic work assignments, not to doctoral studies. The question is whether and what kind of support the country will receive from these third-type doctoral students. Will they be deprived of all grants, scholarships and other opportunities because they probably work anyway, but maybe they won't, so let them see how they can handle their studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U395	Thank you. Indeed, this third group of doctoral students are so-called doctoral students who are not involved in an employment contract [university]. Actually, it's kind of a lifelong study-related PhD. A person has reached a position in his standard of living and in his workplace that he would like to upgrade, do so in a doctoral degree, but he does not need a special job to complete a doctoral degree. It's his choice. Our country wants us to have more PhD students first, and secondly, to complete their PhD studies. Right now, we've got 30% of PhD students graduating with a nominal term, that's a very small number. Not to mention that there are not as many as we have set ourselves for years: 300. But if you ask me what kind of support these doctoral students will get, they will receive free higher education, they will receive free very good doctoral studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U396	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U397	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We're talking about PhD students and junior scientists, everything else and their fees. But is there somewhere in this bill [mentioned] that supervisors have a very large role to play? I understand that the role of supervisors is growing every day, but their money doesn't grow. Has this side of the law been touched or not? At least I don't count it. I know that at some point there might be a problem that there are those who want to study as a doctorate. But do we find any mentors for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U398	Thank you. That's a very good point. Having discussed this draft with the Research Policy Commission, the Scientific and Development Council, the Rectors, one of the real difficulties in this draft is that it specifically highlights doctoral candidates in the higher education and research system, but we really need them. As I said, we have a systemic problem that there are few doctoral students and that they do not stop at the right time. But at the same time, there may be a situation where the supervisor of a particular doctoral student receives less pay than the doctoral student himself, with the support of this doctoral grant, such as some co-professor. Here, this problem itself refers to the problem of underfunding higher education in general. This is what we need to do in order to have more resources in higher education so that fellow professors, professors and supervisors are also paid higher. That's a problem. I am pleased that the Riigikogu has also taken the initiative, and at the beginning of December, the topic of funding higher education is discussed in the Riigikogu Chamber as a matter of national importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U399	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U400	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you for presenting [the draft]. My concern right now is about student benefits. The Cultural Commission received a question from the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training about whether it would be possible to make it easier to grant study grants. This is very bureaucratic right now. Basically, vocational training institutions, I understand, do not want to take it all year round and set firm deadlines, but they would like to set the amount of support themselves and untie it from making a ranking. This means that they would like to have the opportunity, from the very beginning, to award these grants in order to make [vocational training] more attractive. However, students have expressed concerns that these same grants are linked to family income. They're like two questions in different directions, but what kind of options do you see? One [option] seems to be simply to simplify [the system] bureaucratically, so that the application submitted by the student is not necessary, but can be dealt with by the authorities themselves. The second question is whether the linking of support with family income is certainly obligative. Our students are very independent and often already on their wallets.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U401	Thank you for your question. Of course, if we can make the system less bureaucratic and more flexible, then I will support it and I will certainly think along. For example, there is also a need-based special support that schools can pay in case something unexpected happens in the student's or student's life, and it can also support them. Indeed, today, until the age of 24, the student will be treated as a member of the family, while the 25-year-old students will be treated as separate households. At the moment, we have agreed that until the age of 24, the student is very strongly associated with his family. We can start a debate on whether we should change this long-term practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U402	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U403	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about an article written by Karl Lembit Laane, the Philosophy Magistrant of the University of Tartu. His article appeared in the Eesti Päevaleht a few days ago and he says that changes in student loans are really not bad in nature, but their influence tends to be negligible. It points out that the reform does not at all concern the real problem of the system of social guarantees for students, education grants. I quote, he says: "Like the current student loans, they are unreasonablely low and absurdly inaccessible. "And again, the same calculation of the same distribution, where a 24-year-old student is counted against his family. He points out that according to 2016 data, about one fifth of students received needs-based education support. Well, it was really five years ago, but that data is public. What would you say to him and perhaps to the many other students who are watching us today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U404	Thank you. As regards the terms and conditions of student loans, I know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has tried to negotiate with banks on this issue. I think this is one of the places where the Riigikogu could take the initiative and see if we can make the situation more favourable to students within the framework of this bill. I will certainly support the conclusion of these agreements with the banks. This is certainly not behind the resistance of the Ministry of Education and Research. Looking at needs-based grants, around 6,000 students receive needs-based learning support, and about 500 of them come from third countries. But yes, I understand that both funding for higher education and grants have been at the same level for years. I'm sure there's room for improvement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U405	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Now, if I understand correctly, the salary of a junior researcher working at the university is not fixed by law. This amount will depend on the contract of employment concluded between the junior researcher and the university, and it will be directly linked to an administrative contract concluded by the State with the university, that what amounts will come there once in a while, once in a while, right? Hopefully, this 1% of GDP will not go away, but will grow. But there's one thing that's gotten me mixed up. Does the state allocate this money to the university for four years, which is the nominal period, or for eight years, which is the maximum nominal period? We understand from the draft that this nominal period of study can also be extended under certain conditions. When I read the Commission's protocol, which I will soon report, the answer was a little confusing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U407	Thank you. Yes, indeed, our aim is for the junior researcher to receive a salary at least comparable to the average wage in the country. This is our ambition and it has also been the basis for the calculations when we have calculated how much this support will cost the state. Indeed, the Ministry of Education and Research accounts for 1% of GDP, which is focused on R &amp; D. The terms and conditions are agreed in management contracts and this money goes to the junior researcher's salary support fund. The question now is that for several years these administrative contracts will be concluded. We are currently in the process of preparing administrative contracts, because at the beginning of next year they will end and will have to be new ones. Here, proposals have been made that these agreements should be, on the contrary, rather shorter-term, not only four-year-olds, but, for example, two-year-olds. As conditions change, these positions would not have been entered into contracts for such a [long-term] period. But surely, the agreement can make an undertaking that the State will pay this fee for a certain period of time. It is true that four years is a nominal period, but state support is limited to a maximum of eight years, with certain exceptions, such as parental leave, which extends it, and also increases that time in military or substitute service.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U408	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U409	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It has been pointed out that one of Estonia's biggest problems is that doctoral studies are not sufficiently linked to our business needs, innovation is not enough and so on. At the same time, we know that the whole scientific world is moving in the direction that nano- and micro-degrees are coming and that postgraduate studies are becoming smaller, shorter cycles. Does this bill in any way solve this side, looking at the future? Because when we talk about research and development, we must inevitably talk about this peak, or doctoral studies, of linking it to the needs of society, precisely in the direction of entrepreneurship, in order to create innovation and change in society. I don't think this core has anything to do with student loan mathematics, although maybe there's a need for change. But this is the [business] side of the bill, is it in any way related to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U410	Thank you. A very important question. Indeed, if we look at Estonia in international comparison, for example, we are doing well in that we have now been able to meet the promise in recent years that as a public sector we will contribute 1% of GDP to R &amp; D. But in Europe it is generally agreed that at least 3% should be devoted to R &amp; D, of which 2% should come from the private sector. We have a small contribution from the private sector and our aim is to increase the contribution from the private sector. What are we gonna do about it? To this end, it was agreed that 1% of GDP will go to R &amp; D and 40% of the additional money will come to the Ministry of Education and Research, 40% to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and 20% to the various ministries for cross-cutting research. That is why it was agreed that the money would be distributed equally by 40% and 40%, in order to deal systematically so that our private companies would be better able to order R &amp; D and be better able to carry out their own R &amp; D activities. To this end, we have also developed a PhD degree in knowledge transfer, which is one of three forms of doctoral studies. This doctoral thesis on knowledge transfer can also be supported separately from European Union funds. It is very important that doctoral students do the necessary doctoral thesis in companies, as well as in the public sector, on the spot for a particular company or institution. To this end, you can enter into a tripartite contract: a doctoral student, a university and a company or an organisation where the doctoral studies are conducted. This is very important and this draft will also contribute to this, in addition to the financing model.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U411	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U412	Good manager! Good minister! My question has two sides. One thing is that we were talking about funding doctoral students, that's four years, if I get it right, that funding. Is it the same system as in higher education that you have to collect a certain number of points to get that money? At this point, it seems like I'm going away for four years, and once I get the money, I'm gonna quit, and I don't think I'm gonna have to pay it back. And the other half is that I've noticed that a lot of my colleagues are worried that they can't even go to a master's degree [do] because they're already over 50 years old, let alone a doctorate. The university says there's nothing to do with people this old. But I think in today's condition...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U413	Don't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U414	I have an elder who received such an answer practically a month ago. He's at 50. Are there age limits? And the other thing is, is it that I've been going to doctoral studies for four years and getting the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U415	Thank you. First of all, I really want to hope that there is no such restriction in any university. I don't know, my mom's studying for a master's degree and she's much older than 50 years old. That's a very nice tendency. We can see that lifelong learning is a reality, that there are increasingly older people in universities, and that is extremely welcome and wonderful. But as far as the distribution of money is concerned, the state will allocate money to the junior researcher's payroll and the doctoral student will enter into a contract with the university and this agreement will agree exactly on the conditions under which the money will be used and what the salary will be. The state has said that if the nominal period is generally three or four years in different doctoral studies, no four years, it can be used for a maximum of eight years. There are certain differences, as I said, in parental leave and in military service or in substitute service, which will be added to this eight-year period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U416	Minister, there are no further questions for you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Eduard Odinets, member of the Committee on Culture. Let's just keep going as fast as we can from here. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U417	Same pace? I understand I have 20 minutes. Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to introduce to you what has taken place around Bill 420 in the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture considered the various aspects of the draft at its two meetings: on 11 October and 12 October, we took procedural decisions. Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Science Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, Katrin Pihor, and Allan Padar, Head of Higher Education, participated in the substantive discussion of the draft. They were in addition to the members of the Commission. As usual, the draft procedure or discussion began with a presentation by the Minister. The same concerns that the Minister presented here today were also made known to the members of the Commission at the Commission meeting, and the solution to these concerns is that young people entering doctoral studies are formalised as junior researchers and receive an average salary and also social protection, as the Minister said here today. In addition, it is important that we have a doctoral student of knowledge transfer in Estonia, where doctoral students can do research with their employer. And, of course, there was talk about making student loan terms more flexible, and the Minister spoke about all this. Allan Padar mentioned that the real final objective of this draft is to make doctoral studies significantly more effective, to increase the speed of doctoral studies and to increase the proportion of graduates. A number of questions followed from the Members of the Commission. Aadu Must, chairman of the committee, said that the draft is sympathetic, but the qualifications of the doctoral student, the content of doctoral studies must also be dealt with, as there are different concepts. At the meeting of the Commission, Eduard Odines, or I, wanted the Minister to clarify whether the third form of doctoral studies, the so-called PhD student, would retain the state's support. Allan Padar replied that according to the draft doctoral student who is not at work at the university and who does not do research with his employer, no support would be maintained. Katrin Pihor expressed his hope that most doctoral studies will still be conducted at a university or research institution or at a doctoral degree in knowledge transfer. The third format of doctoral studies, or student-doctoral student, has been retained as a result of discussions with universities, because there are people in Estonia who have earned enough capital, want to take time off and go to doctoral studies for self-development, mentioned Katrin Pihor. According to Katrin Pihor, these third-type students-doctoral students do not wish to be involved in contract doctoral studies. It is therefore possible to carry out a more liberal form of doctoral studies in agreement with the university, and the specific conditions will be agreed on in the individual study plan. I also studied whether the student can apply for a review of the terms and conditions of the student loan as they are more favourable under the new system than the current one. Allan Padar replied that existing agreements could be amended by bilateral agreement. Jaak Valge, a member of the Commission, expressed concern that research in Estonia is becoming increasingly institutional-centred and, in this context, the independence of science is not sufficient. White asked whether the change, which makes the status of doctoral students even more institutional, did not jeopardise the independence of doctoral students and academic freedom. Katrin Pihor thought that, in fact, a review of the principles of the concept of research funding was initiated under the leadership of the Estonian Research Council, and one topic also concerns grants and whether they should necessarily be linked to positively evaluable research institutions. There are no results yet. But when it comes to stronger institutionalisation, this draft does not change. According to the draft, it is rather a desire to see more research emerging as a result of the transfer of knowledge. It will also provide an opportunity to respond better to society's expectations and needs. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits asked how much one doctoral student's income would improve with this bill. Minister Liina Kersna replied that the junior researcher's allowance was the average salary for the period of time, which was estimated at 13.5 million for the previous year. At the moment, the doctoral student's scholarship is over 600 euros, so it is a significant increase in the student's income. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits clarified the possibility of academic leave which the draft does not provide for the doctoral student. The draft includes cases where studies can be extended but there is no possibility to extend studies for health reasons. In addition, Allan Padar replied that all different forms of study leave should be included in the eight-year study period and that, since the doctoral student is in an employment relationship, sick leave is also guaranteed. In addition, according to the new draft, the possibility of extracurricular training will remain. The pad said that when you look at the statistics, the winners of academic leave are very often those people who interrupt their studies. Liina Kersna added that the state will pay her doctoral student for only four years, i.e. a nominal period of study. But today we heard here that the minister specified his response, which was in the committee meeting. Signe Kivi asked or was interested in the number of people with a doctorate at the Ministry of Education and Research. The minister replied that he couldn't say the exact number, but two of his three advisors have a doctorate. Margit Sutrop pointed out that there are certainly cases where the supervisor does not have enough time for the doctoral student, but the most important thing is the motivation of the doctoral student himself. Sutrop asked what the bill would solve, whether the creation of an incentive salary or the change of status. Margit Sutrop also studied, which is still the motivation to increase the doctoral motivation even more. The minister replied that paying the salary would certainly motivate the doctoral studies to be stopped more quickly. However, the long-term impact of this reform could still be that companies would be more able to value and pay more employees with a doctorate. Katrin Pihor added that the nature of the employment relationship is also important in addition to remuneration, as it assumes obligations in the contract of employment that must be fulfilled. It is also an important factor in stimulating the demand side. For example, the applied research programme supports applied research in enterprises and should bring more doctoral students to companies. Allan Padar explained that motivation is also linked to what the doctoral student does during his doctoral thesis, perhaps how much the university makes the doctoral student do other tasks. During the drafting of the draft, it was discussed that it was somehow necessary to set a limit on the volume of tasks not related to the doctoral thesis. It was found that this was not a question of this draft, but that universities could agree on a quality contract for doctoral studies, for example, within these limits. Margit Sutrop's news from the proposals of the University of Tartu, including about the earlier entry into force of the draft. And as the Minister mentioned here today on the floor, these proposals will be analysed and, if possible, taken into account. Margit Sutrop was concerned about junior scientists with whom a contract had been concluded before the entry into force of this law. They shall be subject to the law in force at the time of the conclusion of the contract of employment. Their contracts can become permanent, which could be a major problem for universities. According to Margit Sutrop, only redundancy or dismissal could be used to release the junior researcher, which makes no sense, and he asked for these legal provisions to be reviewed. Margit Sutrop also asked that the Higher Education Act should include basic psychologists in the framework requirements for the professional year. Ms Kersna said that all these proposals would be analysed. Aadu Black was concerned that universities were undergoing a so-called high school process. There's a lot of talk about a doctorate devaluation. He asked the Minister for his position on the need and possibility to introduce different levels of doctoral studies. The Minister replied that the draft had been discussed in the Committee on Research Policy, the R &amp; D Council. Universities have not taken the initiative to undertake doctoral studies of different levels. It has been said that the conditions for completing doctoral studies could be reviewed, which in Estonia, unlike many other countries, are mostly related to articles. Aadu Black also examined the doctoral student's own responsibility, i.e. possible sanctions. Katrin Pihor explained that it was important to find a balance point. If you make claims too harsh, people don't come to doctoral studies. The whole approach is based on the fact that doctoral studies are an agreement between the employer and the employee. Both parties are obliged to do something. Liina Kersna added that autonomous universities can also impose sanctions in the agreement. This cannot be established by law. Heidy Purga referred to the current support of doctoral students, which is not competitive, and asked how many other contractual obligations could be an obstacle to a nominal termination or termination of studies. Katrin Pihor replied that this issue needed to be discussed with universities. In the case of doctoral studies on the transfer of knowledge, the tripartite agreement provides an opportunity for the employer to also undertake to give the doctoral student time to do the doctoral thesis. According to Katrin Pihor, the employer's responsibility has been implemented by many countries. I asked, with regard to the Employment Contracts Act, I was concerned that many of the provisions in this law relate to the employment contract and its regulations and why we regulate these matters here, not the Employment Contracts Act. I also examined where the amount of the doctoral student's salary is fixed as the average salary in Estonia, which was introduced by the Minister at the beginning. Allan Padar replied that the average salary was not legally fixed and was based on the amount and agreement fixed in the administrative contract. The fixing of a specific amount may not be a good solution for sectoral specificities. For example, some areas require more than average pay, and [in some areas] universities can raise money from their own resources. This means that the real salary of a doctoral student can be very different in a university. There was no answer to the question of the contract of employment. Liina Kersna added that such a solution was proposed on the assumption that 1% of GDP would still go into R &amp; D, and at the moment the amount of doctoral student support is directly linked to it. If it's decided to change, there's just no money. Margit Sutrop referred to a situation that has already sounded in this Chamber today that most researchers receive a salary of the same magnitude or even lower than doctoral candidates. And a reduction in the volume of studies may give the doctoral student the opportunity to devote more to their work, but on the other hand, the question arises as to how a high-quality doctoral thesis will be born if the doctoral thesis comes with a lack of knowledge due to the reduction in the volume of the studies. Margit Sutrop expressed his hope that he would also review the admission requirements for doctoral studies. Sutrop also referred to unfilled doctoral studies where foreigners enter. He considered it important to think about a motivational package that would motivate them to remain in the Estonian labour market. That concludes this debate in the Commission and, as I said at the beginning, the Commission decided at its next sitting to close the first reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U418	Good waitress, thank you very much. I can really see that there are no questions. Thank you. I'm sorry! I'm sorry! Do you have a question or not? Question? Got it. Thank you. Sorry, waitress! A little mess on my part. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, Margit Sutropi. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U419	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I would say that today is actually the day that both scientists and doctoral students have been waiting for a very long time. I think that with this bill, which gives us the possibility, in particular, to doctoral students to start working in very different ways, it has been created, on the one hand, that the flexibility they want is that they can start their doctoral thesis with a contract of employment, a junior researcher. This is also possible now, but it has been financed by the ASTRA programme with the support of the Social Fund, and it has not allowed quite such employment contracts to be awarded, so that the main work would be to write a doctoral thesis. This could change from the new year of study. Similarly, doctoral students will have a flexible opportunity to continue as a student in doctoral studies and to do this alongside the work, because it is possible that they are already in a well-paid job and may not even want to sign a contract with less pay, such as our judges or people working in some kind of well-paid private business job. We are actually limiting the fact that students take on a lot of different responsibilities, and later it is unhappy that they cannot stop at the right time, and even more unhappy are then universities and their tutors. There's still a chance to be an external doctoral student. It is completely novel to have been appointed by the Minister as a doctoral student of knowledge transfer, which was originally intended only as a doctoral student of entrepreneurship, but it is now possible to apply it to other sectors as well. I would say that this is also a day of celebration because very many parties have worked hard to conclude the same scientific agreement. Here too, in the Riigikogu, the parties who signed the science agreement in December 2018 thought about realising such an opportunity. All parties, except the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, then joined this agreement. And indeed, there is now a chance that everything will go for the better. Perhaps I would stress only one such really as a worrying question, which has already been heard here, my own speeches were also quoted in the Committee on Culture. I think we have two very serious concerns. One is that with this increasing money now we are creating an opportunity for doctoral students to devote themselves more to their work. EUR 1600, if this were the average salary coming next year, it would certainly be motivating. Social guarantees are motivating. But we cannot in any way hope that the doctoral student would like to stop if, after graduation, his life at least at academic workplaces becomes insecure and deteriorates because the salary he is going to receive after graduation is not motivating. Or even just by familiarizing yourself with a project-based world, the doctoral student knows that he doesn't really want to pursue this career. In this sense, it is one of the first steps that have been taken, but the next step is the money that goes into higher education and then into science, which actually motivates the organization and the creation of guarantees so that researchers and higher education can carry out their work in a sustainable manner. The next concern is that the doctorate also needs to be more valued in society. I think it is true that, as the Minister said, this doctoral or entrepreneurial doctoral thesis on knowledge transfer could make the private sector think that they would like to take more doctoral students, hopefully to invest more in research and development in their companies, and to employ those who have a doctoral degree later. We very much hope that those doctoral students who go into business are like ambassadors who open this door. They actually need to show the same great strength in research and innovation, and show entrepreneurship that their development is necessary. It doesn't happen by itself, and they can get into a lot of trouble alone out there. I think we need to create a great deal of support and protection for them, and perhaps through networks of companies that invest more in research and development, we can create this support. But secondly, there is the public sector, which should actually appreciate that in all very important occupations people have a doctorate, because otherwise there is no point in learning. You must have some kind of motivation. I remember that while I was living in Germany, my children's school teachers, all the better teachers in high school, with a doctorate. The editors of all magazines, in very [important] occupations as well as in state offices, also had a doctorate. We are still a long way from this in Estonia, and I think we need to work on this. Then we can hope that the people of Estonia will take up doctoral studies, work hard to learn for four years, and later it will be motivated to finish well and in time. So we still have a few steps to take. But I think we've made it better. However, I also very much hope that these same doctoral students with a contract of employment will feel more of this responsibility, because as an employee they are more valued, but they must also understand that they must contribute in return. I would never want our supervisors to have the situation that I saw with my colleague years ago when he had to go [understand] because the university asked why the supervisors had not done enough work, we had a contract with the supervisors for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, now the professor emeritus had to go knocking on the doctoral student's door because it had still not submitted a job by the end of the fourth year and was not allowed through the door. The laundry was hanging outside, and the neighbors said he was home, but he didn't open his door. There was no way either the supervisor of the doctoral thesis or the university could recover the money that he had received as a doctoral scholarship. I very much hope that universities will have the opportunity, through a contract of employment, to demand more from students and then society will have recovered this huge investment. Thank you and leave us all to enforce this fine new reform! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U420	Thank you very much, thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Jaak Valge. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U421	Dear listeners, I'm trying to make a relatively shorter call. In general, the EKRE is pleased with the direction of this draft, because we have always argued that one of the biggest problems of our higher education education is that it does not meet the needs of Estonian society. This draft seeks to ensure financial stability for doctoral students and to make doctoral studies more close to life, something that could improve the situation. It is now a little difficult to predict whether this will lead to any other problems, but in any case, the initiators and assemblers seem to have good will. One negative trend that may arise or perhaps deepen is, indeed, that research becomes too institutionally focused. This has actually taken place in Estonia already in the last few decades, and it threatens, as it deepens, the independence of science and it may be expected that the academic independence of doctoral students will also decline somewhat. Unfortunately, the draft does not solve the second basic problem of higher education, which is the decline in the quality of our studies. Acquiring a doctorate in itself, if you lower the quality of this degree, will in no way improve society or develop our economy. We do not really need people with a formal doctorate, who we could easily produce more if we were to lower the requirements further. We still need high-level professionals who are necessary for Estonian society and, if necessary, they are happy and well paid. I do not think we will solve this problem either by calling for an academic degree in the public service. We do not have proper quality control in Estonia. But I don't know any faculty members who would seriously dare say that in the last few decades, the level of knowledge of graduates has not fallen sharply. I don't know anyone. It is also worthwhile to be satisfied with the direction of the draft act because the need-based education allowance for foreign students or foreign students from third countries will be stopped. The fact that it has been paid so far is, to put it mildly, incomprehensible. And the proportion of students from third countries who have received needs-based education support has been higher than the number, but the proportion has been higher than the proportion for Estonian students. Now it takes at least one part of those who have actually used Estonia simply to improve their economic well-being or to gradually organise their progress towards the richest countries of the European Union, to dismantle the motive for coming to Estonia, and perhaps we will get better foreign students. Certainly, the fact that we have grown rapidly from third countries has played a role in foreign students, rather the same ones whose first motive for coming to Estonia is not to study at some Estonian universities. We basically have nothing against the arrival of highly qualified people in Estonia. On the contrary, we are all in favour of this. However, the EKRE does not accept uncontrolled immigration under any sign. All right, let's go. In fact, this small change will in no way solve the third major problem of our higher education education education, which is the English language of universities. I stress that the number or proportion of foreign students studying in English does not in any way define university level. The University of Helsinki has twice as many foreign students as the University of Tartu, but the place in the world university ranking is more than twice as high. And foreign students... One minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U422	Please, one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U423	... a high proportion does not have to mean a high proportion of English-language learning. For example, the leaders of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, who recently attended the meeting of the Committee on Culture, noted that the training of one doctoral student, I would remind you that foreign doctoral students are exempt from the tuition fee, and the Estonian taxpayer receives a cost of 100,000 euros in the middle, while the organisation of an intensive course of Estonian language to enable them to conduct their studies in Estonian, 4000 euros. It would also contribute to the retention of high-level professionals who have obtained their doctorate in Estonia, because otherwise our taxpayers' money has gone empty. So, in the end, we are satisfied with the direction of the draft, but these three main problems remain to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U424	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by the Social Democratic Party Group Eduard Odinets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Social Democrats are also satisfied with the direction taken in this draft and we welcome the reform of doctoral studies and these changes. But we, too, would like to talk about some of the problems and bottlenecks that I would like to emphasise, and perhaps this bill can also solve in some way. The contents of the draft. I call on both the Commission and the Ministry to think about the people who are in this so-called third form of doctoral studies. It's gonna sound like it's kind of like a lifestyle doctoral degree. You're well-off, there's a job, so there's money, and you can learn with your own resources. The minister nicely said you'll get a free, good education by the state. I think that, in view of the general objective that doctoral students would have more and high-quality doctoral studies, we should not forget any doctoral student. When we talk about the third type of people who do it alongside their main work, their children and family, and spend considerable amounts on doctoral studies, teaching literature, study trips and other such things, this is extremely important for them. Without any state support at all, I do not believe that this is a good move. Go on. Fortress. I understand that a contract of employment will be concluded with the university, but is this exactly what is fixed for the entire period, is this amount being indexed, is this amount going to depend on the wishes of the state, what amount will it put into the management contract? The Committee on Culture and I think that the entire Riigikogu has been approached by the University of Tartu in several letters last week, for example, saying that the state will not fulfil its promise, which it has made through an administrative contract, to index the amounts that the state has promised to universities. Does this also mean that the contract of employment with a junior researcher will never be indexed, and at some point this amount will be below the average wage that is currently being promised? Of course, there have been quite a number of concerns about the general development of higher education and the general funding. Very nicely, a number of speakers and questioners have pointed out here that if we impose an average salary on a doctoral student, it might happen that his supervisor, a doctorate professor, sometimes gets even less. Well, the professor may not, but the supervisor is definitely in a few places. We already know that there are over 600 researchers in our universities who even receive less than regular school teachers. These are the issues that we need to talk about, and these are those that we must not forget. For the Socialists, it is important that the share of funding for higher education is higher than GDP. We have also expressed this repeatedly, and we have even tabled the corresponding drafts. But, unfortunately, they have not passed the Committee on Culture. So, ladies and gentlemen, in the end, the Social Democrats support this draft, but we are still asking for attention to be paid to certain bottlenecks in this draft, to the general situation of higher education and to the general funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U426	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Central Party Aadu Musta. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U427	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I will start like a good colleague, Jaak White, that we will be brief and save time, but I promise I will not ask for more time. Funding for higher education, funding for doctoral studies is a very old issue. Those who have been in the Riigikogu longer remember the debate since 2007. And I remember well how we spoke on this subject with Jaak Aaviksoo, who once served as Minister of Education, who came up with a close idea and talked about how a more talented graduate of a master's degree must look for more rewarding jobs than a doctoral degree offers. The situation is, my heart rejoices over this bill today. I am not going to dissect it, but I am only saying that in the world of science and the world of higher education, the world is spinning so fast that even in order to maintain its position, it is necessary to run very quickly. We are far behind, and we have discussed in the Committee on Culture's spending a lot that we will have to discuss how to proceed from tomorrow. There will be a momentary, almost satisfactory balance, but tomorrow it will be a huge gap in the funding of education, higher education and science. Estonian society is sustainable if it has a sustainable education and if the education faith of the Estonian people, who have kept us alive for centuries, persists. I think I'm going to repeat it for the sixth time in this chair. The national independence of the Estonian people has been considered unlikely by some theorists, but one component of the Estonian people's education is missing in their computer programs. We keep it alive, we work for it, and not only when we are discussing higher education, but also when we are discussing the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U428	Thank you very much. Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 420 be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 10 November at 5.15 p.m. First reading completed and ninth item also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U429	We will move on to agenda item 10: First reading of the draft Family Conciliation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Already in Question Time, there was a very interesting debate about this. Against this background, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U430	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to stand before you with a bill that solves a rather old problem. It is also a pleasure that this bill has been prepared for a long time, already in the previous government, and in cooperation with the courts, the Ministry of Justice and, in fact, the conciliators themselves. What kind of problem does this bill solve? Solves this problem, faced with 4 000 people every year, who go to court to argue about matters of child custody, the arrangements for communicating with the child, or the maintenance issues. About one fifth of the cases that the Social Insurance Board entered the Child Welfare Department are precisely cases of disputed parents. What does that mean for a child? The separation of parents is a loss and trauma for a child. If parents do not come to a friendly agreement in the interests of the child, seeing such a dispute is the child's continuing trauma. Moreover, arguing parents focus not on raising a child but on arguing themselves. It takes time to argue. He takes money and time not only from his parents, neglecting children, but also from our judicial system and the child protection system. The purpose of this draft is to provide an out-of-court system in order for disputes to find a solution that is not enforced, because any solution to a court order is a compromise that neither party fully likes and may be even less liked by one of the parties. This, in turn, leads to a frequent situation where these court orders are not enforced and bailiffs have to intervene in everyday family life. We have also seen dramatic events through the media when children are tried to pass on from one parent to another with the help of bailiffs. An out-of-court solution would be such if the family could turn to the Social Insurance Board independently, also electronically, by submitting an application, or at an early stage in the course of legal proceedings when referring the court. What we want to achieve is a lower burden on the courts and a number of positive agreements to ensure the well-being of children. What are the disputes that can be resolved in family mediation? First of all, surely a child's communication arrangement that parents can agree with each other in the presence of a family mediator. Similarly, the size of the child's livelihood, as well as the termination or modification of custody rights, is limited to the court's direction. This amendment would enter into force on 1 July 2023. But today's family law really allows us to make changes in custody, even if there is consensus and agreement between parents, only by court. This is exhausting and unjustified for both parents who have reached an agreement and for the judicial system itself. When I said earlier that about 4 000 families turn to the courts every year with various disputes, there are, of course, more children involved in these disputes. We want to reach 3,000 families with our reconciliation service. 44 family mediators have been prepared and trained for this purpose, with whom the Social Insurance Board has also planned to conclude a contract. They're working full-time. Although we know that this need may prove to be greater in the long term, we also have confidence, because we know that in Estonia family mediators have been trained since the mid-90s and that we will be able to obtain additional resources from the service providers. The service provider is the Social Insurance Board. The Social Insurance Board is responsible for ensuring the provision of conciliation services. The Social Insurance Institution is also a conciliation body within the meaning of the Conciliation Act. He organises training for family mediators, maintains the quality of service and supervises the service. According to this law, family mediation is also subject to requirements: higher education, necessary personal characteristics for the conduct of family mediation procedures, and certainly also to the exclusion requirements set out in the Child Protection Act, i.e. the person has not committed the crimes mentioned in § 20 of the Child Protection Act, and he has completed the training of the conciliator of the Social Insurance Board, i.e. basic training and the children's rights module. If there is a question as to why conciliators with a certificate of competency must go further through this basic training and children's rights module, then as I said earlier, family mediators have been trained in Estonia since the early nineties and many of them have not provided the service for a long time or have not done so at all. Similarly, the content of the training and also the needs of society have changed somewhat. Special cases include family mediation. Special cases may include situations of close relationship violence, abuse or neglect, or where one or both parties to the conciliation have a mental disorder or mental disability. In this case, we have family mediators who have been trained and trained to deal with these special cases. In these specific cases, there is no obligation to negotiate a family agreement, and the family may opt out of it and do not have to participate in it. There are two ways to reach the service. You can contact the Social Insurance Board directly, you can do so online, but also by contacting directly or directing the court. If the family has previously been in the local government's local government's field of view, this is usually the case, then the child protection worker from the local government can also refer the person from the child protection worker to the Social Insurance Board. Let it be said here that, in the light of all such litigation, the opinion of a child protection worker is mostly required for the protection of children's interests in court proceedings, and this opinion can also be incorporated in this situation. One important criterion for the provision of conciliation services, but also for its success, is certainly that both parties agree to participate in the conciliation process and, in the specific cases already mentioned, an additional risk assessment by the Social Insurance Board so that the weaker party is not harmed or damaged. If the service is directed by a court, there is no need to submit a separate application. The total number of conciliation meetings is estimated to be five and may be more justified if necessary, but this is the current average practice. Children's hearing and children's involvement in conciliation procedures are mandatory, just as it is mandatory under the Civil Procedure Act. Every child has the right to express his or her opinion and must be heard when matters concerning his or her way of life are decided. It is possible to waive hearing the child, but there must be a good reason for this. This can be a good reason, either for the child's state of health, for the case of abuse, or for trying to avoid repeated hearing of the child, in situations where the child has already been heard by a child protection worker or the police, his or her opinion has been fixed and can be used in the conciliation process. The conciliation procedure may prove unsuccessful and in that case the dispute must still be resumed before the courts. We very much hope that there will be as little and more of these unsuccessful reconciliations as possible that are successful. This is in any case more reasonable in terms of organising children's lives than the ongoing litigation. If the conciliation procedure is successful, the parental agreement will be concluded. It's done with the conciliator. This is already confirmed by the Social Insurance Board in the course of the administrative procedure. The Social Insurance Board shall not approve agreements which are manifestly contrary to the interests of the child or which are not objectively enforceable. If the conciliation procedure is unsuccessful, the parents will be provided with proof and the litigation will continue. If successful, it will be possible to make the agreement directly enforceable and will then be used as a parental agreement, as an enforceable document within the meaning of the Code of Enforcement Procedure. If the family has reached the service through a court, the court shall close the proceedings on the basis of conciliation. The agreement approved by the Social Insurance Board replaces the previous agreements or the corresponding decisions on the dispute. Public family mediation is financed from the state budget. The budget for the following year is set at EUR 520000. In addition, the next year will be EUR 131000 from the European Economic Area and Norwegian support framework for preparatory activities, including both training and the development of an IT solution. I very much hope that, as a result of the successful completion and processing of the draft, it will be possible for families from 1 September next year to formally avoid access to justice and obtain these agreements with family mediators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U431	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U432	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. First of all, thank you very much for starting your government on this subject of family mediation. I hope you understand now, too, when you heard this draft introduction, what a screwup came out, and what the follow-up to your government's disbanding. This bill is far from what it was when this idea started. But now more specifically than this bill. In terms you yourself say very nicely that this is not a family agreement, but a parental agreement that sets out the interests of children. Maybe it's an extension of the Child Protection Act. Why did you come to realize that what is meant internationally by family mediation has been written into the law much more narrowly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U433	I did not understand this very well, but I would point out that this draft has been drawn up on the basis of a memorandum, which was first brought to the government by Mrs Riina Solman, Minister of the previous government. In fact, there have been no substantive and fundamental changes in the building up of this law. This bill explains who are family mediators within the meaning of the Family Reconciliation Act. Clearly, the Family Reconciliation Act is a slightly more specific part of the Conciliation Act, with stricter requirements and stricter rules. However, the results of family mediation can also be used in court if these decisions are confirmed by the court. So, in this sense, these two laws are not incompatible, they are acting in complete isolation, and the Conciliation Act is the umbrella law of the Family Reconciliation Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U434	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U435	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand from the draft that the agreement between the Contracting Parties will be approved by the Social Insurance Board, and that will continue to be the case. I have a serious question about this legal force. How is it ensured that the parties abide by the agreement and comply with those agreements, and what are the tools if, for example, the agreements concluded by one party are violated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U436	Thank you for your question. The supervision and enforcement procedures do not differ from what is today, which is exactly the same as the supervision of the rights and obligations of the parent, which is carried out by the child protection officer in the local government or by the bailiff in the enforcement of judicial decisions. The same kind of supervision and enforcement will work because, as I said earlier, these agreements are enforceable documents according to the Code of Enforcement Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U437	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U438	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I have § 6 "Requirements for the Perpetrator" in front of me. Its point 1 is that it must have a higher education degree. And that's where it all ends. I have the question: is this higher education defined in any way? In Estonia, we are known to be awarded higher education in very different areas of life, for which there are no prerequisites for working with people, such as land improvement or engineering technical specialties. Let's move on from here. He's only going through this training, and that's it, he's going to work with the kids. Paragraph 10 states that he or she must identify the child's interests. From there, there are also special cases of family mediation: he or she must manage intimacy violence, child abuse, neglect, even mental disorder, or children with intellectual disabilities, he or she must deal with it. How do you figure that out? Is this not at all meant or thought of in the future, or is it just a mistake? I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U439	Thank you for your question. Family mediators, as previously said, have been trained in Estonia since the mid-90s. There are several members of family mediation associations who have, among other things, obtained an invitation. Family mediators are mostly people with either social work or psychology education in Estonia. They may also have other basic education, but in order to acquire this profession, basic education, which is close to social work or psychology, is needed in order to be supplemented by training. Part of family mediation has this additional skill and training, which is related to special cases when we talk about abuse, domestic violence and, in fact, people with mental disabilities or mental disorders. Indeed, these situations require a special skill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U440	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U441	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! The first paragraph of page 5 of the explanatory memorandum begins: "The quality of the service is also a place of distress. " Here we read: "It can be assumed that since the family mediators are trained by two non-profit institutions on the basis of different training programmes, the provision of the service is also different. " Has anyone analyzed these training programmes, and would it be possible for us, Members of the Riigikogu, to get acquainted with this analysis? Right now, "you can assume." What does the Ministry of Social Affairs expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U442	The preparations have been going on for several years. As has been said, these training programmes have been analysed. On these two training programmes, the Social Insurance Board has put together a separate training programme, which has been supplemented by a module on the child's interests and the involvement of the child, supplemented by the acquisition of competence in these special cases for some conciliators. In this sense, there is also, to a large extent, concern about what I said earlier, that those conciliators who have been trained over the years and decades have perhaps not worked for years. In the early nineties, when people wanted to promote family mediation in Estonia, there was not too much use or market for reasons that they could understand. Above all, the reason was that it was on people's own wallets at the very beginning. Later, as the possibilities of our country and local government increased, the local government started to finance the service. Now we are in the process of creating a system that is first funded by the state, little of which is supported by the whole legal framework. We can replace these conciliation results by court orders. This means that we have created a new public service: a service with a very high standard, because it, as has been said, will also replace a court order. It has also been a strong desire of the judges and the Ministry of Justice to be one institution that is a partner and is responsible for both the quality of the substance and the rest of the organisation. So in this sense, we've had a pretty hectic picture so far, but thanks to this hectic picture, we actually have people who have a conciliator's education or preparation, as well as experience. Because of this earlier hecticness, we have wanted to create a situation where we have a nationally organised, one-stop-shop service, the quality of which is guaranteed and constantly monitored.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U443	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U444	Good manager! Good waitress! I am sincerely pleased, I repeat, sincerely pleased that there is not, in the end, another directive or regulation here, and so on, but that the Estonian Parliament is going to process the law drawn up here. What he is, it's going to depend heavily on us. There's no way that we can shift or maybe change a few sentences. So sincere recognition, finally seeing a real animal. But my question. There's a lot of details. There are 68 conciliators, each doing 340 sessions a year and the year is 365 days. My question is, with these 68 families, there will be such a decent... It's like becoming a family. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U445	Thank you for your question. Today, we are talking about 4,000 potential families, about whom we are trying to obtain conciliation [in proceedings] around 3,000. Conciliation sessions are estimated to be five per family and, if there is a need for more, it is possible, but this need will be assessed for each particular family and situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U446	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U447	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. You have said that today the [Estonian] Conciliation Society and the Conciliation Institute offer family mediation services. At the same time, we still have an average of 4,000 cases a year. Your forecast is that there could be an average of 3,000 years of family mediation through the Social Insurance Board in the future, in order to significantly reduce the number of cases and, of course, to reduce the burden on courts. How would you assess these two organisations how they have done their job, and how will you see cooperation between these organisations and the Social Insurance Board in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U448	Thank you. Indeed, we have appreciated that 3,000 families could arrive there. I don't think it's too optimistic. Firstly, because for the first time, we have centrally organised public funding and a well-transparent structure for providing this service. But more importantly, we have the legal framework and family law, as well as the Code of Civil Procedure, which gives the possibility that the outcome of conciliation is essentially the result of a judicial order. This is also the pressure on both the courts and people, which will lead them to take a more milder and, in fact, more positive approach to children. Now partners. The Estonian Conciliation Association has not wished to be a partner through its conciliators, as far as I know, but the Institute of Conciliation has been a very active partner. Their conciliators have been in training at the Social Insurance Board and they will also provide the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U449	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U450	Thank you. I have to admit, the idea is maybe very good, but I don't understand. If there are two organisations that provide this service, the state could finance them. Then it is said that perhaps these family mediators have learned in the last century and are no longer doing well. Now, suddenly, somewhere in the Social Insurance Board, a number of people are found who can do this very well. What is the connection between this system? So far, there have not been people who are doing very well, while two organisations have provided this service, and I think they have managed. Has the State decided that if there are providers on the side of private enterprise who offer this service, they are bad and then the State will create more jobs for the Social Insurance Board? Is there little work at the Social Insurance Board, a poor budget, or what is the problem? I honestly don't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U451	They have offered a family mediation service that is not exactly the service we are talking about within the meaning of this law. We are talking about a rather new family mediation service, which is a national standard and which has the power and power of a court order. That's the main difference. If so far the family mediation was voluntary, the courts may have directed, the people were not supposed to participate, then now we are essentially talking about a service that we make mandatory for people and where we expect a higher standard. Once again, in large part, family mediators who have previously received their invitation and have done this work will continue, but they have participated in further training at the Social Insurance Board. One organisation has been reluctant to provide services in this way. What are their reasons, they must say so themselves. The possibility of providing a service to all is open. In addition, family mediators who do not come into the national family mediation system will always have the possibility that if the court has placed [the family] in [the proceedings] or the family has gone there itself, the court will also be able to enforce the outcome of the conciliation procedure they have carried out. But we cannot treat them as part of the national family mediation system that we regulate in this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U452	Thank you. Now, please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think, Minister, exactly as you pointed out when you answered the last question, it is a national family mediation service. I think it would make sense to call this bill, too, but we can fix it. You referred to the national service on several occasions. Indeed, the introductory speech may have given the impression that this service has not been available so far, but in certain cases you spoke on several occasions about how we have been trained since the early nineties. So there were some references. But I still have a question. According to the same international understanding, only equal parties participate in family mediation, but § 11 provides for special cases which I do not consider to be the international standard for family mediation at all. Another thing is the involvement of children, which we also talked about during Question Time. I think it would make sense to involve a child when it is considered necessary and reasonable. On the contrary, this law says that there are certain possibilities if the child is not involved. Perhaps you could comment on these aspects.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U454	Yes, family mediation in special cases, as has been said, is foreseen, but is not mandatory. It's an opportunity. It is precisely those families who are in such a difficult situation of child abuse, intimacy violence or mental illness and mental impairments that, in these cases, it is significantly better for specialists with such qualifications to seek common solutions with them if there is desire, will and willingness, and a risk assessment has also been made that this does not offend the interests of these people. The second question concerning the hearing of the opinion of the child. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we joined in the years after the rebirth of the Republic of Estonia, gives us the obligation to listen to the child in all matters concerning him. Similarly, we have adopted the current Child Protection Act, which states in § 21 that the child must be heard. It also needs to be made clear about the different aspects of decisions when it comes to matters relating to its life. This is the starting point and it is only in the special case that it is possible not to ask for the opinion of the child and not to include the child, as I said earlier. When we think about these complicated disputes, not always for children of kindergarten age or younger, believe me, children have their own opinions, children have their own desires and hearing them makes us adults richer in decision-making processes. Sometimes in this reconciliation process, too, parents for the first time notice taking a step backwards and listening to what a child really thinks, what a child really wants. In disputes between themselves, where an unfinished relationship is often settled, each other is avenged, his or her right as an elder is pursued, and the rights of the child are forgotten.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U455	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U456	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Having been in contact with the resolution of disputes arising from family law for 24 years, I can say that this draft does not resolve any situation. Somewhere 85% are those cases that can really be solved by family mediation, but 15% are those where, say, the object of revenge is the opposite and even the child is used for it. I can't begin to describe these cases. But I draw attention to a very important deficiency. Special cases of family mediation: intimacy violence, child abuse, mental disorder, mental disability. Solving such issues will be put to the family mediator. I'm saying this is a very, very stupid approach. Even the judges can't handle these things. Seriously, I'm saying it's a problem because these people are mentally ill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U457	Thank you. It seemed more like a comment to me, not a question, but I can also comment back. You're saying even the judges have said they can't handle these special cases. This is precisely why it is necessary that professionals who have been trained, who have work experience and practice in working with these complex cases and in seeking solutions, may come to the assistance of judges to help them find these solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U458	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U459	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I see that, when concluding this agreement, it is important to ensure that the interests of the child are represented, that the interests of both parents are represented, that they comply with different laws, that they are in accordance with the law. This means that it is essentially a legal document. At the same time, by looking at the requirements for the family mediator, we see that there is no specific requirement for education, no specifics or directions, and then there are training courses. Is this training really so effective that, in addition to knowledge of social work, psychology and child protection principles, it also provides basic knowledge of legal areas? How long will this training take to provide them with such in-depth knowledge of different fields?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U460	In the case of higher education, we assume that people have certain basic knowledge as well as the ability to read laws. That's the assumption. But when we think about a child welfare worker who has a social work education, it is clear that he must also have all these knowledge, skills and the ability to read the law. In addition to family law, civil proceedings, he also needs to have some knowledge of criminal law, as well as of administrative proceedings, a lot of other laws in order to do his day-to-day work. As has been said before, the basic education of a very large number of conciliators is social work education or also psychology education. Both are considered to be quite close basic and pre-primary education. This volume of knowledge of laws is not as great as the family mediators, or the need that may seem to you. The skills the family mediator needs are quite simple. When we talk about determining the size of a child's livelihood and when we talk about determining how to communicate with a child, the substantive compromise that is being made is still being made on matters of life, the organisation of the child's daily life. If there are more complex legal problems that can undoubtedly arise in the case of some families, then the Social Insurance Board is extremely necessary as a service provider and managing the whole process, and could receive the necessary additional assistance and support. Because the agreement that parents enter into with each other, they really do make with the conciliator, but this administrative decision is made or finally approved by the Social Insurance Board. That decision is then also a substitute for a court order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U461	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U462	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, as Mr Ernits said, we are actually dealing with the very, very necessary law, but in order for it to become a very good law, we still have to pick a little bit here. I am also asking about Article 9 on refusal to provide family mediation services. Point 1 states that it may be refused if the person is not entitled to family mediation. Is there any provision for who will determine it or who will decide who will have the right and who will not have the right? Is the law on family mediation also defined in this respect by another law, which, in turn, in some way provides for these grounds of refusal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U463	The grounds for refusal are indeed set out in this law, but I am unfortunately indebted to the detailed answer at the moment. Wait a minute. I can't find it. I'm sorry! I am indebted to this answer, which specifically concerns this issue. But the grounds for refusal, as has been said, are set out in this law. I'm so sorry, I can't find that slide.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U464	Let's take it easy. If you want to use it to answer, there is time. Let's take it easy. Or can you send me later?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U465	I'll answer that question later, Moonika. Really, I owe you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U466	Understood. Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U467	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, The subject matter is undoubtedly important, but important issues such as the state versus local government and the introduction of a new service to the market have been before. For example, let us talk about the mental health of young people. I remember that at one point the country was also the initiator and launcher, the Norwegian and EEA financial mechanism supported, and finally came to the municipal door, it was said that it would certainly be necessary for the municipality to put the matter under its shoulders. Are these financial features very precisely in place here so that we don't have a surprise at some point? We understand that these systems are actually connected. If we are based on the work of a child protection specialist, then these roots, as they begin and from somewhere in the country, this problem must be resolved in this system. How do you describe this side?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U468	Thank you for your question. You refer to children's mental health centres and piloting periods, after which funding was interrupted and only some children's mental health centres managed to continue the service in the desired way. Pärnu did not do well; the mental health of Tallinn's children was somewhat better. But for this service, we have a resource in the state budget for the next year of 520000 and in the coming years of a state budget base of 1.5 million each year. So it's planned for the state budget. While you have already touched on this issue of children's mental health, I say that next year we will be able to finance some of the development and improvement of services in these same centres of mental health for children, but of course not in the extent that we would really like to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U469	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U470	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I'm just going to read out some facts. In 2004, the Estonian Association of Family Dealers trained crisis specialists in Tallinn, who offered family mediation until 2013. In 2006 and 2007, the Child Welfare Association asked for family mediation training for child welfare workers. 2008 started the first comprehensive 160-hour family mediation training and training programme, and since 2010 the association has trained various specialists in the field of family mediation, such as judges, lawyers and child protection staff, and has carried out further training. Does this mean that today's trainers are no longer trainers, and that the competences of judges and child protection workers have shrunk because just the conciliators should go through 160 hours of training again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U471	According to the draft, those conciliators who have not completed the training of the Social Insurance Board must demonstrate their competence in the examination. Those who have not completed the children's hearing module must go through it separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U472	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U473	Good manager! Good minister! I have a question. You replied that officials would be given the power and power of justice. Is it really the case that we by law give one person the right to make the same decision that is made in court? I understand that the name is beautifully "family mediation," the Social Insurance Board concludes a contract with someone, and the decision is the same as the power and power of the court. What's that supposed to mean today? Are we going to have more than one judicial authority in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U474	It is not an official, it is a service provider who works under contract. This has been very carefully considered with the Ministry of Justice, which are the possible disputed issues that we want and can give to the conciliators to resolve. The conciliation procedure is not a forced decision by anyone. The conciliator does not make a decision; the parties to be reconciled make a decision. The conciliator fixes it and directs the process of interaction between the two people who argue with each other. So we are not talking here about the decision made by someone else, but about the result of reconciliation, the process that a professional is leading and during which the parties who are debating come to a compromise. It shall be fixed in the conciliation agreement by the conciliator. This is accepted or accepted by both parties. The Social Insurance Institution is the so-called warranty stamp to formalise it as an enforceable document.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U475	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U476	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In my opinion, you have done some work with this law, however, because no document obliges these hostile parties to carry out any kind of action. Even a court order does not help if the child needs to be handed over to the parent by a certain date on the subject of child custody, because then different options will be found and so on. Here, however, there is the authority of a judge who is often a very quick and effective factor in resolving vital issues. The same service provider does not have this experience, and often he becomes afraid of one party, who is perhaps aggressive about the parent. But plus in this case, you've changed the law on enforcement proceedings, which obliges the person who obstructs this execution to apply a financial penalty. Now that's a plus. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U477	If you, Kalle Grünthal, a honourable member of the Riigikogu, point out that judicial power is what makes people behave in a certain way, by judgment or by order, then in these family disputes we have, on the contrary, come to the knowledge that a court order does not cause people to behave in this way. As I explained at the beginning, this is a conflict situation, which is very personal, where the issues of unfinished relationships are often resolved and in fact the interest of the child or the agreement itself is irrelevant. If the court orders, it is not a compromise that satisfies both parties but is imposed on one party or the other as an obligation to comply. One feels like he didn't get anything, the other feels like the other half got too much. But when we talk about this agreement that the two sides voluntarily enter into with the help of a professional, it is a substantive compromise. The two arguing parties themselves arrive with the supervisor to the point that they agree that the best way to bring children or children together is to pay this sum monthly, or precisely this definition of custody. That is the essence of reconciliation, that we are not talking about a decision that is being made over the heads of people, but about an agreement that people are making between themselves, putting the interests of their child or children at the centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U478	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U479	Thank you. I agree with you that the agreement is certainly a better solution than a coercive one. We've seen this coercive solution too, we've been solving these problems for a long time. But my question comes as an illustration. If it really happens that a social worker or child protection specialist discovers a case where a child has been abused in a family with intimate violence, how do these events begin to spread out in real life? How do you get to a family maker? Perhaps there has also been a statement to the police, right, the police are conducting a procedure and then a chain is reached, whether it is a criminal procedure, a misdemeanour or a conciliation procedure. How does this work in real life, maybe you can describe it briefly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U480	Minister, I apologize. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U481	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I'm sorry, of course. I would have expected the minister to respond first. But since this is such an important question that is currently on this table and my experiential basis says that all the views expressed by the Minister are not correct, I would like to ask the President of the Riigikogu whether it is possible to ask a third question, because this is an extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U482	Thank you. Answer: There isn't. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U483	Thank you. An extremely good and important issue. Perhaps here, in some ways, is also the key that we often carry out different processes [even]. If there has been mistreatment in the family, whether it has been in the direction of the child or it has been between parents, and the child has been an eyewitness, we will not go into the matter of parental custody at all, but we will go into the proceedings that are criminal proceedings, suspicion, and see what happens in this case. At the same time, child protection workers must take steps to ensure the safety of the child. Depending on the situation at home, whether the perpetrator can be separated from the child or not, there may be very different scenarios. The worst case scenario for a child is when a family is violent, another parent is unable to protect himself or the child and the child has to temporarily find a place of residence in a third place, especially with close relatives, but it may also be a shelter or replacement care. Of course, this cannot be done by a decision of a social worker, but by appropriate legal proceedings, which are already a matter for a civil court. So you always have to look at criminal and civil matters apart. These primary legal protections, which are also used by civil courts to protect the child, must first be implemented. It is necessary to reach a situation where parents wish to do so, or where they need to start resolving the issues of maintenance, social security or custody altogether. This is usually not an acute issue in the first few months when we talk about cases of violence, whether against a child or within the family. These situations, where the family has broken up or the cohabitation has never been, and parents have different expectations of their role in raising a child, are of course different; parents mostly want to get all things legally clear and accurate. In those situations where, for example, if there is an agreement between parents, there is an obligation to go to court to resolve custody issues, this law provides an opportunity to enter into such an agreement without a court. There's no argument, there's no discussion. In another situation, there may be an argument between parents. In that case, you don't have to go to court in the same way. Even if they go to court first, the court will refer them to family mediation and, under the professional guidance of the family mediator, a compromise agreement can be reached, both wills being taken into account and the interests of the child placed at the centre. This is, so to speak, a simplistic whole process. The situations are different, extremely different.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U484	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U485	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. There has been an interesting and long debate. Thanks for that. I would ask you this: Every law requires resources to make it work, be it human resources, time or financial resources. Training also requires resources. Is it known how much additional resources would be needed for this law to work and for it to deliver on society?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U486	Next year, the European Economic Area and Norwegian financial mechanisms will be prepared, the IT platform will be developed and there will be [activities] related to training. 131000. For the provision and provision of the service itself from 1 September next year, the budget for the following year is assumed to be 520000. In full years from then onwards, which is also currently included in the state budget base, the order of magnitude is one-and-a-half million. In 2023 it will be 1450000, but then it will rise to 1.5 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U487	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much. I now ask for the presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Marek Jürgenson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U488	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Family Conciliation Act 438 initiated by the Government of the Republic was held in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 19 October including. On behalf of the Commission, the speaker here, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Anti Poolamets, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast took part. Ms Signe Riisalo, Minister for Social Protection, as well as her advisor Laura Danilas and [advisor] Liisa-Lotta Raag, Head of the Private Legal Service of [Ministry of Justice] Vaike Murumets and Adviser to the same department Stella Johanson, were also invited. Like today in this Chamber, the Minister gave us an overview, but we did not have such a lively discussion as we did today in Question Time and now, in answering questions here in the Commission, we did not. Understandably, this was also only the first reading in the Commission. However, there were some questions for the Minister. The speaker asked about the volume of family mediation that this ratio could be, how much fewer cases could be in the future and how much less could the courts be burdened with work. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked which organisations had so far provided family mediation services. The Minister replied that the [Estonian] Conciliation Association and the Conciliation Institute are the two organisations that will continue to cooperate with the Social Insurance Board in the future. Today, the Minister has already repeatedly answered those questions who are interested and who are not. Then Tarmo Kruusimäe asked whether the organisations I was just talking about had the appropriate qualifications and permissions. The Minister replied that certain training modules would actually need to be completed if these organisations were to cooperate with the Social Insurance Board. In addition, we made procedural decisions. There was a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 27 October, here was a consensus between all the parties involved in the work of the Commission; to propose the completion of the first reading, there was a consensus; to propose the deadline for amendments to be set at 4 p.m. on 5 November; there was a consensus here too; to appoint Mr Pikhof, the member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who I have to replace here today, as Heljo cannot be here with us today in terms of election results and coalition negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U489	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions. Even this last part didn't raise any interesting questions right now. I'm opening negotiations. Please contact Tarmo Kruusimäe, representative of the Isamaa Group of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U490	Thank you, good Chairman! Good workmates, decision-makers, law-makers! We have received a bill from the Ministry of Social Affairs and then the Social Insurance Board, which tells us about family mediation. But there's something I'd like to talk about. Internationally recognised, the subject of family mediation is not only disputes between parents in matters of rights of communication and maintenance obligations, as provided for in the draft, but also other issues relating to children, in which the draft will still be brought before the courts by the parents first, such as differences in the choice of kindergarten or school, differences in treatment issues, differences in who the child can or cannot communicate with, property-care issues and so on. Referral to the court itself leads to the formulation of claims and therefore often entails immediate costs for both parties. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] On the other hand, however, obtaining justice always causes anxiety and creates conflict even if it did not exist before. In order to reduce the paradigmical change of approach to court, according to the Estonian Conciliators' Association, conciliation in all disputes involving children between parents, including custody matters, will result, except in cases that we have already discussed here, which exclude family mediation. Thus, this bill unduly narrows the concept of family mediation. We had a question here that there is a family reconciliation law right now, but why couldn't he be a national family mediation law? The Justice Department answered last Thursday that we had all the laws national. But the Fatherland sees that we could still have a private and public service on the market. So why are private conciliators no longer suitable? We are told that we have experienced specialists from somewhere and that they will also train judges, child protection workers and everyone else who has been actually trained for 20 years. Does that mean at some point they're saying it's not a criminal anymore? It reminds me of a very simple thing. We've all made a bicycle license out of a young man once. Now, imagine if there's a job coming up and it's really gonna take some app module for a bike license, you know how to use Waze, if you're riding this bike, and if you haven't passed that module, you can't drive anymore. Which the old gentleman says, "Hey, kiddo, why now, I've been driving my whole life, you know, I don't need that app. But we just need 160 hours to do it! The Minister said that other trainers have not passed this child hearing module. But I'm afraid it is. Maybe there was a little lack of truth in it. Yes, it is a good initiative in every way, but we do not understand why it needs to be so narrowly centralised and, at the same time, private [service providers] are excluded. They now have to do this 160-hour in-service training again, and then they're like those people again. It remained unclear where these competent and experienced people would come from. IT solutions. Well, I'm sorry, I'm gonna allow myself a little comparison that I didn't say last time. It was when they asked me how we had this HOIA app, I said, "What are you doing with that HOIA app?" You know, you're in it, you could share that same thing with other people. Imagine that a person who gets coronalized writes that he's coronalized, and then he walks around healthy people. The Coronian is home. It's actually just like the Dark Tinder. You know there's someone out there, but you can't see who it is. I do not want such solutions at this moment. We're talking about kids, actually. And most importantly, if children are also being questioned in criminal proceedings [only] at the very least, it has begun that we have to save children. If parents cannot reach an agreement between themselves, there is no need to tear children between them. Therefore, I hope that we can make good improvements in this bill, perhaps by focusing on children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U491	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 5 November at 16 a.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U492	Let us move swiftly to agenda item 11. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of the Environment Tõnis Möldri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U493	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act prepared by the Ministry of the Environment. The amendments lay down the legal bases for the provision of paid services by the Environmental Agency at the level of the Act. The maximum and minimum rates for paid services per type of service shall also be laid down and the mandate for the Minister for the Environment to establish a more precise list of paid services shall be laid down. The draft concerns a total of six paid-up services. They are a special weather forecast, a special forecast model, a pay-per-view syncoptic information telephone, the production of a helm, analysis of meteorological and hydrological data and calculations of hydrological engineering solutions. Prices are calculated on the basis of accounting calculations, i.e. real costs are the basis for the price of services and profits from this service are not directly generated. Perhaps the State wants to cover the additional costs [which arise] by providing [services] to companies. The prices included in the draft include all components, including labour costs, economic costs and overheads. The draft also sets out limits. This is enough to cover these components mentioned above. National environmental monitoring is otherwise generally financed from the state budget, but historically there has also been a demand for services outside the environmental programme, such as the analysis of meteorological and hydrological data and special weather forecasting. Year-on-year demand for such specific services is also rising. Many private and public legal entities, or customers, need these services on the basis of their individual and specific needs. However, it really needs to be taken into account that these are narrow solutions and that there is no public interest in these services. The aim of the amendments is to reduce the workload of the Environmental Agency and the administrative burden on customers. Own revenues allow personalised services to be provided, as the individual customer's specific needs are not matched by public services. I would like to continue to emphasise that all such weather data will be publicly available to all parties, including public service companies, but if companies want something special, this bill will allow it. So, in summary, this is a clarification of the legal bases for the environmental agency's paid services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U494	Thank you. There's at least one question for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U495	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Will there be any kind of hierarchy in that regard that a national meteorology station and others, in the sense of whose? I'd just like to make a little bit of a note. Once there was a web environment like weather.ee, which showed a webcam in every city. They themselves took out the newspapers, which was the weather forecast, and accordingly drew up their own. Later, everyone else began to look at their data and reflect them in their newspaper. That's what my question is: what's more important now? I understand the bill still says we can get private service providers, and it's kind of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U496	Thank you. First of all, as far as weather data are concerned, these are still provided by the State Weather Service, as it has always offered them. I'm suggesting to you, I've got my own I was just checking to see if it's still working at the weather app ILM+. Very good app is, I think that Estonia's best interactive weather report will come in all the time and the public service will be available. It makes sense, really, that if, as a private operator, you want to receive more specific data specifically concerning the provision of services related to your company, and you want the state to estimate some specific data for you over a longer period of time, it is, of course, reasonable that you pay the state separately for this service. This bill will allow this in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U497	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U498	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned this in favour of the fact that this service has buyers, both in private and public entities. Is there an overview of how much the state settles itself in this context, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U499	Yeah, I'll be more specific. Maybe I was wrong. No, the recipients of the public service do not have to purchase the service. In these cases, we can see that both local authorities and public authorities will be covered by this public service. But those customers who could potentially buy it are somewhere 65, those who already order large-scale services from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U500	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U501	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Any law has both positive and negative effects or not both positive effects, perhaps it would be more accurate to say. I ask this question: can this amendment of the law have any negative effects, whether economic or operational, or whatever? How does it feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U502	I honestly say that if I am here before you with this bill, I still hope that he will only have a positive effect. But it is logical that, if this bill is not adopted today, then, in fact, in this form, the provision of such services on a private basis is going to go beyond the rule of law from time to time. It would be logical for private companies to pay for this service. It doesn't really qualify for this kind of public-interest orbit for a long time. If a private company orders specific forecasts for its own use, it has no public interest. If this draft does not go through in this form and the state cannot charge a fee, then the effect may be that the state loses these services in this form and the loss is rather private business.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U503	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U504	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I've been joking for years that synoptics could make their own party, because no one would mind if they screwed up with forecasts, but they always wish everyone well. I ask about the situation [of] which construction companies have asked about. I think it's five years ago. It was known that it would rain all weekend, obviously rooftops, and things couldn't be done. The workers were allowed to celebrate the weekend, two sweet workdays. And what wasn't was rain. At this point, the object was completed and all this was delayed, but this forecast could no longer be held accountable. Is it now associated to some extent that the weather forecaster is still responsible when such a cardinal change is that the sun is instead of the dry rain?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U505	You could answer with a joke here, but let's answer seriously. I think that the more operationally and precisely we can predict the weather, the more operationally we can reshape these prediction models. I'm getting to that weather app again, and it's good to see that perspective. You shouldn't send everyone home for the weekend, because maybe by Sunday the weather has changed and you can do a full day's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U506	That's an interesting idea we're gonna end up here. Thank you. No further questions for you. I ask Timo Suslov, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu, for a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U507	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good members! I will give a brief overview of what happened in the Committee on the Environment. The Committee on the Environment discussed the issue on Tuesday, 12 October, including: The members of the Commission were Heiki Kranich, Igor Kravtšenko, Natalia Malleus, Timo Suslov and Yoko Alender. Taimar Ala, Director of the Environment Agency, Head of Services Rainis Uiga, Deputy Secretary-General Margit Martinson of the Ministry of the Environment and Adviser to the Legal Department Marko Lelov were invited. The topic was discussed in such a way that Taimar Ala gave a brief overview, just as the Minister did today. I'm not gonna say that again here. Yoko Alender asked whether the fixed prices for services would be fixed by a ministerial decree, in which case Taimar Ala replied that the draft law would set price ranges and that the specific price would be specified by a ministerial regulation. Yoko Alender further examined how many years the price ranges to be fixed should be appropriate. Taimar Ala says it's hard to tell when to change them again. Marko Lelov added that price ranges for services are also mentioned in, for example, the radiation law adopted in 2016, and so far they have not had to be changed. Heiki Kranich also examined which law would require the establishment of price ranges in the law, in which case Marko Lelov said that the Supreme Court's judgments contain several times the elements that should be mentioned in the Act when it comes to public remuneration. The speaker asked how much the State can charge for the services, in addition to which Taimar Ala replied in the explanatory memorandum, that paid services are needed for approximately 65 customers per year and the revenue per year is indicatively EUR 150000. Then decisions were made. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda for the first reading on 27 October, including by consensus. It was subsequently decided to propose the termination of the first reading, as well as the consensus, and to appoint Timo Suslov as the representative of the lead committee, as well as the consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U508	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 10 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and item 11 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U509	We are moving to agenda item 12, still at a speedy pace: First reading of draft law amending the Land Valuation Act, Land Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aabi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U510	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law on land valuation, the Land Tax Act and other laws that I can introduce to you here. First of all, it has to be said that it really has been done for a long time. Whether it's beautiful is yours to judge. The draft regulates the conduct of the regular land assessment and the implementation of the results. A regular land assessment is a mass land assessment, where a market-based value is found for all cadastral units. The values found are the basis for determining the fees for land tax, contracts for the use of state land and also for the toleration of technical networks. The last assessment was carried out in 2001 on a regular basis. The current tax price for land has been far below market value in 20 years. The law then included a provision that the evaluation should be carried out on a regular basis, but was not determined by what regularity, although everyone understood that it should be assessed every four years. It's been 20 years. Since the tax price has changed so much from the market value in that period, it leaves people unaware of the real value of their land and can also cause damage to them when dealing with the land. Similarly, land tax and land use charges are no longer market-based, although they should be. It is estimated that the price of land has increased seven times on average over 20 years. The changes have been quite different from region to region and due to land use. Thus, the regular valuation of the land also leads to an increase in the tax price of the land and may be reflected in a higher land tax and higher usage charges for the land owner. The current package of legislative changes also has safeguards to mitigate the effects and the sharp rise in tax. First of all, I will introduce the proposed changes to the regular land valuation. The assessment will take place on a regular basis every fourth year. The law now also sets out the range when it must take place. The Land Board conducts mass assessments on the basis of international standards and national databases. Each plot receives an individual approximate market value, i.e. the tax price of the land. We have sufficient data on all real estate transactions and parcels of sufficient quality. Therefore, no incorrect land price zones will be used for this assessment as compared to 2001. The evaluation will be carried out in the second half of 2022. The results of the evaluation will be implemented according to the draft at the beginning of 2024. 2023 is an intermediate year, allowing landowners to get acquainted with the results and municipalities to deal thoroughly with new tax rates. Municipalities must set these rates six months before the new tax rates are enforced, i.e. no later than 1 July 2023. It should be borne in mind that, in the regular assessment of the land, the social value is wider than the [clearness] of the tax base of the land alone. Information about the market-based value of the land will be available free of charge to all from the land registry. If there is a need to decide on the price of the transaction, the tax price provides primary information about the price and reduces the risk of making an uninformed transaction. In addition, it allows smaller land-related transactions to be carried out with less money and time without having to order expert advice. Information about the value of the land will be available to everyone free of charge in the land registry. There is no doubt that the land tax will have an impact on the land tax when it is assessed regularly. Land tax receipts have remained at almost the same level since 2012. As the economy and wages have grown rapidly in the meantime, land tax burden has decreased over time. As you all know, Estonia's share of property taxes in GDP or total tax receipts is competitively lowest among OECD countries. All land tax is received by municipalities and forms part of the income base. It is therefore the duty of the State to regularly assess countries in order to ensure that the tax base is up-to-date and fair. In order to prevent land tax from becoming too large in the future, the draft provides for lower maximum tax rates. While the maximum rates currently range from 2 to 2.5% of the land tax price, they will be 0.5 to 1% in the future. This will significantly reduce the impact of the regular valuation on the rise in land tax. In the future, the municipality will be able to set three tax rates, separate rates for residential, commercial and commercial land. As I said, specific tax rates depend directly on decisions taken by local governments. The maximum rate is foreseen and within this limit the municipality can decide the rate itself. It is also possible for municipalities to set new rates in such a way that for most landowners, land tax does not rise at all and some may even fall. The value of some of the plots has risen significantly above the average and the owners of such land may be hit by a surge in tax. In order to prevent this, the draft provides for a limitation that land tax may not increase by more than 10% in any parcel per year compared to the previous year. The draft provides that this limit on annual growth will continue to apply to all subsequent evaluations and increases in tax rates. Land tax is an important source of income for municipalities. Following the tax exemption imposed in 2012, land tax rates have remained close to the current maximum permitted rates and tax receipts have not been able to increase. This has worsened the tax autonomy of municipalities, which we also have one of the smallest among OECD countries. If the municipality can freely decide on the rates according to the local people's agreement, it is, for example, the decision whether to apply a higher or lower country tax, then it can be decided accordingly whether to provide more or less public services. Of the sums due from the land tax, municipalities guarantee public goods, including the maintenance of roads and streets, which is particularly important for landowners. I believe that, following a regular assessment, municipalities are responsible for setting rates. The owners do not have to worry about the large rise in the land tax, as the tax exemption for the land under home is maintained according to the draft as it was introduced in 2012. In addition, an amendment to the law extends the exemption for the land under the law in such a way that, if, for example, commercial premises are located on the first floor of an apartment building, home owners would no longer have to pay land tax for the part of commercial land as from 2024. All you have to do is pay for housing. This change affects about 9700 homes. The cost of land taxation is also linked to compensation for the tolerability of utility networks and many charges for contracts for the use of state land. On average, the evaluation will raise farm fees four times, which may increase the interest of landowners in applying for farm benefits in the future. In addition, contracts for the use of State land relating to the price of land would become more market-conform. If the tax prices of the land correspond to the market value, they can also be used more widely in drawing up contracts. This would make it possible to save money and time by reducing the need for peer reviews. In order to prevent a sharp rise in user charges, the law sets a single 3% rate for land tax charges instead of the current fragmented system, where charges are 2 to 7% of the land tax price. Finally, I would like to thank all the officials from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment and the Land Administration who helped with the draft. The preparatory work has been carried out for almost two years; it has been very thorough. Involvement has also been very thorough when we talk about various interest groups. Regular land evaluation is expected for 20 years, and it makes sense to finally do so. As I said, it is also a duty of the state. All impacts have been thoroughly analysed in the draft and adequate solutions have been proposed. I ask the Riigikogu to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U511	Good minister! You have questions too. Ivi Eenmaa begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U512	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Aab! I was also at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where the presentation of this draft took place, and there was a great, good team. The bill itself is voluminous. Maybe I'll start with one of the points in your explanatory memorandum, [point] 2.2 Land tax related changes. This concerns quite a large proportion of the population, namely pensioners. As you said, this land with a compound destination will be released in the future, if I understood correctly, for their added value, I mean paying for business premises and so on. But you also have a sentence here that, in addition, the conditions for applying additional relief to pensioners, persons with no working capacity and those who have been repressed will be clarified. Please specify this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U513	The general exemption is the same for everyone, regardless of who that person is. However, the benefits were also included in the previous Land Tax Act in order to obtain the additional tax exemption. They shall be specified. I'm not going to describe them for long. I could say more in writing and give you [answer] if you want it, because it is a pretty long part of the bill and also of the details.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U514	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U515	Thank you for the floor. Good minister! Earth's assessment would have been either way, or there would have been no way out of it anyway. But the rise in land tax is still relatively important. I ask what the impact on farmers is. I'm talking about usury, rental prices. Was there, for example, a partial reimbursement of land tax or some other form of relief for farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U516	The main limit, which limits the surge, is written here for all countries, for all land units: no more than 10% can rise. How much it actually increases depends on the decision of the municipality. In fact, if we look at agricultural land, the rate proposed under this draft is four times as much as it was in the past. The final rate depends on the municipality. The municipalities must assess the situation of the different target countries, the increase in market value, the increase in the tax price, and the way in which they [countries] are used. Certainly, one of the positive effects of this land evaluation is that it motivates us to use it effectively rather than simply buy it out just in case. What the tax increase will certainly bring is that a person needs to think through what he is doing to these lands.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U517	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U518	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I don't know, I can't imagine what this thing's gonna look like. Land transactions in some areas, Tallinn, Harjumaa, considering how fast land prices have increased, there are few offers. I don't know if you have any idea how many deals this year have been made with residential land in Pirita or Nõmme. I think it's impossible to buy land in places like this, quite impossible. These transactions are rare and, since there are no offers, individual transactions can lead to very high prices. What will the assessment on the basis of the reference method or transactions already carried out in such regions still look like? Do you have any idea how many deals Pirita or Nõmme have made this year with residential land that you can even compare to?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U519	Thank you for your question. I don't know the exact number of transactions between Nõmme and Pirita, but I think that the number of transactions is enough to estimate this land by market value. Rather, the number of transactions is limited. How would I describe this model? Actually, 80% is what we get through mass assessment, compared to real estate transactions. In those regions where there is a number of transactions below a certain threshold, the number of transactions is taken together and compared with other regions of the same kind. It shall be assessed by such a formula. 80% is virtually automatic, market-based transactions estimate it, while the remaining 20% of the land units are estimated by a formula that compares regions with similar market values because there are not so many transactions, this price cannot be automatically charged. But about Nõmme and Pirita, I'll write the question down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U520	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U521	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm trying to look at the bigger picture. The earth tax will rise and rise again and rise again. At one point there is a situation where the landlord cannot pay the land tax and decides to sell the land. There are certainly, I believe, lines beyond the border, basically on guard, in order to acquire this land. In essence, we also sell our land to foreign citizens, who basically have sufficient financial resources to deal with it. Do you not see the danger now in this rise in land tax that the citizens of Estonia may at some point be in their own country without land?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U522	Thank you for your question. This bill does not regulate who the land is sold to and how it is sold to. It is about valuation and taxation. As for the fact that the price of the land may be too much, I say that the price of the land has been the basis for 20 years. As I said, in the meantime, the market value of this land has risen seven times. The land must have a fair tax basis, which corresponds to the time and market value, then the tax is fair. Since it has not been possible to assess regularly for so long, as I have described, there are a number of measures here that will ease this rapid growth. This is due to the fact that the land has been so long unappreciated in terms of the basis of taxation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U523	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U524	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, the price of the land is largely determined either through public interest or through planning procedures. After all, we know that the logic of land price formation is increasingly interfered with, for example, with the general planning procedure, which has introduced the concept of KAH areas that have not taken up their place in the lawroom. The KAH area can be very freely on someone's private forest land surrounded by a collection of buildings. My question comes from this area. Did you discuss the fact that if a local authority decides, for example, to restrict rights to a general plan, the rights of the owner, then in fact it could automatically have the right to participate in the formation of land tax? This should not automatically be a matter of market conditions; its effects are quite different. This is not directly linked to the price of the land, but to the restriction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U525	Yeah, I remember. Thank you for your question. It's still a topical question. I think this dispute was only recently in the process of dealing with some other bill. There were once again very different proposals by forest owners, local authorities. I know that a long attempt was made to negotiate how great the decision-making power is and how much the burden can be imposed and who will compensate for it. That was the key question. As far as I know, there was no solution. If the municipality has the right to designate these KAH areas, then of course, it would be natural that if the possibility of earning money or profit or profit from this country is reduced, then this mechanism should somehow be considered. No solution found. I met a private forest federation, too, and I know their concerns. I think this is an unresolved issue that should be dealt with further. This does not directly concern the corresponding drafts here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U526	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U527	Good manager! Dear Minister, You mentioned when you answered the questions that it could rise four times. This may also mean that network charges on electricity, sewerage, gas, or anything else may also rise. Was this also discussed in the debate on this bill, said?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U528	Thanks for asking. Yeah, it was also a pretty lively discussion on how to hedge that growth there. It is currently written in the bill that it will rise within three years, starting in 2024, it will not be at the 10% rate. Well, how do you describe it? It is likely that the landowners who tolerate the utility networks have so far been relatively evil because they have not received much for it, I say the language of the people. Now they'll get more for it. But it does have an impact on the same thing, say, the service or the thing that goes through it. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has calculated this electrical matter. This increase in the price of all electricity is not very high, it may have stayed with a cent or a couple, even if all this rise is off. As I said, this bill will start to rise in 2024 and in three years the real price will be reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U529	Mr. Ceder, do you have a procedural question? No, it's not. Then the finger went off or whatever you had against it. Yeah. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U530	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In general, this limit on the annual increase in the land tax amount is supported in these coordination tables. However, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry points out that the percentage of the threshold mentioned in the draft could be slightly lower, and a comparison with Denmark is also introduced. This has not been taken into account. The justification is that there is no reason to believe that local governments will immediately apply the maximum tax rates, and in fact this limit of 10% will probably be applied to countries which have risen faster than the average. Has this calculation already been made, which is more expensive than the average, or is it still coming up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U531	Thank you for your question. In fact, here at the materials I can also send them, there are zones and maps that show how much land [price] differs from the actual market value, i.e. how much this tax base, the price that was set in 2001, is different from the current market value. They are really very different in different regions, for different purposes. Somewhere along the way, forest land has certainly been more expensive than this seven times, by which the land has averaged, etc. We've been playing with these rates a little bit. For example, forest land reduces four times the rate that can be set as much as possible. Yes, there was also a debate about what this ceiling should be like, that if you put this barrier on, how much a year has to grow. There were different suggestions. Municipalities and the Union of Cities and Municipalities were in favour of not putting this barrier so low, whereas those involved in paying this tax certainly wanted a lower one. So this agreement between the various parties, or at least the middle road we were looking for with the authorities and interest groups, was finally 10%, and that's how he got into the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U532	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U533	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There is no doubt that the Land Valuation Act and Land Tax Act are out of date, and this great re-evaluation work simply needs to be done once and for all. But I have a different kind of problem. The amendments to the construction code relating to the construction of water and the sea are coming to the first reading today. Eesti Energia has pointed out that this draft, which is currently being submitted by you, amends the Electricity Market Act, or amends the tax price of the land, "the text section "7% production land" is replaced by "3% distributed production land," i.e. about three times lower. But the problem is that the draft building code cancels the point you kindly make more favourable and still sets the higher price. Which law will be passed first?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U534	Thank you for your question. I have to check, I don't know how to answer. This argument was that the amendment to the Electricity Market Act, which is here, contradicts the draft building project for construction at sea in this respect. Okay, checking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U535	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U536	Thank you. Honourable Minister! My question is about § 121 (2). I quote in the explanatory memorandum: "[Article 121 (2) of the MHS] states that, from 1 January 2024, the earlier price of land, calculated on the basis of the results of the regular valuations of 1993, 1996 and 2001, is to be applied only in the cases provided for in the legislation. Thus, where the legislation expressly states that the tax price of the land will be used (e.g. in several Land Reform Acts) after the introduction of the tax prices for the land determined as a result of the next regular valuation, it will continue to apply. This means that, for example, in the area of land reform, existing tax prices will remain in place after the entry into force of new land tax prices... " I now ask what the cases are in the case of land reforms and whether they are timeless, that there will never be a border, so if the land reforms are endless, they will have an endless price and will not be passed on to new prices or how.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U537	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, land use contracts have been amended by another bill or law. I'll check it out. It's not endless, it's also going up there. There's a right, as far as I know, to buy out the land of those who use it under these contracts. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, usury. Okay, I'll check it out, but as far as I know, it's not gonna last forever.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U538	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U539	Thank you. Good minister! You said that farm prices would rise four times in the case of power lines and other [plants] that pass through the estates. If I remember correctly, it wasn't until recently, 2019, they must have been changed. They're not really big. But this increase is likely to hit the final consumers, it's going into the price of electricity. Especially today, in a situation where electricity prices are high, it can be a rather painful blow. How big is it gonna be? The other thing is that we know that, of course, landowners will be happy about it. But they also have a growing bill, and a large part of our land, agricultural and forestry land, is owned by foreign investors, foreign farmers. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] By doing so, a large part of this farm reward goes to them. Maybe you can talk about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U540	Thank you for your question. As I have already said, this tolerance fee, when the laws apply according to this bill, will begin to rise in 2024. The authorities' agreement was that it would be three years. How much this will affect the final price of electricity, I can't say exactly that right now. Its impact was relatively small. But I can recheck these calculations at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They've got these calculations done. As far as the ownership of the land is concerned, unfortunately I cannot comment on it, it is governed by other laws, not by these drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U541	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U542	Thank you. The methodology is changing, while the municipality still has the right to decide on rates. It's different on farmland and forest land. When we talk about market prices, the market price is different, but in this draft, was the possibility of creating, for example, a different mechanism for agricultural land to allow the municipality to set a differentiated, higher tax rate on valuable agricultural land than on low value arable land also discussed? We have talked about the protection of valuable farmland, but the other way around we could give the municipality more rights. The resource that produces more is more expensive, isn't it, but it probably doesn't appear so strongly in the land tax system. Did you discuss that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U543	Thank you for your question. The division of these different rates between different purposes or, as the questioner asked, whether valuable cropland or just arable land was, in general, a lively discussion. The specialists and, in fact, the stakeholders who were involved, suggested not to become too complicated with this system, so that there would be a concentration of purposes. In fact, there are three main purposes and three specific rates. I do not know if the issue of valuable agricultural land is to be mentioned separately, the legislator has the right to do so. Pretty precise technological solutions, I don't know. It should be added to one purpose and it would then be possible to set these rates separately within that purpose. But during the drafting of the draft, it was rather a proposal to say how to make these destinations more universal rather than so much different.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U544	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U545	Thank you. I'm still going to ask you how you imagine it, right here in Tallinn and in the vicinity of Tallinn. Take Viimsi, for example. Viimsi municipality no longer initiates practically new detailed planning of residential land, the existing ones are being built full, which means that the land in circulation is becoming smaller and smaller. There are still very few vacant residential areas in the city of Tallinn. You guys used to tell me they were going to evaluate in some kind of collections. No city of Tallinn and near Tallinn is one set, nor can the prices of this region be compared to those of Põlva. If transactions are low and rare, individual transactions can make this reference price very high. How do you imagine this in Tallinn and in the vicinity of Tallinn, in the example of residential land?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U546	Thank you for your question. As far as I am aware, I promised that I would check over Tallinn, Nõmme, Pirita and Viimsi there would be enough transactions in this area to assess it using the mass assessment method. Perhaps there are enough transactions to obtain a market value price or a price close to market value when assessing the land. Rather, as far as I know, there is still a problem of scattered settlement, where there are not so many transactions in certain areas. There, I said, about 20% of these land units are valued on the basis of this formula for comparing regions with similar market values, because there are few transactions in this region to obtain this price corresponding to the market value of the land unit. As far as I know, there is no problem in Tallinn and Harjumaa, but I am going to be more specific. In fact, we have very good data on all transactions. Consequently, I can point out how many transactions have been made in Viimsi, Pirita, Nõmme or Tallinn over a certain period of time. I'm gonna find it, we should have the data, the Earth Authority should definitely have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U547	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U548	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We now have the Land Valuation Act and the Land Tax Act on the table, which will lead to an increase in prices. But I remember very clearly that when your government was formed, people were given a message that there would be no tax increase. Then why are you cheating on people like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U549	Thank you. I'm sure we're not cheating on the people. It's like I said, 20 years of unfinished country work. This is not just a political decision to raise taxes. This is because the basis for land taxation is wrong and unfair. It is the duty of the state to make it right and fair. All the mitigation measures in the event of an increase in prices I described, there are quite a few. And there won't be any big price increases in 2024.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U550	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U551	Thank you. Dear Minister, In the Commission, too, we discussed a lot about what these different land taxes will be. There was such an understanding that, unlike the zone-based approach, which is today, the value of each property will be determined separately in the future. Perhaps when we talk about housing plots of different values or farmland of different values, valuable and low value, this land tax distinction does not come out of there through the percentage of land tax, but precisely through this value of land tax. Perhaps in reality this valuable farmland still receives a higher tax. Or did we misunderstand in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U552	Thank you for your question, for your clarification. I didn't mention it was still valued by these transactions. If a part or all of this land unit is a valuable cropland, then it therefore has a higher price according to market transactions. Here comes the basis for taxation and the price of land.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U553	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U554	Thank you. I'm still asking about usury. Quite a few manufacturers are running out of usage. There's a lot of them. Actually, it's a tool. These farmers have given quite a lot of added value, costing, increasing soil fertility. Did you discuss whether it could be at a slightly lower price or that there would be any other advantages?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U555	Thank you for your question. So let's just say we were trying to find the simplest possible solution, not too complicated to make this whole pattern. When we talked about this 10% rate, which can be increased as much as possible, it is also true that there can be no more than 10% increase in usability. We couldn't find a smarter model. As regards the taxation of agricultural land as the owner's land, the municipality has these possibilities within the rates to decide whether they want the lowest possible tax rate on agricultural land, whether they want the lowest possible tax rate on forest land. I think that's it. It is like a local agreement on how a tax is collected there, for which it is collected, whether it is collected more and it creates more public goods than it needs to be created, for example, or less. I am in favour of the widest possible discretion on the ground. I personally would have given more of this decision-making power, but it is a compromise between the various authorities and interest groups. It's really very well prepared. It was on the work plan of the previous government and on the work plan of this government. Who put him there? I did. Who am I representing? The Minister of Public Administration mainly represents the interests of the municipalities. This has been the unfinished work of the state in front of the municipalities for 20 years. Otherwise, perhaps the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Environment should be here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U556	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U557	Thank you. I was inspired by this last sentence, Mr Minister, when you said that the Minister of Public Administration represents the interests of local governments. I'm asking now. Land tax is such a strange tax that it is a state tax, but it actually comes into the local government budget. Was it also discussed that the annual land tax increase of up to 10% should be left to the decision and competence of the local government to guarantee the autonomy of the local government? Some may want to make this increase by 5% and are willing to give up profits by this rate, and some may want a faster increase. We could leave this freedom and autonomy and discretion to local authorities, to regulate the valuation methodology here, but to leave it free. Was it [the story], and would you personally support such freedom?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U558	Thank you for your question. As I said earlier, I would support greater decision-making by local governments, and I would probably also support this greater range in this ceiling. But it has actually been, as I mentioned, an agreement between the political parties of the previous government and the authorities. I went to all the political groups during the previous government to introduce it, and I have also introduced it to the current coalition partner. Let's say that this is a certain agreement, which is here in the draft, but the legislator can always make proposals. So the power to process it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U559	The Riigikogu certainly needs this strength. Members of the Riigikogu currently have no further questions for you. Thank you! Chairman of the Finance Commission, Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U560	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance prepared a draft of 406 first readings, including on 19 October. The draft was presented by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration. He was accompanied by Sulev Liivik, Head of the Department of Financial Management of Local Authorities of the Ministry of Finance, Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department, Helena Lehtis, Adviser to the Ministry of the Environment, Glen Roosaar, Director General of the Land Administration, Tambet Tiits and Adviser to Veronika Ilsjan. The Minister gave the Commission a rather comprehensive overview of the content of this draft, as well as in this large Chamber, and answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission. There too, the main topic was how much this liver rises and how it rises. In general, the Committee on Monetary Affairs had a sense that this tax might start to rise in the medium term in the long term, but at the time of implementation it would rather remain the same or even fall, because land prices have risen, but similarly, this law provides for very large reductions in tax limits, reductions in maximum limits, plus this angle of rise. Following this debate, the Commission took consensual decisions to allow the first reading of the draft to be completed and the deadline for amendments to be set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U561	Can't, Mr. Metsoya, can't. We have two questions on this item. Erki will be out of the remote in a minute, then be good. But Mr. Chef would like to ask. So, Mr. Savisaar, please return to the remote. Mr. Chef would like to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U562	Thank you. If Andres couldn't ask, I'll ask him myself. There was a debate in this Chamber. But did I get it right when we discussed in the Commission that up to 10% is this increase every year, but could also be 3%, 4% or 5% is the increase in the price of the land? The municipality decides this on its own council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U563	Thank you for that question. Indeed, all local authorities can decide for themselves whether to increase or lower this land tax rate. What changes in law is that depending on the purpose of the land, the tax rate will fall up to five times, the maximum that can be applied. So it is quite possible that if the price of the land has not risen five times in this 20 year period, this price may fall, the land tax may fall, and it cannot be increased. Plus this angle of slope. Indeed, if, despite this higher price of land, the land tax should rise, it will not rise by more than 10% a year. But the municipality can also increase it by 1%, not raise it, down by 2%, as it pleases. No landowner should have an increase of more than 10% per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U564	Now there's no more questions. Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, I will open negotiations. Andres Metsoja, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U565	Thank you. Well, the land has always been the wealth of the Estonian people, and probably it will continue to be. But indeed, looking now at where we have come from, from the privatisation period, from the land return period intensively, when the market deals with land and the land changes the owner, and probably should move more into the hands of someone who may need him more as a means of production, then, or in this sense, there is nothing to argue about in a large way. The market value must also be the basis for the price, i.e. the basis for the land tax, and this revaluation must be carried out. But maybe this step again is still too short in that sense, that we really come from such a situation. If we just think about this organisation and the restrictions, we see that we often, as owners, find ourselves in a situation where we buy assets that are actually subject to restrictions. Let's be honest, at the moment of acquisition, there is one price to pay, but once the restrictions are imposed, the price will be completely different. These regulatory restrictions are either national or, in fact, often linked to the right of self-regulation of the municipality, the right to establish a general plan. You don't even have to come up with examples, you take them from yourself. The overall plan, for example, imposes a restriction on certain forests of local authorities that they must not, in principle, carry out clear cutting or says what type of felling is justified in these areas at all. In fact, it uses a restriction on the right of the owner. In this Chamber, I think it is very fair and appropriate to ask that if it is wanted to do so, and if the local government has the right to do so, how it will apply to the owner and whether it will apply at all. Unfortunately, today's situation doesn't work. I think we're going to go a little against the Constitution here, maybe a lot, because private property is sacred and untouchable. I understand that we are following the principle of 'Protect Nature', which has been widely agreed in Europe. Nature conservation in general must be subjected to economic activity. However, if we are to take the next step towards the state land and the KAH areas that have been brought to life in the state forest in particular, they will probably start to expand, step by step, to private property, I think that, in terms of balancing, now and immediately, an instrument should be created to make decisions, even in the context of KAH areas, and one population group says that they need this forest to keep their living environment better or to keep it balanced, it actually has a price. I don't think it should go unmistakably on the owner's wallet. That's where the question arises. If the municipality has the right to impose restrictions in the overall planning process, for example, in the context of land use, it would be very fair for the municipality to provide the holder with an alternative freedom or the right not to pay it in full, as these transactions have been made with the land, because in fact it has already been burdened differently. I think this is a crucial place to think. Perhaps it will be easier to resolve this matter with small steps, because it is a matter of many things, politically sensitive and, especially in today's economic space, also suspicious and hesitant. But we can't leave this part unsolved. Moreover, the question is that when we speak of KAH as such in this Chamber, it is very difficult in legislation to show this point, which we should refer to at all, with which it should be linked. That's another question in this bunch. So, good ambassadors, I do encourage you to look at this issue more closely, because we can maintain and defend our national wealth, which is the founder of the land, certainly one of the country's attributes and cultural backgrounds, while at the same time seeking balancing opportunities in this land tax principle. Thank you and good luck in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U566	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. We have completed the first reading of Bill 406. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U567	We will go to agenda item 13: Draft Law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 421. Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus gives an overview of this. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U568	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to you a draft law amending the State Assets Act, which aims in particular at supplementing the principles of state participation in companies. This is a rather logical continuation of the debate on the basis of the principles of the Green Paper, the White Paper and the participatory policy of the State's participatory policy, which has already been approved by the government. The amendments and additions to the State Assets Act with this draft can be divided into six blocks: strategic governance of state holdings; principles of consideration for participation in state companies; roles and governance principles in the management of state holdings; ensuring the sustainability, accountability and transparency of companies; reporting mechanism for state participation; consolidation of the accounting services of state foundations. First of all, the first important addition to the strategic governance of state participations is the obligation imposed on the government to renew at least once every five years the principles of state participation policies in order to respond to changes in the area of justice and management practices. A well-thought-out and regularly updated participatory policy in this form will certainly support the state's participation in companies and will help to achieve this as intended, and will also guide the legislative design of the governance of holdings. Another important addition is the imposition of the owner's expectations on each company with a majority shareholding in the State and the obligation to renew them at least once every three years. This is already quite a well-functioning practice in itself and, by establishing it through law, systematically helps boards and boards to focus companies' activities and certainly to manage them more effectively by setting strategic sectoral and financial targets. Secondly, we are changing the principles of consideration for the participation of the State in companies. The fact that the general direction and objective of the State is to participate only in companies where it is necessary for reasons of public interest or for strategic consideration shall also be fixed. Earning income through participation in entrepreneurship is not the main objective of the state; it can only be short-term or an additional objective. The timeliness of the objectives, their achievement, and also whether the country continues to be justified in participating, need to be assessed on a regular basis. Such assessment should be carried out every three years in the future. Thirdly, we will continue to look and not only look, but we will also continue to find places where we can simplify the role and governance principles of state ownership. To this end, the draft will provide an opportunity to represent the country at the general meeting of the listed company at the chancellor of the Ministry or the deputy chancellor of the Ministry. In the case of a publicly listed company which has its own nomination committee, where the nomination committee set up under the State Assets Act is also represented, the representative of the State is no longer required to ask for a duplicate position from the so-called "nomination committee' of the State Assets Act for a vote. In order to reduce formal decisions, we give the holder the right to elect, on the basis of a proposal from the nomination committee, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, together with the members of the Supervisory Board, immediately. By means of the draft, we will reduce the volume of data to be provided in the Council candidates' forms and specify the rights of the members of the Supervisory Board to the members of the Management Board when determining the performance fee and the non-compete compensation. Fourthly, the draft also contributes to ensuring that companies operate in a sustainable, responsible and transparent manner. The fact that the State must set an example in its activities and that it must also be public undertakings, through responsible organisation of its activities and relations with stakeholders, and by minimising the negative economic, social and environmental impact of its activities must be natural and self-evident. The reporting mechanism for public participation will be simplified by this draft. In the future, the owners of the holdings shall assess the performance of the companies in the decisions of the general meeting approving the annual accounts and on their basis, the Ministry of Finance shall prepare a consolidated report. It is presented as information now to the Government of the Republic, then to the Riigikogu and also to the National Audit Office. However, in order to reduce the administrative burden, it is proposed to refrain from providing the annual reports of the companies and the reports of the Council's activities to ministries, as the same information must be published by the associations on their websites. Today, the ability to use the Internet is likely to be so advanced that they can be found on these websites. Consolidation of national foundations' accounting services is also part of this draft. This will continue the implementation of the National Reform Action Plan, which provides for consolidation of accounting services to the National Support Services Centre. In conclusion, the amendments made to this draft are still all reflected in the desire to improve the quality of governance of public undertakings and foundations and at the same time reduce the administrative burden involved. This is indeed a long-prepared change. It is based on good international practice, as well as on recommendations from private and public experts. Thank you very much. I would certainly ask for this necessary draft to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U569	Good minister! Members of the Riigikogu want to elaborate some details. Kristen Michal will begin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U570	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister, thank you for this thorough review. Everyone in the hall enjoyed it, and the offices also enjoyed the audition. I'll ask you about a place in the explanatory memorandum. It says here that the plan is "... increased contact with the Boards and the Boards of Directors. An immediate discussion will help to gain a better understanding of the activities, plans and challenges of companies and will allow for a more detailed discussion on topical issues. In this respect, the requirement to submit minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors of companies with State decision-making powers is waived. " It says so. Maybe you'll comment with a few sentences.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U571	Thank you for this very important question. But exactly as it says, and as you have read it vividly, the point of this change is also. Perhaps indeed, simply such a formal transmission of protocols can give an impression of seeming interest and seeming content participation. Instead, it is indeed more appropriate to maintain such communication with the members of the Council and not only to reduce it to the transmission of written minutes. The goal is for the exchange of information to actually take place, not just to move the papers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U572	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U573	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! On the answer to the previous question, I must say that the councils are bodies that defend the interests of owners, and their protocols are very important to the owners. But you said that responsibleness is also important in this bill. I hope that when this law is passed, it could not be the case that the Estonian market currently has a Tootsi wind farm, where Elering and Eesti Energia are fighting and, in fact, we as taxpayers and electricity consumers have lost because a long time ago the wind farm could have been standing up and receiving green energy. If adopted, could such fights be avoided?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U574	Thank you. It would be nice if it wasn't just up to the adoption of this bill. Such exceptionally silly situations, where two public companies are arguing against each other in court, and both of them are creating costs by going to court alone, should, in addition to being pretty embarrassing to observe, avoid any draft laws or changes. This bill does not directly regulate it, of course, cannot regulate it, but I think that our assessment of this situation is quite similar. I would like to settle what you referred to at the beginning of your question. The protocols are certainly an important way of obtaining information, and there is no way this bill will prevent these protocols from being asked. Just protocols, and as has been said, such formal protocols are often not enough to be familiar with all the details and background. This requires more immediate and substantive work and contacts with the members of the Council who, as you said, are representatives of the owner. This is definitely necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U575	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U576	Thank you for your answer. That's a pretty good answer. But I'm just going to ask for a little more. As you said, this law does not really help in the dispute between Elering and Eesti Energia, but I understand that the owner is the state of Estonia and maybe through the Soviets the board members could be called to order. This possibility of responsibility certainly is that this bill will help. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U577	Thank you. It will certainly help, but it was certainly not an idea in the development of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U578	No further questions. Let us also hear the views of the Economic Commission. Kristen Michal's chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U579	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Millions of online viewers! The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu met on Monday, 11 October and discussed this law. Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimannus certainly introduced it no less thoroughly than here. There were also questions in the Commission. It was asked whether, in the future, there could be different disposals and privatisations of state assets or companies on the basis of this documentation or the formulation of the expectations of owners. The minister replied that this would certainly be the subject of analysis being carried out. For example, in the case of State Real Estate, Jaak Aab does this, but in the case of State Real Estate it certainly does not concern symbolic or specialised real estate. Enefit Green was also mentioned. There was some talk about the nomination committees, but they were already mentioned here. There was a little talk about technical nuances. That was pretty much it. It was decided to place the draft on the plenary agenda in 27th, consensual terms, and to propose that the first reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U580	Good chairman of the committee! The members of the Riigikogu have no questions. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading, but before that, let us listen to whether anyone has a wish to make an opinion during the negotiations. No, it doesn't. I'm closing the negotiations. As I said, the proposal is to finish the first reading. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U581	The 14th item is the draft law amending the Pensions Act, the Tax Administration Act and the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 468. Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus gives an overview of this. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U582	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'd like to introduce you to a short bill on retirement pensions. The third pension pillar, which this bill primarily relates to, is more popular in Estonia than ever before, must be said. More than 167000 people have joined it, some 10,000 of them in the last year. So there is every reason to engage in the continuous development of the third pension pillar. The draft submitted to you for discussion will allow, if Parliament approves it, simply and conveniently, starting from the new year, to withdraw money in instalments from the third pillar fund, i.e. to receive a fixed-term pension from the third pillar. In practice, such a possibility to receive a pension from the third pillar has so far been lacking. The money collected by the third pillar pension fund may be transferred to the insurance undertaking to obtain the pension, i.e. to enter into a supplementary funded pension contract for that money. To date, a new application for each payment has to be submitted for direct withdrawal from the pension fund, which means that most of the money has been withdrawn at the same time. Thus, the draft adds a fund pension already known from the second pillar, which is a fixed-term pension paid by the Pension Centre, to the third pillar payout methods by taking money from all the third pillar pension funds where the pensioner invests his or her money. If the details of such a pension plan have already been agreed upon, then in the future everything will be done automatically for the person, i.e. the Pension Centre will also make the entire tax calculation. As with the second pillar fund pension, a person in the third pillar can always stop payments or withdraw money at the same time. The period of retirement is chosen by the person himself. If the time limit is determined on the basis of the average of the years of residence or is longer than that, the payments shall also be exempt from tax. In the case of a shorter period, payments are subject to a 10% tax. The corresponding amendments to the Income Tax Act have already entered into force on 1 January, but the tax exemption has so far been available in practice only for people who have withdrawn money from the third pillar on the basis of an insurance contract. There are also a few amendments to this draft concerning the second pillar. The first of these concerns the payment of the second pillar payments in a situation where the employer has incurred tax debts. The Tax Act amends the procedures for satisfying claims so that, at the first stage, payments of the second pillar of employees are always paid from it when the money is received. The second pillar payments are also not allowed to be deferred. The second amendment, which also relates to the second pillar, concerns the exemption from the tax on investment income, where there is currently no reference to investments made through the second pillar pension investment account. If the investment proceeds from the pension to the investment account, it should not be taxed at the moment, as the tax will have to be paid when the payment from the second pillar takes place. This correction will also be made to the Income Tax Act. Our proposal is that this draft should enter into force on 1 January 2022, i.e. 1 January next year, and amendments to the Tax Administration Act on 1 July next year, i.e. 1 July 2022. Such changes are in front of you. Please support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U583	Good minister! You don't seem to have any questions. Thank you! Now Vice-President of the Monetary Commission, Aivar Kokk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U584	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation for the first reading of the Savings Pensions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Tax Administration Act and the Income Tax Act Amendment Act 468 including 18 October. The draft was presented by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and attended by Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Anneli Valgma, Adviser to the Insurance Policy Department, Kertu Fedotov. The purpose of the draft is to create a more convenient way for people who raise money in third pillar pension funds to withdraw money from funds as a pension when they reach retirement age. The draft establishes the conditions for the third pillar funds to also benefit from the method of payment of the fund pension familiar to the second pillar. The Minister gave an overview of the draft and pointed out that the draft would make it easier to withdraw the funds accumulated in the pension funds of the third pillar once the pension age reached the fund as a pension. The current system is that if you want to receive a third pillar pension in instalments or on a fixed-term basis, you must submit an application each time. It is bureaucratic and it is more in favour of withdrawing money at once. From now on, the person can choose for himself or herself the period during which he or she will be paid out of the third pillar pension fund. Payments shall be exempt if the period is determined on the basis of the average of the years of residence or is longer than that. If the time limit is set shorter, payments shall be subject to a 10% income tax. In principle, the possibility of withdrawing money from the third pillar becomes the same as in the second pillar. The amendments to the draft relating to the second pillar relate to the payment of payments in a situation where the employer has incurred tax debts. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda by 27 October, to appoint a previous speaker to represent the lead committee, to propose that the first reading be closed and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U585	There are no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. We have completed the first reading of Bill 468. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U586	The 15th item is the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 469. Please, Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U587	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am standing before you with a bill, which very many have been waiting for for a long time, and I propose that you turn the average pension into income tax-free in Estonia with the draft submitted by the government. This means such an amendment that we want to amend the current income tax law in such a way that a person of old-age age has a pension, income, an average pension free of tax. This change would concern all people who have reached retirement age, regardless of whether they are retired or continue to work, regardless of their type of pension and the total annual income. Tax-free income would apply from 1 January of the year in which we propose to reach pensionable age and would apply to all taxable income of that person. The calculation of the tax-free income would be such that this tax-free income would be taken into account when the pension is paid by the Social Insurance Institution without the need to submit any additional application. This change would affect about 270000 people in Estonia. 270000, as you can see, is a very large number. These 270000 people, without this proposal before you, would otherwise pay more income tax. Let it also be said that in 2023, if this change were to enter into force on 1 January, the average old-age pension in Estonia is 654 euros and the same amount, 654 euros, according to current forecasts, the tax-free income in one month would also be for all people who reached retirement age. The impact of the draft on the state budget is significant. It will be EUR 92 million in 2023. On the other hand, however, the impact is also very great for all those affected by this change and who will be able to escape the relatively unpleasant tax trap that otherwise affects them. I hope that the draft will receive Parliament's support and we will have the opportunity to implement it from 1 January 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U588	Members of the Riigikogu would like to ask. Ivi Eenmaa begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U589	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! I would say that this is one of those drafts that at least 270000 people in our country are waiting for a long time ago. To some extent, this is perhaps the most effective social draft of this year at all. But my question to you is different. As we know, we have a very complex tax system, these humps and bumps, on which, what and how, I have not personally learned everyone. I know the state will cut taxes and that's it. But do you have any adjustments to how many pensioners, these working pensioners, would benefit if there were a uniform income tax system for everyone, 20%? Or the other way around, how much would the country lose if everyone paid evenly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U590	Thank you. This bill actually creates such a situation for people of retirement age. According to this proposal and its draft, people of pensionable age will always have a tax-free average pension rate. There is no longer such a gradual reduction in the tax-free rate, but it is fixed at the same level as the average pension this year. We'll take 2023. If the average pension is EUR 654 this year, as the current forecast is, this means that, fixed, regardless of the person's other income, regardless of whether he or she continues to work, he or she will in any case be free of income tax for EUR 654. These so-called humps no longer exist for him. This situation will then end for pensioners. When it comes to impact, the lowest impact of this change on people of retirement age earning an average pension is EUR 30 per month compared to the current situation, i.e. EUR 360 per year, which is certainly a very significant gain in income. This is an example of what must certainly be taken up again in all the changes to this system. It is, as inevitably, that those levels, which were established in stages, even if they were established years ago in good faith and with good goals, will at one point also be met by those who are not really high-wagers, but who earn and receive income, for example, well below average wages. So let this be a reminder: by introducing these steps in this form, these steps will at one point also be reached by those initially wanted to support and help.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U591	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U592	Good manager! Dear Minister, I'm glad this bill is on this table. The debate on the national budgets for 2020 and 2021 had exactly the same proposal, but then the Minister of Health and Labour announced on both occasions that computer programs were not yet ready to switch to the average pension tax exemption. Now there's a desire to do it in 2023. Can't we do that in 2022? Maybe Tanel Kiik has made these decisions, and the programs already exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U593	Thank you. I think Tanel Kiik would have taken these decisions if you had presented this draft in the government and Parliament had approved this draft. This is actually one of the examples where there is a consensus between all the political groups in the Riigikogu. I myself have been in opposition, sitting next to you in the bench row, asking questions from then government members. They were also in favour of this change at the time. But, unfortunately, so far, they have only remained words and decisions have not been made. I very much hope that Parliament will approve this proposal, which has finally become a draft. Then, on 1 January 2023, it will also be possible to implement it and really start implementing the system that the average pension is exempt from income tax, just as it was before, before 2016, when pensioners were subject to an additional income tax exemption in such a way that the average pension always remained exempt from income tax. Now we will finally return to this principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U594	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U595	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd go from where Aivar Chef left off. I very much hope that Tanel Kiik has been able to make the Ministry work so that these information systems exist. But why are these 270000 people not expected to meet them as early as 1 January 2022 and to give a minimum of EUR 360 per year? Why are we making these 270000 people wait another year and a little bit more? As I understand it, everything is ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U596	Thank you. You know, we can still do this kind of balling between us here. I could ask you why you didn't do it while you were in the government. If this decision had been taken, if you had come before Parliament with this draft in the government, it would certainly be possible to implement it from 1 January 2022. But you didn't do the job. I don't think that's gonna help us. I think it's important that we finally get this done instead of playing it together right now. As has been said, I do have the understanding that all the political groups in the Riigikogu agree that this is a change that must actually be implemented. So instead of arguing with each other, let's show that it really is, and let's do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U597	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U598	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Of course, we are still talking about why we have to deal with this bill here in the first place. This came after the so-called tax-free income reform and the average pension tax exemption disappeared over the years. But I read in the explanatory memorandum that the retirement age that wins is 88%. Consequently, this tax-free income reform, when we are talking about pensions, won only 12%. 100 minus 88 [is 12]. When this tax-free income reform was carried out, we were told that 80% of the people won this reform. How, then, that by 2023 the number of winners of this major reform will fall so fast? What's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U599	Thank you. The point is that the steps that were then introduced are now biting behind the back of those who were probably not intended to be punished in any way by these steps at the time. But life has progressed in this way, incomes have evolved, pensions have increased and are growing, and by 2023, together with the extraordinary increase in pension, there will be more than 100 euros higher pensions than today. As I said in the introduction or in the answer to a previous question, isn't that a warning reminder that a progressive system might lead to and how ultimately those who are going to suffer from this system are the ones who are most likely to need to be supported. The reason why we decided to start this amendment with pensioners is likely to be known to all of you in this Chamber. There are people of retirement age, pensioners in Estonia, at very high risk of poverty, and 40% of pensioners in Estonia are at risk of poverty. If you start somewhere, they're obviously the group of people you think it's reasonable to start with. You mentioned in your question that this proposal, which we have come before Parliament on the government side, will win 88% of the retirement age. It really is. It is no less important that 99% of working retirement age wins by this proposal. Why is that important? Firstly, I am sure to improve the lives of these people themselves, but on the other hand, I think that everyone who is talking to businesses in any sector at the moment will hear the great shortage of working hands. This means that, in any case, all those people who are ready and whose health allows us to continue working even when they reach retirement age, we should keep them like gold. Unfortunately, the current system is such that it does not motivate people to continue working when they reach pensionable age, but rather motivates them not to do so because of income tax. This amendment and the proposal that you have before you will substantially correct this situation. Indeed, from now on, there is no reason to fear that their income tax-free minimum will decrease if they earn a salary, but the income tax-free minimum will remain fixed at the same level as the average pension of EUR 654 in 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U600	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U601	Good manager! Dear Minister, Once again, thank you for coming here before us with this bill. I fully understand this concern. If one minister has not fulfilled his promises for several years, it will be difficult to introduce a tax exemption from 1 January next year. But I'll make you a suggestion. How do you feel when everyone earning income in Estonia is exempt from income tax at the same rate? Then there is no need to make a new programme, but there is a need to make one move: instead of EUR 500, a slightly larger number will be written there, and this concern would be solved, and we could be happy for more than 600000 people already from 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U602	Thank you. You are the former Chairman of the Monetary Commission. You should know that it is not quite the case that you make such a change, that you do not have to change anything and that implementation will be possible tomorrow. Unfortunately, that is not the case. This, too, requires that the system that you once introduced be quite thoroughly transformed, that the calculation bases be converted and that the systems be transformed in the same way. But you're repeatedly referring to the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige. I must say that the reason I am here before you is precisely that the preparer should have been the Minister of Finance. In 2016, when this change was implemented, correct me if I am wrong, the Minister of Finance was, in my opinion, Sven Sester. Once again, I'm saying that balling this guy won't help us too much. I am pretty sure that the then Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, is also an ardent supporter of this bill today and considers it reasonable that this change can be made and indeed the 270000 Estonian people who are looking forward to this draft and amendment will be assured that the average pension in Estonia is exempt from income tax from 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U603	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U604	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I have a question about the other side, but it has to do with the fact that five years ago, when those steps were introduced, things happened that we're fixing right now. This in itself shows that it is much easier than improving the tax system to make a mistake. Another thing that changed at that point, and that people are very interested in, is the collective declaration of husbands. Many people are looking forward to this change, including myself. I understand it's the kind of thing that can't be done overnight. Can you estimate when it might become topical? I guess it's gonna cost a little money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U605	Thank you. That's a good question. Let's start from the beginning, make the first change, make the first correction, make pensions tax-free for the average pension, and then we can move on. But it is equally certainly a subject that many are waiting for and that is important. Indeed, as in the case of pensioners, as I said, the situation is that in Estonia people of pensionable age are quite at risk of poverty compared to the rest of Europe, it was reasonable to start with a change in average pensions and to implement this change first. Then we'll take the next parts and pieces.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U606	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U607	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I actually welcome this bill and hope that it will materialise. However, I would really see that this degree could be a little more ambitious and, in 2023, by 1 January, the tax-free minimum could be as high as that that would really help not only those 270000 pensioners but also those who work. Have you considered this? Or why didn't you think it was necessary to write it in here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U608	Thank you. Look, it's interesting that these good thoughts will come to you nine months after you have successfully made opposition from the government. However, you had a long time and opportunity to carry out all these proposals. As such, we have not yet discussed this proposal. Why we considered it necessary in the government union to start by making pensions exempt from income tax, I have already explained this a few times. Indeed, the reason was that pensioners are at considerable risk of poverty in Estonia. The wish was to start with the most difficult group in Estonia in this sense. So I guess we'll be able to get the rest of the income tax system fixed with you at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U609	No further questions. Thank you! Now it is time for us to listen to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U610	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Finance Committee prepared the first reading of the Bill amending the Income Tax Act at 469 on 10 October. During the meeting, the draft was presented by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, together with the Head of the Ministry's Tax Policy Department, Lemmi Oro, and advisor Anneli Valgma, as well as counsellor of the Insurance Policy Department, Kertu Fedotov. Questions were answered by Members of the Commission. The draft is not going to refer, the Minister gave a very good overview of it in this Chamber as well. In the Commission, we had a question of how average old-age pensions are defined. We learned that it will be introduced by a decision of the Government of the Republic for the next so-called year, that it is not directly related to the statistical average. However, in the Commission we came to a common understanding that, from 2023 onwards, all old-age pensioners will be subject to progressive income tax, but only two-step income tax. We must also agree with Mr Eenmaa that hundreds of thousands of Estonians have been waiting for this change a long time ago. I think that, given the enthusiasm in the hall, this system could, of course, go ahead and really apply it to all people and maybe make these steps more than two. As a result of this debate, the Commission has reached consensus decisions to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft and to set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, i.e. 10 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U611	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. First, on behalf of the central fraction, Kersti Sarapuu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U612	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, as the Minister of Finance said, and as the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said and also heard voices from the floor, this draft is very, very welcome. So thank you so much for bringing it here to the Riigikogu! The exemption of an average pension from income tax is certainly the right step. In fact, this could have been done earlier, but so far, our priority has been an extraordinary pension increase. Let it be repeated once again that the income tax exemption from 1 January 2023 will leave EUR 370 more per year for people of old age. This is an important support for the elderly, given that many have to cope with daily expenses alone. The objective of the income tax exemption for an average pension is to reduce poverty among the elderly and to improve their livelihood and well-being. Estonian pensions are repeatedly lagging behind those in Europe, and many pensioners here live at risk of poverty, especially pensioners living alone. The dignity and coping of the elderly remains an important issue that deserves greater attention from the country. No one should question that. The current situation has affected the confidence of many pensioners. Clearly, the elderly in the high-risk group need greater support from the state. I am pleased to note that all persons who have reached retirement age have the right to apply the tax-free income of old-age persons, regardless of their pension status and the type of pension. Thus, persons who have deferred their pension can also deduct the tax-free income of old-age persons. It is important to stress here that the tax exemption will no longer be reduced as the pension increases or, for example, if the person who reaches retirement age is ready to continue working. The amendments do not have a negative impact on any person who has reached retirement age. Given that the average old-age pension is expected to reach EUR 654 per month in 2023, this year 88% of the pensionable age, 99% of the working age and 85% of those not in employment will benefit from tax changes. Consequently, the target group is very large. Finally, I would like to point out that we are all still standing up for increasing the income of the elderly, in addition to the income tax exemption, by means of an extraordinary increase in pensions and an increase in the allowance for a single-living pensioner. In view of the exceptional increase from EUR 20 on 1 January 2023 and the annual indexations, the average pension is projected to rise to EUR 654 on 1 April 2023. The contribution of a retired person living alone will also rise from EUR 115 to 200 in 2022. This is a grant to be paid in October, which is received by 80000 people in the Circa. Let's continue on the same wave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U613	Let's continue the negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Reform Party, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U614	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course we will! And let us also recall why we have to deal with this bill here in the first place. Well, the reason is that we need to improve the consequences of tax-free income reform. Those who are now saying that they themselves, or at least the parties to which they belong, could have done so a long time ago when the tax-free income reform announced in late autumn 2016 made the tax-free rate dependent on the amount of the taxpayer's annual income. In the course of this tax reform, the so-called reform, the previous additional tax exemption for pensions was abolished. Compared to the previous system and the new tax-free income reform, it can be seen that working pensioners lost the most. They lost even more than ordinary employees compared to the old system. Let us remind you that this reference point was at EUR 1700 for ordinary workers, but working pensioners had a lower reference rate at EUR 1330. So let's talk about it. Colleagues who worked in the previous Riigikogu will surely remember that the average pension was just over 400 euros a month when this progressive income tax reform was carried out. Already then, there was a large number of pensioners who were unpleasantly surprised when they had to start paying income tax on their pension. They, I remember, were about 10% of the pensioners back then. But what were we told? We were told that 80% of Estonia's people were said to have won the new tax system. We have now heard that the pensioners who have won this new system have only 12% left to date, but this legislative amendment that we have on this table will help to reduce the tax burden on 88% of pensioners. The regressive tax-free rate of EUR 500 has still been in place for many years, stands very firmly and does not want to move anywhere. At the same time, the average pension has already risen to 552 euros with an extraordinary increase in pension. It is now the case that, as a result of this tax-free income reform, you have to pay income tax on the part of your pension exceeding EUR 500. If, by 2023, the average pension rises to EUR 654 with an extraordinary pension increase, the amount of income tax to be paid is EUR 154, which means EUR 30 and 80 cents per month, which means that a large part of the annual pension increase would become income tax. In fact, this has also been the case in the meantime, since this step-by-step tax change was introduced and the tax-free income reform was carried out. This bill helps pensioners very much. Of course, it must be stressed once again that this is also very important from the point of view of working pensioners. Indeed, just as in the reform of this tax-free income, I still remember it from the previous composition, millions of euros and millions of euros went to the Tax and Customs Board all the time to make these developments, it will also cost something if it needs to be redeployed. I think 1.6 million was even that amount. One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U615	Please! One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U616	It goes to the Social Insurance Board and the Tax and Customs Board for the development of information systems. So this system now brings back costs and the Ministry of Finance has had to take this into account. Then it is that we can implement this bill from 2023. But the Reform Party Group will certainly support and support the process and enforcement of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U617	On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U618	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable ministers! We have to disprove some of the truths that are said at this table. When 500 euros were exempt from income tax in 2017, the pension was slightly more than 400 euros, i.e. the pensions were average pensions, income tax exemption and income tax were taken from the salary, but not from the pension. People, of course, combined pensions and income taxes, and then there were problems. At that point, indeed, people under 1200 euros had 500 euros of income tax free. There were over 70% of these people. Just by 2023, the years go by and it is very good that the Estonian economy has both been working well, both the average wages and the average pensions have risen. They said, "Why didn't you do it?" I have to admit that I myself was at the budget negotiating table, and both times the Minister of Social Affairs, today Minister of Health and Labour, said that it would take a year. I remember being here as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, answering the exact same questions from the Reform Party. I had to say yes, this year cannot, but it was promised that the computer program would be completed next year and then the average pension would be tax-free. It went a year, we sat in the budget negotiations again in September, and it was the same. In this sense, the Reform Party must be thanked that the Reform Party was able to break the Centre Party, and this bill is on this table. Thank you very much. If today's review is simply that the entire economy has improved, the revenue of the state budget has increased, and the concern is that the third year will be full and still has not been able to complete this programme, then the only solution is that, from 1 January next year, these 230000 pensioners will receive an average pension exemption from income tax, which is not 654 next year, as is believed here, and the previous speakers have said here, with the exception of the Minister. The minister said nicely that 2023 would rise. In fact, 2023, if everything goes as discussed in the RES and hoped that an extraordinary pension increase would come up there, EUR 20, then it will rise as it is. The solution is very simple. In previous elections, the Isamaa Party promised EUR 500 tax-free to all low-wage earners and it worked. It could now be an average pension, i.e. nearly EUR 600 tax-free for everyone next year. This computer program issue is not very complicated at all. It will take a few days to change one interface, but no more so that, from 1 January, a change to this programme could certainly be made. I think everyone would be happy. There would no longer be an argument that 500 euros. In 2017, it was a good number, and now it's really small, but 600 euros is still... Look how good, from 2023, 654 euros could be put up, every year would rise. The coalition would be happy and the opposition would be pleased that the opposition can do this with the coalition's hands. I thank the Reform Party once again for being able to force the Central Party to do so. However, on the other hand, I propose that, from 1 January next year, both pensioners and all taxpayers should be exempt from income tax on the amount of the average pension, i.e. nearly EUR 600. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U619	Does the Minister of Finance have a desire to react? No. Then we're done negotiating. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 469. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U620	The 16th item is the draft law amending the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, which is number 442 SE. First reading is underway, and Maris Lauri, or the Minister of Justice, will introduce it by the government. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U621	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The aim of the draft amendment to the Competition Act and related amendments to other laws is to change the current model of the Competition Authority financing. Before explaining a specific change, I will take a brief look at the activities of the Competition Authority, as this will allow for a better understanding of the need for change. The tasks of the Competition Authority can currently in principle be divided into two. Firstly, competition market surveillance includes an assessment of the admissibility of unlawful agreements, the misuse of market power and the control of concentrations, i.e. concentrations. In addition, market analyses are carried out to assess the application of free competition in different sectors. In its role as an economic regulator, the Competition Authority deals with the price regulation of monopoly companies, regulates and organises the functioning of markets, carries out market surveillance, issues licences. In this role, the Competition Authority operates in the following areas: electricity, natural gas, district heating, public water supply and sewerage, mail, rail, ports and airports. In recent years, the Competition Authority has been added and in the near future a number of new, additional tasks have been added. First of all, one major change is coming with the transposition of the ECN+ Directive, which strengthens the powers of the Competition Authority, including in particular in the handling of prohibited agreements and also in litigation. This draft is under development and will soon go to the coordination circle. Compliance with commercial practices prohibited in food supply chains is a new supervisory sector, leading to an increase in the volume of work. And, of course, we need to hire new people to analyse the market and then monitor it. The amendments to the Electricity Market Act result from a number of and increasing tasks of the economic regulator, which are very much linked to the introduction of renewable energy and, more generally, to the development of this market. In the area of regulation, additional tasks have also come from synchronisation of electricity networks, as well as from rail and port law, for example. If we look at the processes that have taken place, there has been an increase in the number of concentrations in the field of competition, as well as more and more litigation and, of course, the latter need thorough preparation, because the other party to the competition disputes is generally well funded and also manned. The Estonian Competition Authority is small, with 45 employees and a budget of less than 2 million euros. In Latvia, for example, there are 170 employees, 245 in Lithuania, and a budget of 6.7 million and 9.1 million respectively. I would like to point out that the volume of the competition authority's work does not depend at all on population numbers, as there is usually one undertaking operating in monopoly markets, regardless of whether the population is 1.3, 1.6, 2 or 5 million. The Estonian Competition Authority has been very modestly funded in the European context. If we want better competition supervision and a stronger market regulator, the Competition Authority must be better funded and manned. So far, the Estonian Competition Authority has been funded from the state budget. Four other countries from 24 European countries use the same method of funding: Norway, France, Germany and Slovakia. Three of them are considerably richer than Estonia. Twelve countries finance competition monitoring through supervisory fees and seven countries use a mixed scheme. Now for the new funding scheme. According to the draft, Estonia will also switch to the mixed system. This means that regulatory tasks will be financed from supervisory fees in the future, but the control of concentrations and prohibited agreements in the context of market surveillance competition will continue to be financed from the state budget. Supervisory fees are imposed on monopoly companies, i.e. electricity and gas networks, district heating networks, public water supply and sewerage companies, universal postal service providers, ports and airports. The amount of the fee depends on the administrative burden. In those companies where price coordination takes place proactively, the remuneration is 0,2% of the revenue from sales. This would apply to district heating, electricity, natural gas, water and postal companies. And I would like to point out that this would not really apply to the monopoly markets, for example in the electricity market, to electricity producers, but to electricity networks. In the case of ex post price follow-up, the supervisory fee would be 0,02%, which would apply to airports and ports. These rates are thus established by law, which ensures that this rate is controlled and prevents possible undertakings from being affected by supervisory charges and also excludes inefficiencies that may result from excessive revenues. As regards the possible increase in administrative burdens, this increase remains modest. This is because the supervisory fee is determined on the basis of the same data as those provided in the price applications. The data must be submitted once a year, by 15 July, following the submission of the annual report. Payment is then made on the basis of the invoice submitted, i.e. once a year. The invoice is issued by 30 August and there is one month to pay, i.e. it will be due by the end of September. It must be acknowledged that technical solutions can certainly be improved, as well as data collection, i.e. more modern IT solutions can be created. This, of course, requires additional funding. However, with current financial resources, such a fundamental change is not possible. The supervisory fee may be added to the price of the service. So there will be no cost for regulated companies, but it will be for consumers. But the cost is still modest. According to the analysis, for example, the cost of water and sewerage, electricity and district heating for a family of three people living in a three-room apartment would increase by a total of 14.2 to 33.3 cents per month, or 0.17 to 0.26%. The costing, of course, depends on a particular service, for example, the price of water would increase with a supervisory fee of 0.2%, i.e. if the cost of a cubic metre was 1.5 euros, the price would increase by 0.3 cents. So a single price increase for water would be achieved if more than 3 cubic metres of water was consumed, which could be about one person per month of consumption. The electricity bill would increase by 0.09%, due to the increase in network charges. The other components of the electric bill wouldn't grow. It is estimated that it could be 8 cents a month on average. Gas consumers have 4.3% of the population in Estonia, the figures would increase by 0.09%, or 3 cents, according to previous year's figures. For other services, the increase would be even lower. What would change as a result of the funding of the Competition Authority? The total amount of the supervisory fee is forecast to be EUR 1,6 million next year. That would be the financing of the economic regulator's activities. The other party to the competition authority's activities, i.e. competition supervision, remains financed from the state budget, amounting to EUR 1,1 million. Overall, the state budget funding would decrease by EUR 900000. At the same time, the funding of the Competition Authority would increase by EUR 700000: more EUR 200000 for competition monitoring and EUR 500000 for the operation of the economic regulator. This change will also allow the Competition Authority to successfully carry out new tasks, to improve the quality of its activities and to increase the efficiency of its work. Of course, other efforts are being made by the Competition Authority to be successful, effective and effective. This concerns both the restructuring of support services currently in progress and the wider use of IT solutions. In the longer term, for example, it is also important to use large data to create a better analytical capacity to identify possible distortions of competition in different markets. More high-quality market analyses are essential so that the Competition Authority can focus on problem markets and locations. The analyses shall also provide good background material for other regulatory changes, including legislative changes, where appropriate. Of course, there are those who are interested in the fact that the Competition Authority is underfunded and underbuilt and unable to carry out its tasks successfully. Hidden agreements that divide the market or agree price levels, as well as monopolies that fail to manage their activities, are a burden on the economy. Monopolisticism and the situation on the oligopolistic market, with few players, are often accompanied by lower economic efficiency and less innovativeness, technological lag, higher prices for consumers and poorer goods or services. This is, of course, when market control and regulation are inadequate. In order to avoid the negative consequences listed above for society as a whole and for consumers, the Competition Authority must be strong, supported by adequate funding, people and competences. Changing the funding of the Competition Authority is an important component that makes this agency stronger and thus supports the improvement of the competitive situation in Estonia. I therefore expect the Riigikogu to support this bill. Thank you. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U622	And they're gonna be started by the Rocky Hard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U623	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I must say that this is one of the worst laws this year in the Riigikogu. Why is he bad? As you say, a penny from one family and cents from another family, and so comes a million pounds of money, which is state money, but the other way round it's family money. We all know how much family utilities are rising this year. And come today to raise the utilities even more, when we in the Riigikogu and your government are wondering how we can get the utilities down, how we can get the electricity down, what we're going to do, it just doesn't seem to me to be a good option. Wouldn't the government find this EUR 100 million [from others] for the Competition Authority and we would continue with today's system instead of putting this burden on the people to collect cents?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U624	Thank you for your question. Well, it's always a question of choices. Other measures are in order to address prices, some of which have indeed risen very sharply and rapidly at the moment, in order to compensate or contain this price increase. There are support measures that will be discussed by the government at tomorrow's meeting and which I hope will receive support. If [these measures] require legislative changes, they also come before the Riigikogu. This bill deals with a long-term view, it deals with ensuring that we have a strong Competition Authority. A strong competition authority will ensure in the market that we have honest commercial practices, that there is no monopolisticism, that consumers do not get rid of ears that we hear from time to time. The competition authority actually brings more into families than it takes these few cents. Believe it! Ensuring competition is the best way to curb price increases. The monopolies are very interested in keeping the Competition Authority as weak as possible. It is their passionate desire, because a strong opponent, a strong control is one that does not allow them to raise prices. The Office will see through when price requests are not sufficiently substantiated, if price fixing is made on the market, which you probably have heard about. There's a lot of speculation that some or others involved are doing this. In order to combat this, legislation is needed, but the force that implements the legislation is also needed. And this is the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U625	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U626	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will use your expression, which you used, to answer the question of Mr Kalvi Tough: that in fact, this law is the kind of law that pulls the skin of a consumer over his ears. It is very well written here that companies pay the Competition Authority a supervisory fee. In fact, businesses do not pay, consumers pay. And the sums you've counted here aren't cents. If I remember correctly, in the case of electricity, these amounts were quite large, it was EUR 16 on the three-room apartment you mentioned. I cannot accept formalising this law in this form, nor can I agree to supporting it, because I have not heard either that the Competition Authority is, in principle, unabated. He's doing his job very well. Please tell me why you want to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U627	Thank you. I will not repeat what I said in reply to the previous question. But I would correct your mistake. I said very clearly in my report: the electricity bill would increase by 8 cents a month for the average consumer 8 cents a month! For this eight cents, he gets the fact that the prices of electricity components have really been revised, weighed, rated by a competent reviewer. If adequately funded, it will ensure that the Competition Authority also looks very closely at all other regulated prices and does not allow monopolies to raise these prices unduly. That would actually take much more from [the consumer]. This can also be verified by the Competition Authority when agreements are made on the market. All kinds of stories have been told about agreements in the food market, agreements in the fuel market, agreements in the construction market. This is where the Competition Authority has to get to. Yeah, the Competition Authority has done very well, but their abilities have limits. Forty-five people don't make it all the way around when there's more and more responsibilities. And more will come. What is more, these monopolies, those of the bad guys who are being sued, [are] very well-hiring lawyers. To do this, too, we need a much greater capacity to succeed in litigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U628	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U629	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also ask a little bit about the same area that my colleagues asked about earlier. Here's what I'm asking. According to the draft, it is not considered reasonable for users of rail transport to pay a competitive fee, but it is considered reasonable for consumers of public utility services to pay it. Why should rail users not pay this and money should be charged to consumers of utilities? Don't say that this money comes from the state on the railroad, it's not very credible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U630	Thank you. I find it very difficult to answer your question when you denied me the answer, which is actually the right answer. The point is that both railway companies are known to belong to the state and receive subsidies from the state. Perhaps it would be an increase from one country's pocket to another. And it must be taken into account that, in this sense, other activities are financed from the state budget, not only in this area. But certainly, if you feel that there should also be a monitoring fee for rail, then you can make this proposal. The original version of the bill contained it, but after the round of coordination it was decided to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U631	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U632	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. This isn't the best bill now. If you look at only such things as how much coordination [proposals made] have been taken into account and how much has not been taken into account, it is very obvious here that only four out of almost 30, 27, I think, were accounted for. Eat the grass, don't count! I quote the Confederation of Employers who says: 'In addition, a large part of the new tax burden would fall on the energy sector, where the tax burden is already rising very quickly due to European climate policy. The supervisory fee would speed up the increase in the price of indoor heating combined with electricity, putting residents and companies in a difficult position. " And you say, or your officials say, " Eat grass, don't count. ' Why? I stress: there are 27 such proposals that you have sent to the trash bin.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U633	Thank you. First of all, we certainly haven't told anyone that they should chew the grass. So don't put such insulting expressions in my mouth or in the mouth of officials. Secondly, there are certainly different views among the various parties involved. In my opinion, I have explained, and there is also a very detailed justification in the explanatory memorandum, for the need for supervisory fees and for what balance or what choices we have. Will you raise the fees to ensure that our Competition Authority is properly funded to be strong, or will you accept that the capacity of the Competition Authority will be weakened due to increasing tasks? His ability to control prices, his ability to make sure that there are no illegal agreements in the market, can be weakened and the perpetrators can always win in court because we do not have enough competent people, we do not have the ability to do all this. I think that the other half is considerably outweighing the first half that these prices are going to rise. And, as I said, this increase in supervisory fees is generally very modest. And if the [general] price increase really is very burdensome under certain circumstances, and this is burdensome because prices have risen very sharply this year, then analysts say that the electricity price should start to fall next year at the latest in spring, so maybe we will get to the same low position as they have been in the meantime. So perhaps these steep price increases could be compensated for in a targeted way, i.e. when they do. If we always postpone solving complicated problems, we will not solve them. It's, yeah, one choice too, but I don't think it's the right way. If there is a problem, it has to be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U634	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U635	Thank you, good vice chairman! Good minister! Don't get me wrong, at least not me. The competition authority must be strengthened. That is what must be strengthened! But the question is whether, at this time, we need to change our concept, which we share with France, Germany and Slovenia, as you mentioned. We have it from the state budget and monitoring fees. Let's not change the system! We'll find a million more! We'll find a million more! I think that my colleagues and I are going through the budget of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we are going to find this million, we are going to move it to the Competition Authority with amendments and we are going to do it. Let's not deal with this on this day when people are already increasing utilities and they say that you see, the Riigikogu has adopted another bill that will increase our costs. That's why it's a bad law today. But I also had a question, that was an opinion. We are not opposed to the need to increase the capacity of the Competition Authority. But let's not change the system, put more money on it. The question is this. Companies must collect this money from the final consumer and then carry it forward. What are their costs? Do they also have to do computer programs, or how much do they have to spend on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U636	Thank you. First of all, if you answer your statement, I'm sure you can always find money from the budget, but it has to be taken at the expense of another thing. If you want to take this money from the Ministry of Justice's budget for another line of business, please make this change to the state budget law. I didn't find a way. I found that if we weaken the courts, the prosecutor's office, take money from the prisons, transfer money from the Competition Authority, or from the patent office, I don't know what we're gonna do. There is no possibility, or, let's say, the possibility of cuts in this area is extremely limited due to the fact that it is predominantly labour costs and, to a very large extent, property costs. And real estate are buildings that cannot be used for other purposes, such as prison buildings or court buildings, which have little access to other uses. But if you have any good, smart ideas, go ahead. Surely you can put forward proposals to raise some kind of tax. I thought this solution was better. All the more so because, as I said in my speech, those countries that finance it from the state budget, France, Germany, Norway, are rich countries, indeed very rich countries. They have this ability, and then let them do it. Unfortunately, we don't just have that ability. As regards the possible increase in costs for companies, these are indeed very few [companies]. As I said, most of these companies use regulated prices and, in order to regulate prices, they are anyway providing data to the Competition Authority, and that is precisely the basis for the calculation. There's nothing more they need to submit. Indeed, there is a slight increase in the burden at the airport, where I think it is now 0 so that it does not receive any remuneration at all and in the ports. However, as I said, it is certainly possible to make suitable IT solutions and the increase in load is not so great that it would require a great deal of action. These data must be provided once a year, let us say, immediately after the annual report has been submitted. This information may need to be provided in more detail there, and it concerns some companies. But for the most part, it is based on the data that is presented and collected anyway. So there's no extra load.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U637	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U638	Good manager! Dear Minister, Looking at and reading this bill, I wonder how it relates to our activity-based budget. If we have the objective of reducing costs, reducing the number of employees and making [work] more effective, we will, on the contrary, try to raise taxes again. And when it comes to the fact that the Competition Authority is even better able to assess whether prices are correct or not, every time I look at the electricity bill in my home, I see that one state company, Elering, has already reduced network charges three times in recent years. Or not Elering, but Electric. At the same time, Elering, the sole operator of the electricity transmission service in accordance with the Electricity Market Act, has constantly increased the price. My question is that the Competition Authority should monitor both public undertakings, both of which should fall. But it won't! We have the goal of raising home expenses all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U639	Thank you. Undoubtedly, the aim of the Competition Authority to be as small as possible can be to do as little work as possible. But in this case, we would certainly get much higher prices, and not only on a regulated market, but above all on a unregulated market with monopolistic agreements. Price regulation is known to be based on laws that specify precisely which components must be monitored. As a general rule, prices are subject to a maximum threshold above which no increase may be made. This is what the Competition Authority evaluates, analyses, looks at these numbers. Perhaps as an example, which is probably forgotten by very many, the dispute over Tallinn Water, which ended a few years ago, fits. At the time, the price was set for Tallinn Vee, the regulation was a little different, the municipal level went. When it went to the Competition Authority, he did an analysis and found that these prices were high. As a result, as a result of litigation, prices fell in Tallinn Water. And this concerned the other regions of Tallinn as well as the surrounding area. Water prices fell pretty good. Competition supervision or price control does not always mean that prices should fall. Because if the input components increase, there is justification for increasing prices. However, the role of the Competition Authority in this pricing exercise is to ensure that the monopoly does not unduly increase prices and above the level that is allowed. There must always be control on the monopoly market. If you leave the player simply to act, you can reasonably be sure that the majority of them sooner or later will, in fact, all sooner or later, start turning things in their favour. So if you really want to keep home expenses under control, you should be interested in the Competition Authority being strong so that it can be a serious opponent of the monopolies and, if necessary, a serious partner so that the price increase does not come or, if it does happen, the price increase will be limited and not taken out of the ceiling, but entirely legitimate. It's essential. We are also putting in place the need to control non-regulated markets. The Competition Authority has acted, but this is where I believe that the activities of the Competition Authority should be directed much more in the near future. These complaints and reproaches that we read in the press, perhaps we often think about it ourselves, and you yourself have, from time to time, expressed something in one area or another. It needs analysis, it needs evaluation. Whether these agreements exist and if they exist, they must be dealt with, punished as necessary. And if there aren't, you have to prove that they don't exist. The market must be examined, analysed and, if necessary, put in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U640	Ladies and gentlemen, it is late, but I would like to remind you that the question should fit in one minute. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U641	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I asked you about electricity, you read out [more cents to come]. But in fact, electricity, district heating, natural gas, public water supply and sewerage, postal service, in addition to aviation and port services, this list is quite long. I actually have two questions. First of all, why can't these sums still be paid only, let's say, by the service provider that's being monitored? It is now being demanded from the consumer, which in fact does not give any motivation at all. And the second question is, when your government came together, you said publicly that our taxes would not be increased. Now, for the second time, I ask this question: why are you cheating on the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U642	Thank you. These supervisory fees may be added to the price, they need not be added. It is relatively likely that, for example, for ports and airports, where it is estimated that a supervisory fee of EUR 25700 will be charged in both areas, based on an analysis, without any price increases for consumers. And I think the same thing can happen to a lot of people. Previously, an example of water was given. Why did I just point at water? The price of water rises by 0.3 cents per cubic metre. And why did I point to three cubes? My water consumption is three cubic metres. For me, the water fee would be 0.9 cents. I don't know how to put it on my account, but we'll see. So I think there's definitely a place for every company to choose how it makes its own pricing. Once again, there is an opportunity to add it, not an obligation to add it. It's a place of choice. And to your rhetorical question, I would like to reply rhetorically: when will you stop asking pointless questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U643	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U644	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd settle one fact. Indeed, investments in water and sanitation still come mainly from the public sector, but it does not matter whether they are from the state budget or come from the pockets of the municipalities or whether the European Union is helping. It's coming from the public sector anyway, and it could be like this equal sign between here and there. Rather, the question is that the Confederation of Employers has, in fact, also considered the draft rather negatively and said that internal efficiency should be found. If we now look at Table 2, which compares the number of employees per GDP, the Estonian coefficient is 0.89. Rather not the most effective indicator. For example, it is 0.14, in Norway 0.17, in Sweden 0.27 and in Finland 0.34. It is 0.89 in Estonia. Which has prevented really... Or have you analyzed this for efficiency?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U645	I'm sorry! Before we go to the answer, the procedural question has arisen. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U646	Thank you! I mean, Mr President, I see a very extraordinary thing in this Chamber where some Minister of the Government of the Republic arrogantly says stop asking pointless questions. May I remind you, Maris Lauri, justice... or who you are, I don't even know who you are. They don't ask pointless questions in this hall. This is where you have to answer, but not here to be smart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U647	Yeah. And now please ask Heiki Hepner's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U648	Indeed, this table shows how many employees there are in the economy per GDP. Your problem is that this number is small. [[Heiki Hepner explains something about the hall.]] Again, then. The Competition Authority needs professional people to carry out its activities. Professionalism also depends on the kind of people we can hire there, the cost of these salaries. More professional people in general require higher fees. If you look at this budget number now, it is very modest. If you look, yes, at this [number of employees] per GDP, it can be interpreted as not being good enough. But maybe we should look at these things together. And the other thing is definitely that, in my speech, I also pointed out that in the monopolistic markets, regardless of the size of the market, there is often one object that is regulated: one electricity grid, one sewerage, figuratively speaking. You don't put a lot of sewers in there. Indeed, in Germany there are certainly much more sewerage networks. But let's just say that in the range of 1 squared of 2 million, 3 million, that's not the one-to-one connection. In a sense, the Estonian Competition Authority, as well as very many other agencies and the Riigikogu, maybe this indicator of inefficiencies in a certain sense is due to the fact that we are small. The scale effect is very difficult to achieve. And this could be exactly the same for this indicator. In order to be more successful, we really need good people to act. And once again, there's more to go. We need a wide range of specialists to deal with this. We need them to develop better, more successful IT systems that we can use. With this, we can make the system more efficient. [As regards] the opportunities that the Competition Authority is given by law, I have mentioned a draft that comes for preparation and which should make the Competition Authority much more robust, they expect us to have very good people working there. You don't get very good people with bad money. And there must be enough of these people to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U649	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U650	Good manager and minister! There is a lot of these "unreasonable" organisations, the Gas Association, the Port of Tallinn, the Employers' Confederation, who are asking you and you are sending them to lengths. [In addition to] us, meaningless ambassadors. But I quote to you the pointless opinion of the Estonian Gas Association: the planned regulation aims to increase the tax burden on the gas consumer even further, and it is covered by a tax, and next year it will be 47%. They propose that the EUR 70 million [from electricity and gas excise] could be allocated to the Competition Authority by a million or a little more next year. We don't mind. But my key question is when, as a senseless minister of justice, you will release your seat to a meaningful minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U651	Thank you. I understand that with your background, you should have an excellent ability to understand exactly what I said. I said to a member of the Riigikogu, Mr Grünthal, that his question was pointless, and I said that it was a rhetorical question that it was impossible to answer. I have not said that the members of the Riigikogu are meaningless. I haven't told you about any institution whose names you listed are meaningless. Don't put things in my mouth that I haven't said. That's not nice. And I don't think it's dignified of a member of the Riigikogu. So I don't think it's necessary to resign. I think I have a lot to do, including the adoption of this law, so that the Estonian Competition Authority is really strong, so that the monopolies or those entrepreneurs who are passionately keen to share the market, so that they can raise prices with pleasure, they can put their heads in order to control them a little. But surely those who have different goals have different desires. But then it would be nice to say frankly that there is an increase in monopoly pricing, that there would be no public control over prices, that there would be secret market agreements, that there would be higher prices for consumers. Definitely! It's also a lobby that I'm sure exists. It would be very nice to see the brave ones who fight for them and do so under their own name.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U652	This very dignified and meaningful parliamentary debate has raised a procedural issue. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U653	Yes, Mr Grünthal is pointless with his questions, but I would remind you that, as your minister, I did not answer my question, which was presented this time by a pointless gas union. And I stressed why it's pointless: since the overwhelming majority of their suggestions and questions have been sent to the trash. That's why they're pointless in your eyes or in the eyes of your officials. But you didn't answer my question skilfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U654	It wasn't a procedural question. The procedure applies to the conduct of the sitting and should be answered. But if the minister wants to comment, I'll give it a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U655	No, I have not told anyone about the proposals that they are pointless. I thought you asked me when I would resign. I replied that I am not resigning now, and I am not going to resign before the matter, behind the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U656	Got it. There's another question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U657	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I believe that in this Chamber, I think all the questioners stressed that no one is arguing about the importance of strengthening the Competition Authority. We are opposed to the situation that if the country wants to do something better, it is not the company that is looking inside, but the first thing is to inject money into it. The best example of injecting money into the competition authority or raising the price is the [services] of Eesti Post and the return of the press. The price of home delivery will be increased for food and food, resulting in a decrease in the number of leaves and a decrease in the quality of home delivery. But I don't see the Competition Authority anywhere to go and make it clear whether or not the costs of returning home are actually correct in Eesti Post. Our wish is for the Competition Authority to be very strong, but it would do its job so that ordinary citizens would benefit from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U658	Time, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U659	Thank you. You certainly know that if the prices for universal postal services were market-based, they would be significantly higher than they are today. As we know, as I repeat, the Competition Authority sets limits, maximum limits. The fact that the company has decided in some areas to keep prices low, as is probably the country's desire, and in another area you will act a little more market-based, is also an option. And as far as I know, we also have distributors, not just the Estonian Post. Surely this market also needs to be analysed, and this market also needs to be monitored and evaluated where, what and how. It's a complicated market, no argument at all. It also requires competence, and it also requires people to appreciate it. I do not see that if we take people down or say that you can cope with these additional tasks, then you can get the job done. For example, the same step that will be taken and monitored by the food market will monitor the food supply chains in order to [discover] the use of prohibited commercial practices over it was a major discussion. Some said it would take one or two people. The Competition Authority estimated that these people would be needed much more. It is now agreed that three and a half people, or jobs, will be tried. How much really is needed, we do not know, because this is a completely new area of supervision. If the agency is given successive tasks without adding resources, this resource will be taken from elsewhere at the expense of others. These [tasks] have been included in the electricity market and have been included in the rail and port sectors. At one point, it just doesn't happen to be that we're putting on more tasks, but it doesn't give us a resource. Once again, there is certainly a choice to be made: whether there is a need for stronger supervision of competition, to look at and monitor markets and to be able to be able to do so, or whether there is a competition authority that has a great deal of tasks, but who simply does not have the strength and the ability to deal with all things or at least to deal with them well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U660	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U661	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I also have concerns about the capacity of the Competition Authority. Looking at the activities of our fuel companies, monitoring and analysing them, it seems that cartel agreements are being concluded there, and the rise in these prices is somehow happening as it is. In the context of this law, in the context of this amendment, can we keep these things in the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U662	This is certainly one area that needs to be given more attention. Well, it's been dealt with as a matter of force, but other areas, other things have obviously taken on more resources. So one goal really is to focus more action, incentives and action plans on markets where there really is no regulation, where there is a free market, but where there may be agreements of one kind or another. However, proof of agreements is always extremely difficult. This requires analysis, evidence, it usually takes time, because when agreements are made there may be, but there may not be, there is enough cleverness. It should not be assumed that those who make these agreements do not do everything to hide them in any way. Well, you can make a deal with somebody at the sauna party, and then try to make sure they've made a deal. But there are doubts about [certain] behavior. I hope that this action will be reinforced by the draft that I have referred to a few times here. And when this bill becomes a law, in order to implement it, people are needed, a resource is needed. The aim is certainly to significantly strengthen this capacity in order to assess both the fuel market and other markets where agreements may potentially exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U663	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U664	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I would first like to support my fellow Members. Indeed, I do not believe that simply giving more money will make the Competition Authority stronger. I'm sure there's a lot more factors. But I don't think you're denying it. My question is [about] that I actually heard from your report that there are certainly those who yearn for a weak competition authority. I don't know this area. Could you help me out and give me some examples of who the people's enemies are, who would very much like to see a weak competition office? Just to widen my horizons, I'm asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U665	Thank you! I am certainly not going to say specific names, specific institutions, then I should have evidence next to it. However, it is generally malicious operators who wish to make and make illegal agreements, cartel agreements, price agreements in any area, for example, on what price to sell goods or provide services. Agreements will be concluded, even if it is suggested that, for example, in the case of public procurement, specifically agreed identical prices will be offered or distributed before winning one procurement, which will win the second or third procurement. They tell stories like that. These are undertakings that are interested in not having such supervision. Their interest is to make a profit, to make a profit, but it comes at the expense of others, at the expense of consumers. If such an agreement concerns public procurement, it comes at the expense of the State. And there are other possibilities. Let's just say there's a lot of ingenuity. World practice is very colorful. In Estonia, we have not heard much of these things, perhaps because we had the Competition Authority set up relatively early, became operational or we have tried to do so. But if you want to hear the most colorful stories, they can be found in economic history, for example, about the late 19th century America. 19th - century America offers colorful and bloody chapters. I really hope we don't have it, and thank God. But maybe this is a warning example of where the unregulated market could go in the worst case scenario.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U666	Thank you very much. No further questions. We can go to the co-report. I call on the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs... to speak with an apology, Annely Akkermanni, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U667	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This law amending the competition law and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government on 27 September and was accepted into the procedure of the Riigikogu on 28 September this year. The Commission discussed the draft for the first time on 19 October and decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, 27 October. For the second time, the Commission discussed the draft on 25 October. At this session, Minister for Justice Maris Lauri presented the contents of the draft, and you have heard this introduction yourself, and I will not repeat it. The content of the draft is to change the financing model of the Competition Authority. And that's the bottom line. The Law on public water supply is also amended and the coordination of prices, which was previously the responsibility of the local government, is fully entrusted to the Competition Authority. There was little talk about this in the context of these questions and presentations. At the Commission, Siim Kallas examined the opinion of the Minister of Justice as to how the treatment of raising fees in the Riigikogu could proceed. Maris Lauri expressed his hope that this draft would be supported, as stronger supervision of competition could be in everyone's interest. The speaker commented that the text of the draft states that the administrative burden on businesses will not increase. However, the coordination table noted the opinion of the Electricity Industry Association that the draft would lead to manual work. Vice Chancellor of Justice Policy Viljar Peep said that today there is quite a lot of manual work in regulated markets where the Competition Authority is price regulator. The data must be included in the tables in a substantial manner so that the Competition Authority can carry out its regulatory activities. IT systems and scratching will be developed in the future. Viljar Peep, on the one hand, stated that the declarations had to be entered and submitted separately, as they did not have to be reflected in the annual report. But there should be no additional administrative burden. However, if a separate declaration is to be submitted, it is probably an additional administrative burden, which is quite difficult to argue against. The speaker pointed out that, on the basis of the coordination table, the affected parties were exclusively dissatisfied. Their proposals are mostly taken into account only partially or not at all. The bill seems unpopular. Maris Lauri said that adding a fee would be a problem. In its original version, the draft did not explicitly state that it was permissible to add a fee to the price, which may have led the parties concerned to feel that they would incur substantial additional costs. Commission official Piia Schults said that so far the state fees for licences have been one of the "user pays" funds. Schults wondered whether these rates would be changed in the draft. Mr Peep replied that there would be no change in the State fees for licences used on a regulated market. As the draft is directly related to the State Budget Act for the following year, the meeting considered reducing the deadline for amendments, but because of the size of the draft, this idea was abandoned. At its meeting on 25 October, it was decided: firstly, to appoint a rapporteur for the commission; secondly, to propose that the first reading be stopped. Both decisions were taken by consensus between Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Raimond Kaljulaid, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korbi, Kalvi Tulika, Kristen Michali, Sven Sester, Mikhail Stalnukhin and the speaker here. That's all I got. I don't think there's any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U668	No questions. Thank you very much. So we can go to the negotiations. First of all, Kalvi Tõvi has expressed his wish to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U669	Very honored Vice-Chairman! Good ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, One minute of my story. A good minister and all the listeners! The Social Democratic Party does not want under any circumstances to weaken the functioning of the Competition Authority. The competition authority needs to be strengthened, and no one is against it. In the case of those who asked in this Chamber, too, I did not observe such [wish], although, Minister, you led the matter a few times, as if we wanted the Competition Authority to be weaker. No, I don't. No, I don't! On our side, that is the question. These EUR 700000... Behind you is the Minister of Economic Affairs, Mr. Aas, and today he is very busy wondering how people's heating bills would be smaller, how electricity bills would be smaller. We will add even these few cents to this particular area, i.e. utilities. Time, timing is very wrong. We're gonna go on with the same system for the year or two until we know what's going on. Let's see what heating prices do. The funding of the Competition Authority comes from two pots: the state budget and supervisory fees, and we will add 700000. Yes, if we are to propose amendments to the state budget here in the Riigikogu, we must also find a source of cover somewhere. You had economic growth on the table, so you could have taken it to 700,000. Of course it is difficult, of course it is difficult, but if that is what we want, if we want to strengthen the activities of the Competition Authority, this EUR 700000 would not have been a mountain-high problem to overcome. We are very skeptical about this law. I sincerely hope that either the government itself will take it back or that it will remain behind Annely's big back in the Economic Commission shelf for a long time. So our final vote will certainly not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U670	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U671	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable ministers and ladies and gentlemen. Nor does the Fatherland Party want our Competition Authority to be weak in any way. Indeed, as the previous speaker Kalvi said, it seemed here that the Minister tried to show in his answers that if you do not now support this draft, then that means that you want the Competition Authority not to be able to do its job and that all the criminals would be able to do their cartel agreements with the greatest pleasure and that you are certainly part of this cartel. We're not part of this cartel. No, it's not! It is clear that we all want the Competition Authority to be strong and to do its job well. But maybe a little bit to look into those explanations. Some of the questions were also raised by trying to raise [the subject]. At times, it seems that this bill is not well thought out. We learned that when the procedure was initiated and coordinated, rail transport was withdrawn from the draft and water and sewerage services remained in. And the reason is simply that railway costs are, like, borne from the state budget. But the cost of investments in water and sewerage networks comes from public money as well. Indeed, the state does not put too much, the majority of the municipalities do, and indeed the European Union does, but it is all our common money. And that's the kind of explanation that leaves the question marks in the air. That's an insufficient explanation. The second [theme], which I think is crucial and which we need to look at and consider for each public office, is how effective a specific institution is. Unfortunately, in this case, it still does not come out very clearly. I asked you that. Indeed, the number of employees per GDP, which is nicely shown in this table, is not the best in Estonia, does not appear to be the best. Estonia is a small country, it is true, and a small country is expensive to maintain, it is true. And sometimes it really takes some extra resources. But if we look at the budget, also at the ratio of the budget to GDP, then in fact, there we see the same situation that Belgium is also [the indicator] smaller, Sweden is smaller, Norway is smaller. That's not really the case, but there's no explanation. There was no way to read how it was intended to increase efficiency. Now we have heard that there is a lot of manual work in Estonia and that there may actually be more bureaucracy. That we can still support our country as well as we have the means to do so. Good Minister, yes, competition crimes are hidden crimes. You said that really, if any agreements are made at the sauna party, the Estonian state will never be so rich that we will send one competition official to each sauna party. We're just not that rich. In this sense, we need to look at what our chances are. Once again: indeed, the Fatherland Party certainly wants our Competition Authority to work older and be adequately funded. But it is also true that decisions must be made in such a way that not only are they right but they also seem fair. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U672	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U673	And really, if we are trying to suppress this savage price increase with one hand now, then all of the following actions must also give this signal that we are thinking together, we are really thinking with concern about those people who have had a huge hole in their wallet by this increase in the price of energy. Indeed, these sums are not very large, I agree with you in this respect, Minister, but this move does not seem fair. And it certainly doesn't seem fair to those people who think with concern. They may not be able to get into it, but they will understand that the state will take something from them again. And that is, in fact, perhaps the greatest deficiency of this law in these difficult times. But the other is, of course, that we still have to think at the same time about how we are effective. How are we gonna do our thing so I.T. can work it out? We really do say here that we have a large number of isolated network regions. Well, we can divide them into smaller pieces and start to control them even more closely, but somewhere there's a limit of reason where we can spend our money, but there's no more. We cannot build control bodies indefinitely, wishing for better results and even better results. There's always something to add. So, indeed, the Fatherland Party is relatively skeptical about at least the current version and says that we should work on this draft before sending it to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U674	No more words, I'll close the negotiations. Oh, I'm sorry! Minister! The negotiations are continuing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U675	Thank you. I'm trying to sort out some things that must have gotten a little messed up. Effectiveness is certainly important. But in order to achieve efficiency, first of all, people are needed and resources are needed. Financial resources are also needed to achieve efficiency by using IT solutions. All of this requires financial resources. The fact that efficiency appears to be higher in some countries is often due to the fact that their monopolistic markets are larger. Their power grid, the water grid, covers more people. The control of one company, monopoly company or regulator will take more or less one human resource, regardless of the size of the network they are covering, there will be [participants] 100000, 150000 or 200000. In some cases, these scales may even be larger. We just have to do the procedures. If, for example, we have ten companies in some area that need to be controlled, then [ten is ten], although these ten may be relatively small. There may be 10 companies in Norway, but they are significantly larger. However, human resources are needed just as much, no matter how much this particular network covers. So in this sense, I assure you that there is a great deal of work to be done on efficiency, and indeed very many IT solutions are being dealt with. But they require resources, they also require time to prepare. The contradiction highlighted by the Commission's rapporteur so much that, as far as costs are concerned, it is true that there is a great deal of manual work currently being done to present these data to the regulator, the Competition Authority. However, there is no extra additional work to be done in relation to these supervisory fees. The same data shall be used. Yes, it is true that there is a great deal of manual work, but there is no additional work coming from this bill. So this thing definitely does, too. Now the question is whether the bill's timing is wrong and maybe we can postpone it for a few more years. My experience in the Riigikogu and politics has shown that it is very easy to postpone things. But then at some point, it's a shame they didn't do it in time. Indeed, it may seem that this timing is not ideal because energy prices have risen rapidly. The draft, however, began to be prepared in spring, there were no signs that the increase in electricity prices would have to be very high, seen from nowhere. And I think it is important to distinguish between two problems and two things: one is the Competition Authority and its funding, its functioning, and the other is the increase in energy prices, which in certain cases requires compensation. They can both go in parallel. I assure you that tomorrow the government will also have a debate on these measures on the agenda, and hopefully also adoption or decision on which they will come to implement the compensatory measures. They're coming, they're not coming. Believe me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U676	Thank you. Now, indeed, the negotiations have been concluded and we will proceed with the procedure. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 442 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 10 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U677	Let's move on to the agenda. Our 17th item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft law amending state fees, civil procedure and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U678	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce to you the draft 443 amending the State Tax Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws, namely the Code of Administrative Procedure and the Act on the Implementation of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure. This has four major objectives: to increase state fees, to replace bail with state fees, to change the service of procedural documents and to increase the limits of the simplified procedure and of the urgent procedure for ordering payment. First, raising state fees. The draft concerns state fees relating to judicial activities, but not all of them. State fees and some others related to work and family matters have been discarded. When we talk about state fees, state fees should, by their very nature, cover the costs of the activities carried out by the State. And as costs increase, state fees should also increase. However, the State does not have to commit the amount of State fees absolutely and rigidly to the costs of the operation. It is also justified to cover part of the costs by reference to a number of other significant considerations. For example, access to essential but costly services can be mentioned. Access to justice provided for in § 15 of the Constitution is not absolute. The legislator has the right to define limits to the right of appeal within the framework laid down by the Constitution, including with regard to other constitutional values. One of the values of the constitutional order to be taken into account is procedural economics. The obligation to pay state fees for judicial proceedings has been imposed in order to avoid a large number of excessive and malicious complaints and to cover procedural costs to a reasonable extent from the amounts received by the state fees in the state budget. The aim is also to save taxpayers' money. The current court fees and registration fees were amended [2014]. ] in connection with the changeover to the euro. A large part of the current fees date back to 2006, as in 2014 the conversion of kroons into euro took place in principle and no substantive analysis or change took place. It is clear that the substantive value of these fees has changed considerably in the last 15 years. It is therefore also justified to increase the fees in order to ensure procedural economics, to avoid overburdening the courts with unjustified and malicious requirements and to better align the rates of state fees for judicial proceedings with the principle of costorientation. The bill raises state fees to a very different extent. The main increase is 40%, which corresponds to inflation. Increases of a higher percentage come on small fees, which are generally linked to registration operations. For example, the state fee will rise from EUR 4 to EUR 10 if natural persons, members or private limited liability companies change their data or supplement them in a commercial register. However, there are also minor increases, for example, the state fee for registration of a building cooperative will rise from 20 to 25 euros, i.e. 25%, and the state fee for registration of a foundation from 58 to 70 euros, i.e. 21%. In the case of state fees, it has been tried to reach rates which would be either five or zero. And once again, the state fees for family law claims, proceedings without action remain unchanged, as these procedures affect people's daily lives more, and recourse to the courts is a real need to protect vital interests and the rights enshrined in the Constitution. The second issue that the draft deals with is the replacement of bail by state fees. The term Cassation Card is used in the Code of Civil and Judicial Procedure since 1992 and 1993, when the Code of Administrative Offences of the Estonian SSR and the Code of Civil Procedure were abolished. Unfortunately, the explanatory notes do not explain why the Cassation Trade and any bail were created and why they should be distinguished from state fees. The Supreme Court has stated that the cassation concession is a deposit which should prevent the lodging of unfounded complaints. At the same time, the state fee also has at least one objective exactly the same. Judicial actions are carried out at all levels of the court and the parties seeking to act should pay for them in a uniform manner. So it has been rather a political question as to whether certain procedural procedures are subject to state fees or bail by the parties to the proceedings. The purpose of the amendment is to harmonise the costs paid by the parties at all stages of the proceedings. In civil and administrative court proceedings, it is not justified to distinguish between state fees, cassation bonds and bail as a court charge. Following the amendment, these bonds will be replaced by a state fee. Bail is also on appeal to the Supreme Court. However, due to the size of the bail, the application to the Supreme Court has become cheaper than the court of first or second instance, while the process of cassation is actually considerably more expensive than the court proceedings of first and second instance. This is because the court proceedings are conducted in the Supreme Court by a formation of at least three members, composed of the highest-paid judges. The third area of amendments concerns service of procedural documents. The delivery of procedural documents is resource-intensive as it is accompanied by substantial technical work and, in addition, the cost of postal services has increased considerably in recent years. For example, while in 2018 the postal costs of the courts of first and second instance were EUR 587000, last year EUR 1.6 million, in the first half of this year more than 930000, i.e. this year's cost could rise to 2 million. So, obviously, it is already necessary to take steps to reduce these postal costs. The amendments to the draft act will facilitate the delivery of documents to companies. According to the Commercial Code, it is the obligation to enter on the registration card the electronic address of the undertaking or company, which must also be updated if necessary and at least confirmed when submitting the annual report. It is reasonable to assume that the pre-requisite is created by the Supreme Court, that companies and companies check the e-mail addresses they receive to us every working day. However, the bill considers sending procedural documents to be an e-mail within five working days, based on the fact that smaller companies may have different work practices. The movement of documents shall also be accelerated in the urgent procedure for the order for payment and the rules relating to the service by post of procedural documents shall be adjusted. The fourth area concerns the increase of the limits of the simplified procedure and of the urgent payment order procedure. The greatest burden lies with the courts of first instance dealing with civil matters, which already provided for simplified and written procedures in 2005. A simplified procedure can be applied to dealing with small cases at the cost of an action and merely with the requirements arising from documents. Here, too, it makes sense to raise the thresholds due to changes in economic circumstances, in particular the rise in income and living standards. These limits will be raised, for example, from the current EUR 6400 to EUR 8000 in the urgent payment order procedure. However, some of these changes also concern other thresholds for the simplified procedure. The judge will continue to be able to decide which simplification procedures or possibilities he will use and whether he will use them at all. For example, there may be a situation where a relatively modest requirement is the subject of a very complex dispute and therefore the use of simplification options is not feasible at all. Why are these changes necessary? First of all, it is certainly because the amounts set as monetary amount have in many cases fallen into the way of time. It is logical that all financial limits, state fees, subsidies and other [rates] imposed by the State will be reviewed from time to time. It has to be said that the passion for raising a number of subsidies is always very politically strong, which is why they tend to rise as a much lighter decision. On the other hand, higher cost levels for people are not expected to be raised, although this should also be done. Undoubtedly, it would be better if the state fees had been raised earlier and, perhaps, repeatedly. Then these liftings would have been smaller and less emotional. But it seems to me that we have a lack of political courage over and over again. As I pointed out, the last change in state fees took place in 2014, when [the conversion of kroons into euros], no substantive assessment was carried out. Since then, GDP has increased by 25%, average wages by more than 42%, net family income by 32%, and this is from 2014 when the state fees were not actually changed. Now that we add to these percentages this and next year's forecasts, it is clear that state fees need to be increased, and it is precisely given in very prudent rates. On the substantive side, it should also be pointed out that the workload of the courts has increased and that different types of statements have increasingly been made. Some examples. 101000 applications were submitted to the Tartu County Court Registry Department last year, 88500 in the previous year, an increase of 14% in one year. The problem is that the documents presented are increasingly incomplete and need to be reviewed, reviewed and dealt with in the course of the procedure. As a result, workload has increased and resolution times have increased on average. In 2020, 33658 civil cases were received by the county court, which is the record for seven years. The length of proceedings is increasing, and 16% of cases are already pending for more than a year. An overburdened court does not understand justice quickly enough, and this naturally gives rise to resentment. It would be natural for people and businesses to be able to resolve disputes between themselves, and if this did not work, intermediaries would be contacted and the court would be the last choice. It is certainly important to get justice, but it is in the interests of society and, in fact, of those arguing, of resolving disputes as quickly as possible, with as little money and time as possible. Therefore, in very many cases, the first place to settle disputes should not be a court. If, however, this path were chosen, it would be fairer to do so, in particular, with the substantial financial contribution of the parties concerned themselves. Discussions with judges and court officials have revealed that, unfortunately, Estonia has also experienced an increasing number of processes because of the process. In Estonia, applicants can actually apply for a fee exemption if necessary, in which case the court will consider a number of circumstances, including the prospect of a dispute. The costs of the courts of first instance and second instance have increased from 33 million in 2014 to 45,3 million euros this year, or 37%. There are a number of employees who have received significantly lower wages than the labour market average: judicial interpreters, referees and others. This issue will also be addressed by the state budget for the coming year, where there will be significantly more money for these groups of employees than in the past. We are working on finding a solution and increasing the number of judges if necessary. However, the changes in the fees and the above changes are also undoubtedly essential and the courts are looking forward to them. We also use more and more IT solutions in courts, make changes to work organisation, review work processes. If necessary, we will make changes to the law. Some of these things are already happening and many things are planned. There are also several drafts in the proceedings of the Riigikogu that deal with these problems. But it has to be said that no system can be changed so that no part of it is affected at all. I therefore hope that you will support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U679	Thank you. There are questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U680	Thank you, Mr President. I looked forward to this bill and the explanatory memorandum, and I had a question about a component. As the Minister of Justice as a specialist, maybe you can explain to me, as a layman, the costs of legal expenses and the costs of examining the case. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U681	Thank you. As far as I know, you are a person with legal knowledge, and you are actually able to answer this question well yourself. So I'm gonna leave myself a chance not to answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U682	It would be polite to answer the question of a member of the Riigikogu. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U683	Good manager and minister! At the moment, I hope that you will not, however, miss the opportunity to respond. Here's my question. Please explain why, for example, the fee increases by 21% when you register a foundation, but by 43% when you register a religious association and by 50% when you register a land improvement cooperative. And if you want to change the records of a religious organization, the 150% increase should be. Where have these [rates] come from? And would you send me the reasons for the other tables? What are [these calculations] made up of? How much paper is there and how much pen color and other things or [documents] movement? At the same time, on 16 September, Viljar Peep has said that we are not stuck in any of these numbers, but today, a month later, the numbers are already on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U684	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U685	Thank you. As I explained in my report, economic indicators have been taken into account when raising state fees, i.e. how much the economy has grown, the incomes of the population, and also the costs to be incurred. Some things are more expensive, some things are less expensive, these rates have been refined for this reason. I also mentioned the objective of [fees] being round, ending with 0 or 5. As far as the fees are concerned, the initial registration requires less work than the modification or upgrading of the entries in the register. So that's why they're more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U686	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U687	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Let me ask you a little bit more generally. Indeed, today we are discussing the amendment of the state fees relating to the courts. But has the government looked or intends to look at other state fees? Do you have any plans to develop other changes to state fees in the proceedings? Or, in fact, I understand that there was no plan to develop in this case, but what about state fees in general? And in this context, what does today's bill look like with its percentage increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U688	Thank you. While state fees are defined in one state fee law, they are fees in different fields and are therefore dealt with by ministers in different fields. I dare not say that no one is planning anywhere or is already talking about raising or changing fees. I dare say that in my field, apart from what is here, there is nothing else going on for me right now. I hope that if there is a need to change the fees, it will certainly be thoroughly considered. And these rates were discussed with the various parties involved, including the courts, and were actually reduced on several occasions. Let's just say this step wasn't very easy, but it's a very carefully considered step.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U689	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U690	Thank you, Mr President. We have very good cooperation with the Minister. I mean, once he doesn't answer me, says it's a pointless question, sometimes he doesn't answer because I don't think he knows. But the minister should know. The State Fees Act defines two costs: the costs of legal expenses and the costs of examining the case. In fact, they overlap in some respects: the costs are the State fee and the costs of examining the case, and the costs of examining the case are those which the court carries out in connection with the conduct of the proceedings. So there's nothing complicated here, but put it behind your ear for the future. Well, the minister's good and he's definitely studying. But my question is that you indicated that the courts were waiting for the state fees to be increased. In fact, the courts expect nothing because the courts are paid for their work, but it becomes more difficult for people to go to court. Why don't you think about people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U691	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much, but as I said, you knew the answer to your question very well. I always assume that I'm being asked things not to test my knowledge, but to get my explanation or my knowledge. So we can definitely have a discussion somewhere where we can discuss and share each other's knowledge. But thank you so much for letting me and everyone know that. As regards whom and for what we are raising these state fees, I assure you that we have spoken to the courts and that the courts are simply seeing the various aspects that I referred to in my speech. First of all, state fees, by their nature, should cover costs and only in certain cases, they should not do so for certain justified reasons, for example in circumstances where there are some important services that people need to receive, but the service itself is expensive or the operation is very expensive. Then you don't do it. For example, in the case of the same draft, I mentioned that in family-related, work-related disputes, we will not change the state fees, and that is also a reason. We believe that in such cases, people must always be able to argue and defend their rights. It is also important that we have to take procedural economics into account. There are a number of cases in this regard. We need to see that those who go to court really turn there when it is necessary for them to take advantage of any other means of resolving their disputes. The court does not need to be the first option. There are certainly situations in which this is the case, but there are disputes that are wiser to resolve, either between themselves, through lawyers or through other intermediaries, legally. But litigation is the most expensive dispute. He's long in time, he's usually very expensive financially. As I mentioned, pointing to the information of the judges, we are growing in the number of disputes that are being debated for argument. There's a lot of arguing about it. In such disputes, one [measure] to slow them down, to make people think about cheaper solutions, is that it is not too cheap to go to court. So that the amount you have to put in would at least make you wonder if this step is the right one. And once again, we will be able to get a fee waiver or a partial refund on the court's decision. I'm sure it'll be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U692	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U693	Good manager! Dear Minister, We know that if we want to increase the price, this price must be cost-oriented. If we look at this bill, we will see nothing else about this cost base when we talk about wages. On the other hand, this price increase is not cost-based either [in this sense], that if we look at the explanatory memorandum, it says that at this point [the fee] covers 40% of [the cost] and the increase is up to 40%. Then it won't cover the cost in the future. But I'm looking at one of the lines in the [explanatory note], which is why it raises: "Renewing registers is more laborious for register workers than for first-time entries. The state fee for changing the entries has been harmonised so that the fee for changing the entry is in line with the work to change the entry. " I don't understand it. I make records practically every year about my companies, it's electronic. What other officials are there to do? There's a program to run. That's how you save money. Why, however, have we not developed a plan of development to see what really costs are beyond the increase in wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U694	Thank you. There are very different costs for a business register or any register. The register is an IT solution, which means that there are very significant IT costs involved. They're permanent, it's not like you're gonna work it out, and then he's gonna work. It must be kept going, it must be renewed. By the way, the innovation process is currently in progress in stages in the business register, with successive innovations being made. Now, the question is, yes, you can submit your materials electronically, but in a lot of cases, these things are over-checked. Yeah, there's electronic checks on it, but in some cases, the clerk has to look inside the document. For example, change or appointment of a member of the Governing Board. You make a note, you put a document in it, it goes to the registry officer, he sees, uh, it's there. He opens it, looks inside, that's right. Well, I've also received some indications in my records that there's been a mistake, please, fix it. So all these things have to be done. It's really nice that you've probably been doing this all the time for years, and you're not making any more mistakes, you're not going to be a burden. But those people who rarely make deals or have new players, they happen to make these mistakes more than inadvertently, sometimes sloppy, but can't rule out that they don't always understand. Well, that's just the practice. The question is, how much do you want to raise? Let's just say, of course, we can take inflation for example from 2006 and then estimate it, so these percentage increases would be even higher. I also pointed out in my speech that such numerical rates should be reviewed regularly, so these increases would be lower. In the present case, an average increase of 40% has been made in the case of some operations for which more has been done, some for which less has been done. And this is due to different considerations, including rounding considerations, but also to the actual costs involved. Let's just say that if we had come, I don't know, with an average increase of 60% or 70% or more, I think it would have been too hard. Its 40% increase, which is more modest in terms of inflation, is also reflected in the fact that IT solutions have been built up and the system has become more effective as a result. But you can't go on forever, you have to take some steps. Let's just say that for very long years, the fees have not been raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U695	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U696	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Yeah, [average] 40% increase, but I said these percentages are 21, 25, 33, 38, 39, 43, 50, 150 and so on. Please send me the cost [rates] for the table on pages 12 to 15 of the [explanatory note], why this is the way [rates] have risen! How much is it in there for what? This is the first request on the previous question. But the second is that you say that you want to avoid a large number of excessive and malicious complaints. And my question is, how many malicious complaints do we have? You say there's a lot. How big is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U697	Thank you. As regards the background to the increase in fees, I would like to ask for more detailed reasons than you would like. I hope that you will understand better where the money is going and why such sums are. As regards... Excuse me, what was the second keyword? Ah, malicious complaints. I didn't say a lot, I thought I said there was a growing number. [[There's something going on in the hall.]] Okay! There's no number, I asked how many there were. Well, let's just say you can't say that numerically. But the judges who deal with matters see from the parties involved what are the motives in which they are presented, which are arguments. It is their sense that there have been more disputes that could actually be resolved between themselves, which should not be brought to justice. But there are reasons why they're coming. When it comes to malicious or spiteful complaints, there are also complaints that, for example, want to wear someone out with unpleasant or annoying complaints. So he doesn't have time to do his main job or any other important thing. There are quite a few things that have been applied in the world. There have been more, sometimes fewer, in Estonia. And I can't refer to specific circumstances. Like I said, I've been asking the judges if they have that kind of feeling. They've said yes. And they've said that over and over again. I guess it is when they confirm that they have such a feeling that there will be more such complaints, that there will be a growing number of them. Apparently, if you're reading some historical, I don't know, parish court records, there must be some very colorful things. We probably don't have that colorful. I even asked a judge if there were any such things. There are no such [as in the old days], but there are plenty where there is a dispute in court over things that do not make sense to neighbours or such. Then there's a reason, it's vicious usually: exhausting the enemy, bullying. Well, I don't know, things like that have come up a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U698	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U699	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is a bit of a questioner's follow-up. Indeed, I am also interested in how much then, in fact, the forecast is that court appeals will decrease. You're saying that's what it's like, but you could at least be some kind of prognosis and expert opinion in addition to feeling. This would certainly be necessary if we were to foresee an increase in the state fee when planning to use the money, then it would still be important to fix it clearly, numerically. It's elementary. But the second part of the question is that when there is more money, what is the focus: where should the money go first?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U700	Thank you. This money is received by the state budget and indeed, the state budget provides for an increase in the costs of the courts. This is also due to court support staff whose salaries have not increased for years. As a result, depending on their position, they have a market average of 20 to 40% lower wages, which means that there are no people available. The biggest problem is with the interpreters, but other officials are also missing. It is well known that the salaries of the judges are linked to the KRAPS and are automatically rising, and the salaries of the Advocates General are exactly the same. But in previous years, the courts have been allocated the same amount of money at all times, including KRAPS wages, which have increased. As a result, the rest of the salary has been reduced and there are really difficulties. For example, you need people to serve the same court documents, right? It's a tedious, exhausting job, chasing after where the person who needs to get the court documents, where he's so damn hard to get him. And, well, let's just say that these people often work a little higher than the minimum wage. The minimum wage has risen so much. But these people's wages can't be raised. That's one problem. The second thing: we are quite seriously increasing the number of IT solutions in the courts, making these applications. We also want to increase the number of judges, but if we take more judges, the judge will be accompanied by his secretary and also by an Advocate General. Taking in one judge means actually bringing in three people. This opportunity has been created. If a bill relating to communications data is adopted in the Riigikogu, if my memory is not deceived, then 392 was the number of the bill, which provides that the permission to use the communication data should be issued by the courts instead of the prosecutor's office, then we need additional judges. And there are other activities that require additional judges. It is also necessary to hire additional judges in order to reduce the length of legal proceedings. This, too, requires a resource. These are the main activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U701	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U702	Thank you. I don't think anyone here is arguing that people's wages have to be normal to get them to work. But, in my opinion, our aim today is not to increase but to reduce the number of people receiving money from taxpayers, but not at the expense of taxpayers. And when we do IT developments, IT developments are still being made to save expenses somewhere. But I would also like to make sure that these state fees are cost-based [explaination]. Perhaps it would be possible to obtain it in the near future, so that improvements could also be made. But I see here that Article 59 of [Law on State Fees] is supplemented by paragraphs 19 and 20 in certain terms. The first line of paragraph 19 contains the word "echo." Can you tell me, I'm not a lawyer, what is this echoes and the retrial statement? What's an echo? It is on page one, the sixth point of [the draft]. Paragraph (59) is supplemented by two paragraphs, paragraph 19 being on the first page, slightly downwards from the middle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U703	I have to admit, since I'm not a lawyer, I don't know what that is. But you have a colleague there who's definitely coming to help you. I didn't even notice that there was a word like that here, even though I've read the bill many times. But as for what's the problem when we do the IT solution. Making an IT solution is always a cost. You're gonna figure this out, but you're gonna have to keep this system up, you're gonna have to update it. We have a very large project in development that will actually lead to IT solutions [in total] from the moment criminal proceedings, for example, are opened, a crime scene has been discovered. This whole line would be covered up to the prison field, figuratively speaking. This is a multi-annual project, we are using Structural Funds resources. But maintenance and everything else can't be used for this purpose; there must be budgetary resources. In order to create this system, start implementing it in its original form and then keep it alive, it will require additional resources even if we use the Structural Funds. It is also needed in civil court proceedings, it goes to the registers to make everything user-friendly. At the moment, very big development work is taking place, very big changes are taking place in different areas. Partly [expenditure to be made] is also due to the fact that, in some sense, things have stopped in the meantime, old systems have not been sufficiently developed, alive and the need for additional money for IT solutions is simply increasing. Costs must be incurred before their positive effects become apparent. It is likely that the need for additional expenditure due to IT will be several years, and then it will start to bear fruit at one point. It might take a while, it won't happen immediately. The fact is also that [solutions] must be brought to users. There are a number of people who have IT tools that use e-files and do not print anything out are highly innovative. But there are some judges who print one or the other out, like to work with papers. There are different practices and transitions also take some time. Judges are known to be lifelong, so we must also consider that people are different in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U704	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the co-report. We invite a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Urve Tiidus, to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U705	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the draft law amending state fees, the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws took place on 19 October and the draft was presented by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri at the Commission. I will only highlight a few things from the Minister's presentation, which, indeed, sounded here today, but they deserve to be repeated. One is that, by way of exception, it is intended not to raise the state fees for disputes concerning families of fundamental importance to the public, so that the state fees for family law claims and proceedings without an action remain unchanged as these procedures affect people's daily lives more. And another is the fact that most of the state fees were last adjusted in 2011 when the changeover to the euro took place and, at the same time, they were actually introduced already in 2006, i.e. practically 15 years ago. During this time, the costs of the courts have increased, even because of inflation, but not just because of inflation. The Minister pointed out these increases in detail. Eneli Kivi, adviser to the Ministry's Judicial Service, who attended the meeting of the Commission, explained to the Commission that in addition to the cassation concession, all other bonds would be replaced by a state fee in the Code of Civil and Administrative Procedure. The members of the Commission wanted concrete examples where, in percentage terms, the rise in state fees is high, but relatively modest in absolute terms. The Minister said that, for example, the state fee paid to the administrative court for an appeal would increase by 33%, but it would amount to EUR 5. The state fee for the registration of a self-employed company in the commercial register will rise by 54%, but it will increase by 7 euros. The Commission has examined the fact that many people receive letters from banks and post offices, where, for example, depending on the company, it is reported that the amount of the fine will increase by EUR 5 to 10 when the letter is received. The point of the question was that it wasn't illegal to charge companies to send a letter. The Minister assured the person asking that this would facilitate the delivery of documents to the companies. No separate payment is regulated by this bill. Service of judicial documents is now and will continue to take place within the framework of this draft from the Court's budget and private individuals will not be charged this fee. The Minister also stated that this draft does not deal with the way private companies deliver documents to private individuals, but only with the way courts deliver communications to private individuals and companies. It's clear. In addition, it was examined whether the purpose of raising state fees could not be interpreted by the state as if less legal assistance was being provided. Here it is worth repeating the Minister's explanation in the Commission that the increase in state fees is linked to the fact that they have to cover operating costs in the main. The costs of courts have increased over the years. Raising state fees should help to mitigate the impact of the increase in expenditure. At the same time, people will still be able to go to court and receive legal aid from the state, which will not change. In addition, there is free legal advice, which is compensated by the State. But the most important thing is that people do not go to court with their legal problems, but resolve them earlier. That's what the Minister said. There was also a clarification of the debate on one of the contradictions highlighted by a Member of the Commission. I quote: "The state fees will also be raised in order for fewer people to go to court, but they will not be raised in the case of disputes concerning family matters, where they may also be brought to court for other motives. " The Minister explained that there are a lot of material disputes in civil disputes, where at first sight there are minor reasons for arguing. And in family disputes where, for example, custody is decided, there will be no change. In response to the question put by the Member of the Commission, it was also repeated that the delivery of documents on paper to private individuals would remain. Commission advisor Linnar Liivamägi also reminded the members of the Commission of the meaning of the state fee. Indeed, the Constitution provides everyone with a fundamental right to apply to the courts if a person considers that his or her rights or freedoms have been violated. The state fee is by its nature a restriction on this fundamental right which is justified by only one other constitutional value, namely procedural economics. In the case of the draft in question, this restriction in the form of an increase in the rates of state fees is justified and it is necessary that the court is not referred to too lightly. The chairman of the committee, Marek Jürgenson, proposed that procedural decisions be taken on the draft. It was decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda by 27 October, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 5 November and to appoint Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the representative of the lead committee. All these decisions were made in consensus by Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U706	Thank you very much. You could ask me some questions, but it looks like there's no one to ask. Then we can open negotiations. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U707	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We have now discussed two draft laws in a row, and both main issues have been that it is necessary somehow to increase people's spending so that there is still a way to increase taxes. And the reasons are always, I believe, justified. The Minister also said that state fees have not been raised since 2014, and so it is clear that raising state fees seven years later is entirely natural. I believe that we all understand the Minister's sentence in the Chamber, too, that it should have been done more often than [has been done]. But there's always one thing that bothers me. If raised, there should be a very clear cost-based increase. And maybe the average 40% increase is small. When I read the explanatory statement, it turns out that the increase should be at least 70% to cover the costs. But if I don't see the cost side apart from the need for auxiliary personnel to raise their wages by 25%, it raises the question whether these numbers are correct or not. And if the questions are answered that I had a conversation with the judge and the judge thought so, I'd like to see one person who says that his salary is enough. If I look around here, whoever you're asking whispering in your ear, I'm sure the ladies around here would say that the pay is small. And they are small, I believe. And when you ask the members of the Riigikogu, they don't have the guts to say it, but quietly they think it would be good to have a few more euros. It's natural. But we are not saying, for example, that if an IT solution is made, how many jobs will be reduced, how much costs will be reduced. We have an e-state, we are trying to explain across the world how hard and good our country is, how successful it is. And then we hear all the time that, in fact, e-solutions are not at all at the level of cost savings, and are controlled by people who have to be paid, and these controllers must be educated, they must have a decent salary and so on, and so on. Only then, under competitive conditions, can people be taken from the market; private operators compete on the same market. If we know that it is not always possible to raise wages indefinitely, then the question arises. Once again, I would like to emphasise that, in the public sector, in order to get a good level of people in competition, wages must be able to compete. You can't argue about that. But with the previous draft, and with the same bill, we just raise numbers, raise taxes, even though we have heard that this coalition has clearly said that they will not raise taxes for people during their rule. At the same time, we see these taxes being raised from morning to night hidden. Members of the Riigikogu can only ask two questions, and I am not such a brave boy that I always try to ask my questions procedurally. And there are no answers to any of these questions left unanswered. Where will the costs come from? What are the economic costs? Do these houses, which in most cases are managed by the State Real Estate Company, require a lot of money? We know that in most cases they are much more expensive than private companies offer next door? If I look at my own county, I could certainly offer the same surfaces much cheaper than the State Real Estate Corporation offers and asks next door. Well, competition is good and can be a little cheaper to do well on the market. But I hope so... We read in [the bill] that there are echoes in here and that they ask for more money for everything else. We don't really know if this echo is a woman, or if it's just an echo, like it's echoing in this room. But as a proposal for amendment, he's here, and you have to pay the state fee. I believe that, before the second reading, we will still know the very clear cost side, and then we will be able to decide whether the state fees need to be reduced, increased or those are the state fees that are currently being presented to us by the government, exactly as they should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U708	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U709	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make a serious criticism of the draft that has now been put on our table. In fact, the fact that, from the moment our constitution was adopted, there is a very important point to be noticed: every person has the right to appeal to the courts to defend his or her violated rights. And, of course, this right has also been used quite diligently, given the long time since the restoration of the Republic of Estonia. And I can also say that the courts have made fair decisions. And I'm gonna stick to that, even though some people don't like that line. And since the adoption of this right of appeal, state fees have also been imposed. These state fees were very high in financial terms and were usually supplemented by legal aid services provided by a lawyer who had to be paid several times as much as possible. That means it's pretty expensive to go to court. At one point, it was realised that we were violating the meaning of the Constitution and preventing persons with high state fees from going to court. And then at one point, the state fees were reduced. And the result was that the meaning of the Constitution was fulfilled. Visiting the court also made it more possible for those who did not have a wallet on a tree. Which one of us hasn't heard the sentence that I'm not rich enough to go to court. The current draft has created a situation where we are being brought back to the same level. Only rich people can go to court and maybe beautiful ones. I looked at the explanatory memorandum that was annexed to this bill and listened to the wise words of the honourable Minister of Justice about it. And I dare to make a very strong criticism of that, too. First of all, that's the reason. This thing is erected on three whales. The first is that an increase in the rates of court fees is necessary in order to update the state fees relating to judicial proceedings in such a way that the applicable rates of state fees partially cover the Court's operating costs. Here we have reached a situation where people are trying to fill public budget holes with the help of those who have turned to the court, with the help of people's sense of justice and justice. This is not appropriate for the Constitution. The second whale is to rule out malicious or manifestly perverted appeals to the courts. Based on my practice, which has been 24 years, I can say: no one, no one, will go to court maliciously. It spends a lot of nerves, plus, of course, financial resources. It's really better not to go there for health. I can certainly say on this point that this statement is absurd. Then it's a question of a lack of perspective in court. Prospective or not? Of course, there are always two parties in court: one is the plaintiff, the other is the defendant in civil proceedings and each is certain of its own law. We never know whether it's prospective or not. It is often the case that unimaginable things turn out to be a winner in a court battle. It all depends on how your rights are exercised. So in this respect, too, I cannot absolutely agree with this argument or the argument that it is therefore necessary to increase the state fees. The third whale that the Ministry of Justice has pointed out here is that the aim is to direct... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U710	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U711	... that the parties to the dispute are directed to seek out-of-court settlements. Here too, on the basis of my practice, I can say that an enormous effort is being made in advance to find agreements between the various parties. There are arguments, even a certain degree of intimidation tactics, which are now commonplace in the case of lawyers, when they go with a claim, say, against a common citizen. "Oh, you'll get the court fee! You're paying lawyers' fees! " That's the level where it works. But there are also situations where we can't get away with going to court because neither side will give in. In this sense, I cannot accept that judicial officials also consider that recourse to the court is not the last and considered option, because it is always done before this preliminary work is done. I also cannot accept the argument that it is possible to go to court in such a way as not to have to pay the state fee. Yes, it is possible, but it is a special juniper, in which case you must declare all your property: property, income, horses, sheep, children, and so on so that the state can provide you with free legal aid. It is not easy and often it cannot be used. Another argument, which has been made very much both by the Minister and by the co-rapporteur: the word 'procedural economics'. Procedural economics has, in my opinion, been used absolutely incorrectly here. First of all, what is pre-trial negotiation is not procedural economics. This is pre-trial negotiation. Procedural economics is then, if the parties go to court and one of the parties says that yes, you may even be right, but you see, your claim has expired. And then the court will only settle the question of whether or not there is an expiry and will dismiss the action at all if the expiry is applied anyway. Now that's procedural economics. So once again, Mr Maris Lauri, the Minister of Justice, use these expressions in a context that corresponds to their real meaning. It is not a bad thing to loosen up this Code of Civil Procedure or to ask good colleagues for advice on what is meant by echoes, on which we have not heard the answer. But the helpers were so great, they quickly went to Urve Tiidu to explain what the echo was. That if they ask, they can answer right away. So, in summary, I would like to say that it is not possible to support this draft in this way because it is contrary to constitutional values in the principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U712	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. Does the Minister wish to participate in the negotiations? No, I don't. I'm closing the negotiations. Let's go to the procedural decisions. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 443 be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 5 November at 16 a.m. That concludes the debate on the 17th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U713	We can move on to the 18th item: First reading of the draft law amending the building code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related to it (430 SE). The rapporteur is Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-27_U714	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce to you the purpose of the building code and, in connection with it, the draft law amending other laws. The aim is to clarify the rules on the processing of building permits for the loading of a public body of water, to supplement the existing regulation on the acceptance and refusal of a building permit, as well as on the withdrawal of a building permit. The processing of competing applications will be improved and clarified. The amendments are intended to complement the law with regulation, which allows the State itself to carry out preparatory activities for the construction and building permits of the sea for the development of a sea wind park and aquaculture and to submit their building permits to a public auction or a selection offer. Existing regulations are also specified and supplemented in the view of ensuring economic security, national defence restrictions and monitoring conditions. The draft amends the Building Code, the Penal Code, the Electricity Market Act, the Water Act, the Land Valuation Act and the Implementation Act of the Construction Code and the Planning Act. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft.
