ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 5th working week of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu. And first, please, handing over the drafts and enquiries. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U2	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This weekend, the Estonian public was shocked by the announcement that the Ministry of the Environment deleted 28 lakes from the list of publicly used water bodies, most of which have been destroyed due to growing or swamping. At the same time, the European Union's Water Framework Directive has set itself the objective of protecting and improving the status of aquatic ecosystems, and by 2015 at the latest, all surface water bodies had to be in good ecological condition. For those where good status could not be achieved as an exception, an improvement in ecological status had to be achieved. This objective was subsequently extended until this year. The lakes cover 4.8% of the country's area in Estonia, and according to its proportion, Estonia is the fourth largest in Europe. The lakes form a fundamental niche in Estonian nature, without which Estonia as a whole cannot be imagined. The role of lakes in Estonian culture, Estonian folklore and Estonian history is invaluable. On this basis, I will present an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment with seven questions concerning the ecological status of Estonian lakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U3	Thank you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Estonian Reform Party and the Estonian Centre Party Group, I hand over the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities." According to § 19 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and § 36 of the Security Authorities Act, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Estonian Central Party submit a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions." The composition of the Commission can be established on the basis of two principles, whether the principle of parity or proportionality, and the performers wish to change the principle of the composition of that committee and to form the composition of the Commission in the light of the principle of proportionality. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Estonian Centre Party, I will also hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Problem Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning." The content of this draft is also an amendment to the principle of the composition of the Commission, based on the principle of proportionality. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will also hand over the draft Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu on the "Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control" by the Riigikogu, the content of which is also to change the composition of the special committee, based on the principle of proportionality. In addition, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Estonian Centre Party, I am passing on the draft decision of the Riigikogu amending the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a special committee against corruption, which also includes a change in the composition of the special committee, based on the principle of proportionality. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Estonian Centre Party, I am also passing on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu on "Construction of the Problem Committee on Resolution of the People's Crisis." The Riigikogu's decision to set up a problem committee for resolution of the public crisis was adopted on 30 May 2019. The task of the Problem Committee is to shape the Estonian population policy in order to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. The permanent committees of the Riigikogu, mainly the Social Affairs Committee, deal with issues relating to the population in parallel. These topics are also dealt with by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, which shape population policy and sustainable family policy. Under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, the development plan for the population and a coherent society has started in autumn 2020, with the objectives of a family-friendly and child-friendly living environment, a higher birth rate, Estonia supporting health and regional development and contributing Estonia. The Committee on Population Crisis in the Riigikogu duplicates the work of the Social and Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Social Affairs, Internal Affairs, Education and Foreign Affairs. Therefore, the existence of a problem committee is not necessary, reasonable or economically feasible, as the Commission's work requires significant additional costs from the state budget. In a situation where the aim of the state is to cut public spending, finding savings in the Riigikogu is a necessary example. In January 2021, the position of Minister of Population was abolished and officials were transferred to ministries where these policies were previously dealt with. The proposal is to terminate the Demographic Crisis Problem Committee and to continue to deal with these issues in the Riigikogu, in particular in the Social Committee, as well as in the Ministry of Social Affairs, Internal Affairs, Culture and Foreign Affairs. In total, I shall give five drafts to the proceedings. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U5	Thank you! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted five drafts and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U6	92 members of the Riigikogu are present and there is no 9. And now let's go to the clarification and approval of this week's agenda. Kalle Grünthal, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U7	Yes, I have a procedural question relating to the preservation of the working capacity of the Riigikogu. Last week, it happened that our deputy speaker, Hanno Pevkur, took his place in this Chamber, sitting in the Speaker's chair, out of the way of the mask. And when I asked if Hanno Pevkur wasn't afraid to infect other members, there was a laugh in the hall. Maybe somebody took it as a joke, but I mean it. There is no dispute in the sense that on 27 January, Hanno Pevkur announced that he was infected with the corona virus and had symptoms. This means that he should not have been in this Chamber of the Riigikogu on Monday 8 February, especially if he was not a close contact but an infected person. Yet he was here. But this notification of infection resulted in the self isolation of a number of ambassadors, mainly the ambassadors of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. I have this question: has the Board of the Riigikogu checked whether Hanno Pevkur was actually ill or was not ill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U8	Thank you. This is not actually a procedural question, but since it concerned the date when we had the elections, I really place it on everyone's mind: for those who have obtained a positive test result or have close contacts, please follow these rules. However, the integrity of the members of the Riigikogu does not allow a decision not to allow them to enter the premises of the Riigikogu. And in order to avoid any close contact, we had one of the polls on the yard. Hanno Pevkur, please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U9	Yeah, my name was mentioned. Good Kalle, I told you when I was chairing the hearing and I am also happy to say that, when I was in contact with both the Health Board and the doctors, I was assured that my last isolation day was February 7. It's digitalized, everything is controlled and correct. Just as I've always worn a mask here, I suggest you wear a mask and make sure you have your own mask on. Don't worry about my health. If I feel sick, of course I'll stay home. And actually, I proposed that we hopefully begin to discuss immediately so that the large Chamber of the Riigikogu works in the form of distance participation this week and next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U10	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your explanation, Hanno Pevkur. But for me, one thing's gonna be weird. When I was assigned to self-insulation after your message, those of us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were assigned to isolation: Anti Half Office, Kalle Grünthal. At the same time, based on the information you provided, Igor Kravtšenko was not designated for isolation, Lauri Läänemetsa was not appointed for two staff members of the Constitutional Commission, no one official of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu was appointed. And the worst part is that about Kert Kingo, you gave the Health Board the wrong data, claiming you're sitting near Kert Kingo.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U12	Thank you, Kalle Grünthal! A very serious issue, but unfortunately it is not a procedural issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U13	The whole question goes on to say, the honourable Riigikogu Board, that at present self-insulation appointments are selective and therefore...... a specific medical certificate should be provided that he was ill, when he was appointed, when he was tested. [[President: Kalle Grünthal, please, I call you to order!]] It must not be allowed that... (The President: "Kalle Grünthal, third warning, we will close the microphone!") ... that such playing with the coronavirus becomes a political...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U14	I understand your serious complaints, but we have an order in the Chamber, and if it is so badly violated, then indeed, I have not done it once in my chair's work, I have not had the microphone shut down on the tables, but this is not the way forward. Peter Ernits, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U15	Yeah, I have a procedural question, but I use less words. The same case when Mr Pevkur announced that he was seriously ill. I got a call from the Health Department detective, and he talked to me about whether I should go into isolation. The subject was whether I was two meters away from Ambassador Pevkur and more than a quarter of an hour. It was a week off, and I didn't know how to answer it, I couldn't measure it. But shouldn't there be some way to draw out the sectors where somebody should be? For a long time, I was in a hesitant position to remain isolated or ice, because since Pevkur may be two metres away or closer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U16	Thank you. In fact, this is not a procedural question again, but I also agree with these complaints, because Hanno Pevkur gave me up as a close contact. They say we met on Tuesday when we had a long-distance hearing and I didn't come here at all. And on Wednesday, I was just here. So, actually, Hanno, look in the mirror and think about the purpose you gave up a lot of people. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U17	I have such a procedural remark that the Health Department says there must be a distance of two meters. And whoever's in charge of the hearing, or who's talking about the remote control, could measure it with a tape, but I think it's two meters. So it's okay to have the chairman of the hearing without a mask. Nothing's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U18	We have had a lot of talk about setting an example, and that is what I am trying to do in the best way. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U19	Thank you. I thank you that my personal subject has been under discussion here for so long, but I can assure you that, as in the case of the Isamaa Group, in my case, the Health Board took up a map of the Chamber of the Riigikogu and, therefore, began to look at who is close to one person or another. At least that's what the detectives who called you explained to me. And the Health Department did its job in my opinion with full commitment, just like they have to do in this situation. I think we could end this debate now and go to the Riigikogu sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U20	Thank you. Madis Milling, please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U21	Thank you very much, Mr President. A moment ago, you mentioned a personal example. Please tell me the personal example of those members of the Riigikogu who are in this Chamber without a mask!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U22	Thank you. They do not set a good example; I agree completely. But I believe that now we can move on with our hearing. The subject was the specification and approval of the agenda. The Committee on the Environment has proposed to remove the second item from the agenda of this working week's Wednesday session, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Rural Affairs entitled "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to determine the volume of aquaculture on the high seas." Together with this amendment, I will vote on the approval of the 5th working week agenda of the V Plenary Session of the Riigikogu. Priit Onions, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U23	Yeah, thanks! I have a question. The Isamaa Group sent you a letter, it's also in the EMS, and I understand you've read it. Here's the question. Hanno said we're about to discuss whether we're going to a remote hearing in our work or whether we're going to a contact session. While we're here to admire our belly button and to organise our work, I really want the Prime Minister's mouth to see where the government has come to. Have you had time to talk to the Prime Minister? Since you did not propose that his review be on the agenda of this week, when can the Prime Minister come before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U24	Thank you. Yeah, that statement got to me. Certainly the Prime Minister also received an invitation to come to the Riigikogu and give us an overview of the corona situation and the measures already implemented and planned in the form of a political statement. So far, however, no answer has come from Toompea. But personally, I fully support this proposal. And since the inclusion of a political statement on the agenda may also take place outside the weekly agenda, I am prepared to put it there, even tomorrow, if the Prime Minister's consent comes. And the sooner it comes, the better. Urmas Reinsalu, please! Is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U25	No, it's not. We are now dealing with the proposals on the agenda, right, the adoption of the agenda. Here's what I propose. We have a situation where there has been very clear evidence from the members of the scientific council concerning the widespread spread of the virus. And there are also signals that the new government is planning its own activities in this area. It would be necessary for Parliament to have an overview of the position of the new government in relation to the input provided by the Scientific Advisory Board on the systematic application of possible anti-virus measures in the country, without delay. I think it is reasonable that we include the Prime Minister's report on this subject on the agenda of this working week without delay. If the situation is that we do not have any information or feedback from the Prime Minister, I have a proposal to take the chairman's break and receive this feedback from the Prime Minister. I do not think that there is a more important issue to be dealt with by a representative of the people when there is the fight against the virus, the fight against all the consequences that this virus will have for society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U26	Thank you. Certainly, as soon as the Prime Minister agrees to make his report, we will put it on the agenda. There is no doubt about that. However, any additions to the agenda are possible only if all political groups in the Riigikogu Chamber agree. If any political group disagrees, this addition shall not be put to the vote. So I'm asking if everyone agrees. What is the position of the political groups? Do you agree with this proposal? Looks like there's no objection. Then we turn on the Prime Minister's political statement... Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U27	I'm sorry! I don't understand Mr. Chairman now. How can we put something on the agenda if we don't have a waitress? If the Prime Minister has been proposed and is able to come here before us, he will certainly signal it. It's always been that way. I don't remember exactly when, but months ago, it was the same. As Chairman of the Riigikogu, you yourself said that if the Prime Minister can come, of course he will come here and we will put it on the agenda. This is not the way to put one thing on the agenda, that someone in this hall is simply proposing that we put one point on Thursday. The Bureau hasn't even discussed it at all, and now you're putting this thing to a vote. I can't! Or do you want to put something in without a vote? That's not how it works. You know very well how the Rules of Procedure regulate the addition of one point or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U28	Yes, it would only have been added in principle, because no group was opposed. It is true that if, on Monday, a group proposes to include a matter on the agenda and the other groups do not agree, even if only one political group is opposed, it will not be included on the agenda. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U29	I think that dialogue between the government and Parliament is very important in planning anti-viral activities. I would argue that there is no alternative to this in a parliamentary country. As regards the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Act, to which Mr Vice-Chairman drew attention, Parliament will undoubtedly endorse the agenda for this working week. A concrete proposal has come to supplement this working week's agenda with a political presentation by the Prime Minister, which should be followed by negotiations and also by the possibility of asking questions concerning the situation in the country in which the disease is being controlled and the measures envisaged. As regards the day that the Prime Minister would like, at which time, to do so, my suggestion was that the President of the sitting, Mr President of the Riigikogu, take a break from the President, contact the speaker and give us feedback on which day of this working week is best suited. So my proposal is to take a 30-minute break from the manager, contact the Prime Minister and get feedback on which day is appropriate. As the President of the Riigikogu rightly pointed out: no group questioned the need for this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U30	Thank you. Yes, of course it is perfectly understandable that the Riigikogu needs such an overview, there is no doubt about that. And the sooner the better. I remember last time it really was that if such an invitation was made to Jüri Ratas on Friday and he didn't make that political statement on Monday, then the resentment was very great. He made it on Tuesday. And I hope that the present Prime Minister will also respond to this as soon as possible. But for the explanation of the situation, I read § 155 (1) of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act: "The President of the Republic, Prime Minister and ministers are entitled to make a political statement at the Riigikogu session. Other officials present at the session of the Riigikogu with presentations or reviews provided for in the Constitution or Act of the Republic of Estonia. " So, unfortunately, we do not have the right to oblige him to make a political statement here, but we can make this proposal and stress its importance very strongly. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U31	Thank you. Now that you have read the point of the Home and Working Procedures Act, you have actually said what Mr Pevkur also explained: that Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has today received an invitation to come before the Riigikogu. As far as I know, it was between 10:00 and 12. It is clear that the Prime Minister's day is busy and may be busy. But I believe there will be an answer as soon as possible. And as the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure say, the Prime Minister has the right to come here. He's been invited. And I think the Riigikogu will accept the Prime Minister's wish whenever he wishes to come here. We can't put the item on the agenda that he has to come here at any particular moment. Flexibility exists, the Riigikogu is open to listen to the Prime Minister, has presented this invitation. My proposal is to move forward with the prepared agenda. The proposal to add something that has not been agreed on to the agenda in any other way is certainly not supported by the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U32	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U33	Thank you, good Chairman! In the debate, we have come to the point that it is important for some parties, for some of them it is not. In my opinion, it is not ethical to discuss and decide today whether the Riigikogu would go to teleworking if we could see that no member of the Riigikogu has fallen ill. We don't have any information on what's going on right now. I'll tell my constituents that we went to telework because we thought it was better this way. This problem does not really matter, because the Reform Party did not see this problem and even for the Prime Minister it does not matter. We want to be online and know what the situation is. How do we still vote on teleworking?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U34	Thank you. That's what we're coming to. We haven't gotten there yet. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U35	I will come back to my first question, or rather to the proposal to add it to the agenda. Of course, Parliament can add to the agenda if all the groups of ambassadors agree to it, and in this situation I am very pleased that Mr Gridship has indicated that Parliament is open. This is a very important starting point for finding a solution to this issue. Parliament is open and wishes to listen to the Prime Minister's review of the most acute issue in the country. The question now is that it is a Parliament proposal and a call, but on what day could this report be made? Understandably, the Prime Minister is busy, and what day this week would be suitable for the Prime Minister depends on his work schedule. However, I think it is reasonable that, while planning Parliament's working time, we can give a clear signal by approving this agenda that the representative of the people considers this issue so important that it considers it necessary to include it on the agenda of this working week's plenary. And in order to find out which day and whether he is willing to come to this presentation on behalf of the government, I ask the President of the sitting to announce a break to contact the Prime Minister. After receiving feedback, we could properly plan this report on the plenary agenda, as the Rules of Procedure law allows.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U36	Thank you. Just as you, Mr Reinsalu, have pointed out, the Reform Party has already taken the view that they do not agree with any of these improvements. So this specification of the agenda cannot go to the vote. But I hope the Prime Minister answers as soon as possible. I'll take it personally when the time for my chair runs out, get in touch with him, and then we'll be clear on the picture. And as it sounded here on several occasions, I'm ready to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to give this presentation any day. I hope it's tomorrow. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U37	Yeah, quick line. Dear President, I may be helping my colleague Reinsalu. I understand he's got a lot of questions for the Prime Minister, but there's a full format for that. We have Question Time on Wednesday and there will be nice answers to all the questions very quickly and even a debate with the Prime Minister, which may not be possible in the course of a political statement. So, good Urmas, I think that in your long parliamentary experience, you will also remember how the Riigikogu Board prepares the agenda for the grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. And there has really been no such procedure before that, after a letter from a group this morning, the large Chamber of Parliament will change the agenda of this House. So I believe, Urmas, that there is no point in continuing this political debate here. Let's go to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U38	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U39	Thank you. I can say to my colleague, Mr Gridship, that indeed, the Rules of Procedure Act is nuanced. It also provides for special cases where political groups do not have the right to veto the agenda. The political statements made by the members of the government and the subsequent negotiations are, in fact, one of the cases. There are more of these things. I'm sure we'll learn more about it in the work we're working on. Now the question concerning my specific proposal. It was simple and clear. I understand Mr. Pevkur's approach. He says please, we have Question Time. However, it is important for Parliament, at least for some Members, to deal with this issue during this working week. Of course, I agree with the logic of the Rules of Procedure Act that it requires the Prime Minister's willingness to come before Parliament, the will to do so. No one can force him. We are legally not entitled to decide on this issue in disregard of the Prime Minister's will. And for us to be able to identify the will and willingness of the Prime Minister on any day of this working week that he or she wishes to come to Parliament with a report, it makes sense to take a break, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I repeat my proposal. That's not a small question. The restrictions proposed in the coming days concern the functioning of society as a whole in the coming months. I think it would be wise to take it for a few minutes, interrupt the hearing and ask the Prime Minister's will. If that will exists, we will be able to put this issue on the agenda. It does not extend to anyone's veto, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure Act. In this way, we can proceed with the implementation of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U40	Thank you. You quite rightly mentioned that no political group can veto the wish to make a political statement when it comes from the Prime Minister. And that's a wish I haven't seen in this hall today. On the contrary, in fact, all parties have found that this is necessary. When a similar political statement was expected from Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, I announced a break to discuss it. In accordance with the analogy, I am now announcing a break of 20 minutes in order for all members of the Riigikogu to receive an answer to this question as soon as possible. I'll contact the Prime Minister. Break 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U41	Dear Riigikogu, the intermission is over. I inform you that, unfortunately, I did not manage to contact the Prime Minister. His advisors promised to search for the Prime Minister, get in touch with him, and promised to send this reply as soon as possible. Peter Ernits, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U42	Unfortunately, Mr President discriminated against me before the break. But I wanted to tell you, and now it is the right place to say that my colleague here over the aisle offered earlier that this is such an important question that he could take a two-hour break. However, this proposal was not taken into account. So I support Signe Kivi's proposal to take a two-hour break. He didn't say it himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U43	Thank you. I think let Signe Kivi make that suggestion himself if he has a wish. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U44	That is not the proposal I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U45	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U46	Thank you, good Chairman! I recall as soon as February 13, 2019, when we wanted the Prime Minister's position. And then we waited three hours for the Prime Minister's position when he distributed chocolate there. We do not know what is now being distributed, but we would still wait for the Prime Minister's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U47	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U48	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu, perhaps you could describe the way forward. I appreciate you taking a break and trying to get in touch with the Prime Minister. It makes perfect sense. Question: how can we proceed with this issue in order to get the Prime Minister's feedback and decide on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U49	His office was allowed to send this feedback as soon as possible. Aadu Black, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U50	In the history of Estonia, in the history of Estonian parliamentarianism, there was such a thing as cow trading. Then it turned out there was no cow, there was no money, but there was still a trade. People today don't know what that means. Apparently, we're making history. After today, the word 'cow trading' has a new content in Parliament. But maybe we should just keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U51	Thank you. I don't think that's gonna give the concept of cow trading any new meaning, and it's gonna happen here in the near future. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U52	Thank you. I support Mr Black's position and I also propose that we move forward with the implementation of the agenda. In response to my colleague Reinsalu, there is nothing to prevent the Riigikogu from moving forward with its work. After all, the Prime Minister has received this message this afternoon that certain groups are asking him to speak here about the situation caused by the virus. The Prime Minister is able to think this proposal through calmly and, as you quoted earlier, to inform the Riigikogu of your decision. We have confirmed today that we are prepared to welcome the Prime Minister here nicely. We do not have to spend any more time on this debate, all the more so because we are not at the remote session today, we are here on the ground. The viral situation in the country is serious and the longer we sit together in this Chamber, the greater the threat we can actually pose to each other. All the more so because some of us still don't wear masks. Perhaps my specific proposal: let us move forward with the implementation of the sitting and move on to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U53	Thank you. Mart Helme, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U54	I'll make a procedural proposal. Since it seems that the MPs are in an unstoppable turn of speech, I propose that we proceed now, while we await the Prime Minister's office's response, to the free microphone round.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U55	This is a very nice proposal, but unfortunately, our rules of procedure do not allow it. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U56	I heard such an alarming line here. The leader of the Tokyo Olympics was reduced because he said women talk too much. And now Mr Black was talking about a cow about the Prime Minister. Let me get this straight, or what's the deal here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U57	Thank you. What can I say about that? Aadu Black, please! Or Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U58	Thank you, Mr President. There is such a feeling, however, that a large part of Parliament is slowing down in order for the unity of the European Union to not finally be achieved, so as not to deal with the statement that we have here on the agenda. Is that so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U59	I cannot say anything about the unity of the European Union here, and it is hardly on our procedural issues. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U60	Thank you. I heard the leader of the Reform Party Group point out that the Prime Minister received the message. I heard the message from the President of the Riigikogu that he has not been contacted by the Prime Minister. I have a question whether the Prime Minister has received this request and, if so, what is his feedback. It's actually unclear to me right now. As for the fact that we are moving forward with the agenda without stretching, I will totally join in on all the proposals that were made here. We must go without stretching to confirm the agenda that deals with the most important issues that the legislator should be dealing with this week. We'll deal with the unimportant, too, but first we'll deal with the important. That was the whole point of my proposal, which I drew attention to when the agenda was adopted. Here's what I propose. I would ask the President of the Riigikogu to formulate a proposal, if all the parliamentary groups would join it, so that the Prime Minister would present a political presentation this week on the situation caused by the coronavir situation in the country. It's his right, not his duty. In that case, we will be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U61	Thank you. I'm sure the Prime Minister has received this appeal. It's gone official down the road to Stenbock's house. And there is also a letter with my signature on the fact that this proposal came from the Isamaa Group. I support this, and I am ready to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to come to this Chamber to present the situation, too, as soon as possible. I'm sorry I haven't gotten him on the phone, but the counsellors promised to send a reply as soon as possible. I believe and hope that the Prime Minister will come here as soon as possible, because the question is very important, very urgent and any delay would be very incomprehensible. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U62	I'm still worried about what this colleague from the Centre Party sounded like. I wonder who this cow is in this game?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U63	Thank you. I don't know what to say. Well, it must be the moment of each one's own self-recognition, whom he professes to be. But I think, in fact, we do not have any cows in this Riigikogu, but are members of the Riigikogu. But it seems to me that now we are done with these questions and are going to the adoption of the agenda. I would remind you that the Committee on the Environment has proposed that the second item of the agenda of the Wednesday session be deleted, i.e. the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the Proposal for the Government of the Republic to determine the volume of aquaculture on the high seas... Urmas Reinsalu, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U64	It's not procedural. There is just a note on the agenda. I think that Parliament on the agenda needs to be approved, but I want to express the hope that all the political groups in the Riigikogu will really support this proposal for the Prime Minister to make a presentation this week, and we can go to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U65	I really hope so. Indeed, the other way around would be a little strange. But as I read before in our Home and Working Procedures Act, the request must come from the Prime Minister, and I will undoubtedly give it the opportunity as soon as possible. And now, along with the change that has been read before, I shall vote on the approval of the agenda for the fifth working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U66	There are 64 members of the Riigikogu to approve the agenda, 13 against and 2 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Let's keep going. Honourable Riigikogu, we have another vote to make. The Bureau discussed whether the plenary sessions would be held in ordinary form or in the form of a remote sitting during this working week, but no consensus could be reached. Therefore, Hanno Pevkur, a member of the Management Board, wishes to put this question to the vote on the basis of § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. For clarification before the vote so much that, since today's sitting has begun, we cannot transform it into a remote sitting on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure Act, today's session will continue until the agenda is exhausted. So we can vote for a remote sitting starting tomorrow, i.e. between 16 and 18. February. Tarmo Kruusimäe, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U67	Thank you! Well, I understand the Prime Minister isn't coming here today, and tomorrow the Prime Minister is going to talk to an empty hall because we've transferred to a remote presence. Is this remote participation really important now? Basically, we can also look at the AK as the Prime Minister says. We still want a parliamentary debate to take place. How dangerous is our situation here, and is it possible to come to the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U68	Yes, that is a very good question, and now it all depends on how the Riigikogu votes: whether Hanno Pevkur's proposal to move from tomorrow to remote sessions this week or whether we will continue in the normal form. And if we go to remote sessions, then indeed all honourable members of the Riigikogu have a choice whether to follow the Prime Minister's review in this hall or via the Internet. So everything depends on this vote. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U69	Thank you very much. Dear President, can I find out the reasons why we should switch to remote participation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U70	Mr Pevkur referred to the epidemiological situation in Estonia. The number of people affected is regrettably high. His reasoning was that there is a high risk of spreading the virus when we sit here together, and that is why we could go to a remote hearing. I filed an objection. The last time the board decided to move to a remote session, at the time of the decision, there was one infected member of the Riigikogu, and a number of members of the Riigikogu were self-instructed. We do not currently have such a situation. The transition to a remote session requires compelling reasons in accordance with established procedures, and since the situation is better than it was last, I did not consider it necessary to switch to teleworking. That's the explanation. I hope Hanno Pevkur agrees that I quite accurately passed the matter on. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U71	Thank you. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, if we sum up the discussion of the Bureau very quickly, my proposal was, given the epidemiological situation and also the need for the Riigikogu to set an example, to take this week and also next week's sittings with remote participation. Today, I know that there is a close contact in the Centre Party Group who has been assigned home, and there is a close-up suspicion in the Isamaa Group, the justification of which will be revealed tomorrow morning. All the risks with sitting in this room should be ruled out. It's even evil that we've been here so long. In fact, it would make sense to have this vote without further questions and to decide on the matter. And it would make sense to do that for this week and next week. It does not appear that the epidemiological situation will significantly improve in two weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U72	Thank you. We cannot vote on the question next week here because we did not discuss it in the Bureau. We did not get a consensus on this week in the Bureau, and that is why we are discussing this in this large Chamber. However, no member of the Riigikogu can be prevented from asking questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U73	Thank you, Mr President. I understand, of course, the concern of a good colleague, Hanno Pevkur, that infection in the Republic of Estonia is very high. However, as we have noted, different corona restrictions have been imposed in different regions. And if you come into the environment where we are now, the situation isn't very frightening. And those who are in close contact or suspected are already self-insulated. Perhaps you could say that there are no compelling reasons for going to a remote hearing. There's no objective reason for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U74	Thank you. Yes, indeed, statements from political groups have had to be transferred to teleworking for objective reasons in the past, but the Bureau has not accepted them. Our procedure provides for compelling reasons, and the board will then have a discretion in making its decision. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U75	Thank you. I just want to point out that yes, indeed, there is a close-up in our group, he cannot participate in the work of the Riigikogu. But there is also a fundamental question here: how many members of the Riigikogu must be next to the exercise of their mandate. Anyone who wishes to enter the hall will continue to have this opportunity. A person who is not allowed to come out of his home does not have this option, unless we vote on this remote session. So anyone who wishes, including those who attended a council meeting without a mask, has a chance to come to this hall. But anyone who doesn't want to be in the same room with him can take part at a distance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U76	Yes, indeed, it is. Those in isolation, too, basically allow their immunity to come here. However, there are situations where we have one or two or even quite a few members of the Riigikogu who, for some reason, have been absent from the sitting, in fact quite normal. And the procedure for conducting our remote sittings is precisely that there must be a compelling reason for this, if, for example, the whole group is missing, etc. So that's the point. The board has so far made a separate decision every week, looking at the situation. And we've usually come to a consensus, not this time. And now it's in this big room for discussion. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U77	Thank you. I would like to point out that when we made an amendment to the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the corona apandemia, the question of no abuse of the remote session was a very important issue. And that is why certain parameters were established from which to go to a long-distance hearing from the country. And these parameters were: at least one fifth of the members of the Riigikogu are not allowed to participate in one or two people or one or two of each group, but at least one fifth, or 20 or 21 members of the Riigikogu or one whole group. We don't have that situation. We hear that we have a contact person in one group, which means that it is not even really known if he is infected or not. And right now, we're not gonna be able to figure out how long he's gonna be in self-insulation or when he's gonna find out. The fact that there are no people present in the Riigikogu session in our group is one person missing from this session today for another reason is a normal practice in the work of the Riigikogu. This is not a reason for holding a remote hearing. And when we talk about the example here, forgive me, but the 101 people who have been elected by the people to the Riigikogu, who have the integrity of the ambassador, who have expenses and other things, well, we can set an example in a hundred ways, but not because we are not bothering to come to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U78	Yes, thank you! That's right. Our turn makes provision for a certain situation in order to go to teleworking. This must not become a normal practice. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U79	Thank you. Before I told you how I had to stew for a long time because of my colleague Pevkur, whether I was close to you or not. And now I heard from my colleague Pevkur that one of the colleagues in the Fatherland is also a suspect. Isn't it a Helir-Valdor Seeder or a colleague Sester sitting two meters away from me? Do you have any details?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U80	Yeah, there's a name that hit the spot, but he's home, just in case, he won't be here. And he's not sick or infected, he's just someone close to him. His rehearsal, the test result should be clear, I don't know for sure if it's gonna be by this morning or tomorrow morning. But it's not a matter of an infected person, as we know at the moment. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U81	Thank you. Martin Helme has a great right in what we discussed at the time when this bill was being processed in both the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic in spring. Then we had to give our opinion. But the debate basically went around another thing, and that was what happens when people start to abuse it, for example, during foreign missions or for other reasons. I gave examples of a completely different situation: when a country prohibits a person from leaving home because he is self-insulated or he has a COVID-19. This is an absolutely different situation. Then he will not be able to implement the mandate, unless he has gone to a remote hearing. In fact, I say again: anyone who wishes to come to the hall has this opportunity. Those who are cautious at a remote hearing can participate in a remote session. I would remind you once again that we are currently among the five countries with the highest levels of infection in Europe. Our color is dark red, which means that we are considered a particularly dangerous country in Europe. What are we even discussing?! What other objective reasons do we need?!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U82	Yes, thank you! This is all right, except for one small nuance: a member of the Riigikogu cannot be prevented from coming to this Chamber, whether it is a remote session or a regular sitting, or we are taking some sort of vote here. A member of the Riigikogu has the right to attend, whether he or she has a positive or a negative coronal test. But I very much hope that no one will abuse this opportunity. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U83	Thank you. It seems to me that, under the leadership of certain delegates, our Parliament is being dragged to the five most stupid European Parliaments. We have an example of how a number of people from the Isamaa Group suffered from illness and were self-insulated. They're in this room right now, and there's no disaster. In my very clear belief, this whole corona and the long-distance hearing have been transformed into an instrument of political gambling. I can also prove this by saying that when I received a call from the Health Board regarding my colleague, Mr Pevkur, I specifically asked that Mr Pevkur had not given up his group members. That's what I was told. That's what I was told! I asked about a lot of people, including your benchmate, and I was told, no, she's not on my list. Maybe he was on another list. But why was the EKRE group halfway? Yeah, get your finger up, you're a coroner since spring, we all know that. So this is a pure political gamble that is being dealt with here, and I have a serious proposal to put an end to this political gamble.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U84	Thank you. Indeed, the exploitation of the corona for any purpose, especially for political purposes, is very ugly and unacceptable. But Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U85	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I categorically reject Mart Helme's lies in this hall. There was no such thing! The health department has been talking for a very long time about who the people I've had contact with in these one or two days. And different people are calling from the Health Department. I think that the Chairman of the Riigikogu should really finish this up right now and discuss it somewhere between themselves if anyone wants to, but right now we should vote whether or not we are going to a remote session and start our work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U86	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U87	Good manager! However, I must object to Mr Pevkur at the moment. When the Health Department detective called me, he said that colleague Pevkur turned me in. But as a result of the negotiations, I managed not to go into self-insulation because it was said that there would be no need.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U88	Thank you. It was the same with me. I explained that I haven't been in contact with him, and then it was said that you really don't have to go into isolation. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U89	Mr President, thank you very much. Let's talk about the contents. As has already been said here, we are now at the top of the infection in Europe. The mortality rate of younger people is also increasing. We have a ratio of four times the number of infected people in Scandinavia. And when it comes to parliaments in other countries, I have quite a lot of contacts, there is a long time ago the opportunity that we are discussing today. Still to avoid the risk, if possible. We'll be sitting in this hall for hours. We don't have two meters apart from that! just a lot of people don't count on other people, and the mask doesn't wear. In such circumstances, everyone should have the right to choose whether or not I come to this hall is an elementary right. And if you say that people who have given a positive test may also come to the hall, I would very much ask that we do not go on and argue about things that are not substantive and we take a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U90	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U91	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. First of all, I am calling across the bench, so that we refrain from referring to specific people who have been exposed to the virus, regardless of political power. I don't think there's anything to be ashamed of. People have been sick or in close contact. I don't think it makes any sense for us to drag this political struggle into the field. The second question: I support the proposal to go to the hybrid session on the basis of the arguments put forward above. However, I do not think that we should decide on this for a longer period, it should remain a weekly, weekly decision. At the same time, we must take into account that, according to current epidemiological indicators, it is likely that we will make a decision based on all of this more than a month or two, rather than three. Hopefully, the virus will be more effectively controlled during this time. And the third thing that is extremely important. We should move from this to Mr President of the sitting to this, and I consider it important to stress, in the interests of the verbatim report, that it is not a question of whether a particular Member can take part in the sitting or not. We are now talking about a confidence measure to prevent infection by probabilities: simply, if so many people are in one room, someone could be a carrier of the virus. So we make a decision based on the general spread of the virus in the country, not whether or not a particular person can participate. If we go into this interpretation practice, I join the Chairman of the Riigikogu: there is always someone who cannot participate in the session under any other human or self-independent circumstances. Are we, then, going to change the whole logic of this Parliament, which says that Parliament is holding sittings in the castle of Toompea? Are we going to make it any different? I think it goes against our principles. My proposal is to approve these decisions for weeks and to try to reach consensus on these issues when discussing the Riigikogu's board and, if necessary, with the Council of Elders. The Estonian people expect us to deal with coronavirism in Estonia, not in our institution. In our organization, I think, we can do this hopefully by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U92	Thank you. The Bureau has so far been guided by the practice that we have made this decision on a weekly basis. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U93	I have a very quick proposal by grabbing on this last word and also by grabbing on what Urmas said. Perhaps, however, it would be wise for me this morning to write this board list also to make this decision for this and next week. Then we'll be able to make a decision until the week is open, and we'll be able to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U94	Thank you. Unfortunately, since we did not have this proposal in the Bureau, we cannot extend it this way. However, we will be able to take a decision on this week in the vote and discuss the future practice in the Bureau again. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U95	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Could you explain why a decision cannot be taken for two weeks, if you already have a proposal from several political groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U96	The Governing Board shall discuss specific issues, specific decisions, and decisions shall be taken by consensus. If this consensus is not found, the specific question will go to the big hall for decision. It is precisely the one where there was a difference of opinion, not the other and not the extension of this issue. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U97	Thank you. I join all those colleagues who have pointed out that if, in the current pandemic situation, we can reduce the risk of infection here in the Riigikogu, it is very reasonable to do so. And I also remind colleagues who oppose it that the Riigikogu could have played a role, and in the past it has played a role as an example. If we put the whole society to heart that if you can, please do teleworking, then the Riigikogu could also act like this and set an example. If we can reduce the risk of infection by doing as much teleworking as possible, we will do so in a situation where the infection rates are the highest throughout the pandemic, where Estonia's infection rates are growing and, unfortunately, we have reached the top of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U98	Thank you. All MPs will have the opportunity to vote on this as soon as the questions are over. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U99	Thank you, Speaker of the Riigikogu. Here I propose that you take a break and discuss the matter. It is certainly not appropriate to devote an hour and a half to this topic every Monday. Perhaps it would be wise to make a two-week decision today. Therefore, the President could take a break, get a nonconsensual decision, and then we would be voting in the Chamber for two weeks now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U100	Thank you. We are still voting here on the decision of the last Bureau meeting. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, during this discussion it becomes increasingly clear that the current coalition wishes to avoid the uncomfortable opposition and essentially paralyse the work of the Riigikogu. And if there are already proposals that why we should not start approving something here for several weeks, then next, we can probably expect coalition ambassadors to propose that Parliament be temporarily disbanded by reference to the corona. What you are doing here, respected coalition ambassadors, is absolutely irrational. I'm sorry to be so open, but it's irrational.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U102	Thank you. I hope that we will not reach the end of this Parliament. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U103	Thank you! I do not agree with the expression of a good coworker, Indrek Saare, that we are taking advantage of this opportunity. It's not like we're at Charlie's chocolate factory. What I want to say is how, in this hour and a half, we have still not been able to find out whether there will be a government representative here who will tell us: the good ambassadors, the situation is like this and this. I'm just hearing the stories of my co-workers who say, according to the newspapers, that's the situation. Clearly, the members of the government are much better informed, and that is what I would like to know from them. How else am I going to tell the voters that we were told there that the situation was bad, so we went to teleworking. And now I'm asking, has anyone from the government said that? To date, no government representatives have responded in an hour and a half. Is it possible to find a government representative to tell us something?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U104	Thank you. I just checked my phone during your question. I have not received a message from the Prime Minister, no e-mail, nor did he call me back. Unfortunately. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U105	Thank you, President-in-Office. Right now, I'm starting to wonder if our prime minister is still in good health or if there's something...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U106	I'm afraid I don't. It seems to me that the questions have run out and we can go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Hanno Pevkur, Member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, proposing that plenary sessions be held between 16 and 18. 2 February in the form of a remote sitting. Mart Helme, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U107	There was no signal yet, at least this time I'd ask for a signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U108	Yeah, the signal's coming. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the proposal by Mr Pevkur, Bureau member, to move the plenary sessions between 16 and 18. 2 February in the form of a remote sitting. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U109	The proposal is adopted by 72 votes to 17, with 1 abstention. The proposal has been accepted. From tomorrow, from the 16th to the 18th, we will have sittings in the form of remote participation. And then the board will decide on further practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U110	Now, let's go to the first item on the agenda today, which is the first reading of Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good ambassadors! The Monetary Commission discussed the draft decision " Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank" at its extraordinary meeting on 9 February. Jürgen Ligi, a member of the Riigikogu instead of Andres Sut, is appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Jürgen Ligi has provided written confirmation that he meets the requirements of a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and has agreed to be appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, to propose a final vote on the draft and to appoint a spokesperson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U112	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Looks like there's no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. Therefore, the lead committee has proposed that the final vote on the draft 332 be carried out and that vote is secret. Here comes the sergeant. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank 332. This is a final vote, and pursuant to Article 79 (2) (6) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, it is secret. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U113	There are 69 members of the Riigikogu, one against and one abstention. The draft decision has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U114	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu statement "in support of a common foreign policy for the European Union and for the protection of civil liberties in Russia." Let me remind you of the rules of procedure. The presentation of the representative of the drafters shall be up to 20 minutes; the presentation of the representative of the commission shall also be up to 20 minutes. In total, each member of the Riigikogu can ask each of them one oral question, the length of which is one minute. Then there will be negotiations, which will be open to representatives of the political groups and committees, followed by a review of the amendments and a final vote. I would like to ask Marko Mihkelson, member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress in this chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft statement was initiated last week by 57 members of the Riigikogu of all political parties represented in our parliament to draw attention to one of the most important issues of Estonian foreign and security policy: how to ensure the unity of our western allies in their internal and foreign policies in the increasingly aggressive neighbourhood of Russia? In our statement, as the title also says, the focus is on two main issues. Both the current state of the European Union's common foreign policy and the repressive behaviour of Russia's power structures in suppressing the freedoms of its citizens are critical to the security of Estonia, our immediate neighbourhood and, more generally, the entire Western world. Two factors led to the preparation of the application at the same time. Firstly, the democratic Western world cannot remain indifferent in the Member State of the Council of Europe, Russia has been a member since 1996 in relation to the suppression of civil liberties, which uses systematic and widespread repressive power. The dramatic events of the last few months began last August, when the Russian special services poisoned the opposition politician Alexei Navalny in Tomsk. Thanks to the pilots and Tomski's doctors, Navalny's life was saved. After a long course of treatment in Berlin, Navalnyi returned to his homeland last month, but the authorities arrested him before the official border crossing. The arrest of Navalny, despite an earlier decision of the European Court of Human Rights, and the actual imprisonment and prosecution of new charges, provoked spontaneous protests in many cities across Russia. Over 10,000 people were arrested by the authorities during peaceful protests on 23 and 31 January. The way in which they were detained and the fate of those arrested showed that the power structures were working for one particular goal: to scare people voluntarily to abandon the demands for civil liberties guaranteed by Russia's own constitution. The Council of Europe was established in 1949 on the ruins of World War II to protect human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Europe in order to prevent new disasters. It is on the basis of these criteria that European countries are united to protect democratic values and the freedoms of their citizens, and this is what they are committed to. The Council of Europe currently has 47 Member States with a total population of 820 million. Unfortunately, Russia was granted very great concessions to become a member of the Council of Europe in 1996. I would point out that as early as 17 February 1994, the Estonian Foreign Minister and our good colleague Jüri Luik said from this very speech chair: "It is unacceptable that a country that claims to be a member of the Council of Europe and tries to democratise its society will build its foreign policy on the doctrine according to which the world is divided into spheres of influence between it and other countries. This world approach is part of the time and thinking of the totalitarian nations before World War II." It is important to remember that then nobody in the world knew who Vladimir Putin or Sergei Lavrov was. Many in Europe hoped that the integration of Russia into the Council of Europe's legal criteria and the protection of the Human Rights Court would help Russia build a free and democratic society on its complex path. Unfortunately, later years have witnessed reverse development: unlike Russia's own constitutional clauses on civil liberties regarding respect, the country has increasingly retreated to authoritarianism, to lawlessness. The impunity syndrome of the authorities from the Chechnya Wars, which began with the Chechnya repression, has today destroyed the few shoots that arose after the break-up of the Soviet Empire. The strengthening of authoritarianism in Russia has also directly affected the country's foreign policy to become increasingly aggressive and anti-Western, although there were signs of this already in the early 1990s. The main reason for this is the deep ideological conflict with the democratic world. It is perfectly understandable why the Russian authorities have reacted very nervously to every democratic revolution in Georgia, Ukraine or Belarus, considering them to be the plot of Western intelligence services. The Kremlin is well aware that the emergence of democracy in those countries that were once forced to be part of the Russian Empire paves the way for the collapse of authoritarianism in Russia as well. Ladies and gentlemen, Russia's future will be decided by its citizens. It's not our place to say what their choice is. However, we cannot and must not remain indifferent if, as a member of the Council of Europe, Russia has consistently ignored its international obligations in guaranteeing the freedoms and rights of its own citizens, all the more so when it is accompanied by increasing aggression in foreign policy and apparent permissiveness in diplomacy. This was felt in the most authentic way by the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Policy, Josep Borrell, who had to endure diplomatic humiliation during his visit to Moscow. I don't think Borrell's visit failed just because of a lack of preparation or a naive delusion. Yes, Russia in the West has often been underestimated or subjected to wishful thinking, but Russia's public behaviour so brutal would not have been anticipated by many experienced diplomats. Borrell fell under this pressure and was unable to defend himself or the common European interests. But it is not about what Borrell did or did not do in Moscow. What is more important is the effectiveness of the policies of the Western countries, including the European Union, in opposing Russia's aggressive foreign policy. That is the second key factor in our statement today. EU-Russia relations are currently at their historic low point. Since 1993, when the first structures of the European Union's common foreign and security policy were established following the Maastricht Treaty, there has never been such a critical situation between Brussels and Moscow. The Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, even made it so far a few days ago that he threatened to break off relations with the European Union. Behind this rhetoric, there is a clear desire to influence the Member States of the European Union to refrain from imposing more severe sanctions. Moscow is trying to give the impression that they are under unfair pressure and attack from the West, knowingly forgetting what are the real causes or motives of sanctions by the European Union and other Western countries. The partial occupation of Georgian territory, annexation of Crimea and continuation of aggression in Eastern Ukraine, as well as the use of the chemical weapon Novitšok in the UK in 2018 in the so-called Skripali case, interference in Western elections, cyber attacks on Western institutions and the ongoing organisation of aggressive military exercises have all had a negative impact on relations between Western countries and Russia in one long chain. The European Union has remained more responsive to discouragement of Russia's aggressive foreign policy, hoping, with less pain, to influence Moscow's behaviour. This is also natural because the European Union's common foreign policy is based on the space and level of agreement between the Member States. The common denominator, however, is always lower in the creation of a common section of so many and different countries than would be required by the foreign policy situation. The initiators of the Riigikogu statement are convinced that the interests of both Estonia and other Member States on global issues will be better protected if the European Union follows the principle of strong consensus in shaping a common foreign policy and is based on the democratic values that form the foundation of the Community. Kristi Raik, Director of the Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy, rightly points out that the European Union's policy towards Russia has not changed fundamentally since the 1990s when it was assumed that Russia was on its way to becoming a democratic rule of law. If we want our long-term strategy in relations with Russia to actually allow constructive dialogue and solutions to be found, then the European Union's common foreign policy must include all those components that will lead us to this goal. We therefore call on the Member States of the European Union to update their policies towards Russia in the light of the authoritarian developments in Russia in recent years and its aggressive foreign policy trends. Close cooperation with the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries of the western democratic world is essential in this regard. The time for the renewal of Russia's policy is ripe. Thank you for your attention. I call on all colleagues to vote in favour of the Riigikogu statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U116	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I wanted to ask how seriously we must take the statement by the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, that Russia is prepared to cut off relations with the European Union. And an additional question: do you not think that the adoption of such a statement at this very moment will make relations between Russia and the European Union even more intense?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U118	Thank you, good Maria! These are certainly very important issues. First of all, as regards the rhetoric to which you refer, the statement made by the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs last weekend when he played in one of the religious debates with the idea that, should the European Union impose sectoral economic sanctions on Russia, Russia could cut off relations with the European Union in response to this. I would say that perhaps the more serious clue in such a short sentence was what followed: if you want peace, then prepare for war. It can be said that such messages are like words, but, in fact, let us be honest, as I said in the report before, really, in almost 30 years, the European Union's common foreign policy is about to become only 30 years old, relations between Russia and the European Union have not been as complex and divided as they are now. It seems that people speak completely different languages, with no translation and no understanding of each other. Indeed, if, in the case of Russia, we look at their own explanation of why the European Union is critical and why the European Union is talking about sanctions or further restrictions, there is no question of the occupation and annexation of Crimea in any discussion by Russia, nor is there any talk of continued aggression in Eastern Ukraine. I draw attention to the fact that last year alone, 50 Ukrainian officers and soldiers lost their lives on the Eastern Ukraine front and over 300 were wounded. Even though there's a truce, the battle still continues. After all, this is the main reason why relations between the European Union and Russia have gone downhill over the last seven years. So in this respect, I agree with you that such statements must be taken seriously. At the same time, we need to understand what is the meaning or ulterior motive of the so-called tactical steps of Russia's foreign policy. Lavrov did not use the threat of disrupting relations for the first time, for the first time in recent history, at least on 13 October last year, when, after being poisoned by Navalny, the leaders of the European Union spoke about new restrictions and possible sanctions. Now, of course, this level has reached a little higher. Given how vivid Borrell's visit to Moscow was, everyone's eyes had to be opened better in the course of this in Europe, and I mean the diplomatic humiliation that the head of the European Union's foreign policy had to go through. I would remind you that, on the same day that he met his colleague in Moscow, the Russian Foreign Minister, Russia decided to expel diplomats from three European countries, German, Swedish and Polish diplomats, and it was clearly wrong to incriminate these diplomats in violation of the Vienna Convention. But once again, what Russia has said is probably also aimed at influencing the determination of the decision-makers of the Member States of the European Union to impose new sanctions. As we heard today at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs from the Foreign Minister Liimets, the Foreign Ministers should reach an agreement on what additional restrictions could be, depending on the current situation, next Monday, next week. If you ask whether our statement today will not put further strain on the situation, I say in this way that it would probably be in the interests of Russia, if we were to hope that if we did not defend our principles, Russia would perhaps be more chubby and prepared for substantive and constructive dialogue. Then we'd do the same thing as Josep Borrell going to Moscow, hoping that good will can help us find solutions to the problems. Unfortunately, history, including the history of Russia's relations, teaches that Russia needs to be reminded from time to time that those who stand firm for their principles can also defend their interests in relations with Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U119	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U120	Thank you. Good waitress! The draft calls for stronger sanctions against Russia and the explanatory memorandum speaks of the need to jointly design an effective sanction policy. This last pair of words is definitely an oxymoron. I'll give you some examples. Sanctions of the League against Italy in 1935 in connection with the invasion of Ethiopia. Result: Italy conquered Ethiopia and concluded a steel pact with Germany. We are looking at the sanctions imposed on North Korea in relation to the nuclear programme. Result: North Korea is a strong nuclear power. The sanctions against Iran -- Iran -- it stands on an unbiased course. Sanctions, or even an economic blockade against socialist Cuba, are one of the strongest and longest-standing socialist countries in the world. So, Mr. People's Representative Mihkelson, in view of this historical experience, what are the real, tangible effects and consequences of these sanctions against Russia that you want, including Estonia and the European Union? Is it your aim to tilt Russia in the direction of nationalist withdrawal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U121	Thank you, Mr Loone. I am not just a representative of the people, Mihkelson, who would like one, the other or the third. I represent 57 members of the Riigikogu here who have initiated this draft statement. I would like to remind you of the foreign policy statements we have launched here over the last few years: the incident in the Strait of Kerch in Ukraine, the statement relating to Russian aggression against Ukraine, the statement on history memory and history Counterfeiting a year ago, as well as the statement in support of democracy in Belarus adopted last August, which I know was voted for by 92 members of the Riigikogu on a record basis. In the case of these statements, including in the preparation of this statement, representatives from all five groups worked on the text to express the broadest possible common part of the situation that we have seen both on the ground of events in the neighbouring country and on what was the result of the visit by Mr Borrell to Moscow. We know very well, and we also stress in the statement that Estonia's foreign and security policy is the more successful the more coherent we are able to address international challenges with the help of our allies, including with regard to Russia's aggression and aggressive policy. Yes, indeed, sanctions are an issue that can and should be critical of. One can ask, for example, about the sanctions imposed in 2014, which have been subsequently extended to natural persons or to legal persons responsible for the occupation and annexation of Crimea or the initiation and continuation of aggression in Eastern Ukraine, as well as the sanctions related to human rights issues, if we consider, for example, the Magnitski list. And certainly, as I pointed out in the speech, in the case of Russia, it is also a special moment that it is a Member State of the Council of Europe. It is a country that has committed itself, and even in the Constitution it has nicely mentioned, that its citizens have exactly the same rights as other democratic countries. Unfortunately, real life is very different. What, then, are these diplomatic steps and opportunities to signal that we do not agree with this behaviour? Of course, it is possible to speak at the level of the Council of Europe about whether the delegation of this country in the Parliamentary Assembly could not have the right to vote, or even question whether such a country should even be a member of the European Council. On the other hand, I finally believe that your aim is also to have as constructive relations as possible with our large neighbouring country in order to resolve existing problems diplomatically, not through threats, as we have unfortunately heard here in recent days, but through substantive and constructive cooperation and dialogue. So in this respect, I think that there is certainly a desire, expressed in the [important] statement, not only to tighten up sanctions, but also to really modernise the policy towards Russia so that one day we can reach a dialogue. Today, unfortunately, as we can see, Russia says that the European Union is not a reliable partner. We see that there is a very large deficit in relations and that it must be influenced in some way. These are instruments that can also produce influence in foreign policy, but they only work if we are united.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U122	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would like to ask that if we adopt a statement in support of a common foreign policy and the latest news from Russia is that they will be working with the individual countries of the European Union instead of the European Union, what is our future? How united are we, and what do we hope?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U124	Thank you. Very important, very good question! In fact, Russia, in some ways, betrays such rhetoric, which is very disturbing for them. Russia has always wanted to divide the European Union, has always wanted to work bilaterally mainly with European major powers. This has been historically the case, there is nothing new here. In the context of the European Union, countries are also communicating bilaterally, as is the case with Estonia. But this shows that Russia is upset if the Member States of the European Union, the Western countries together, are able to design a sanction policy or to take other measures that affect Russia. So when the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs says that he is very disturbed by economic sanctions, we read from it that, therefore, in order to influence Russia to change its policy, we need to think seriously about economic sanctions. Nord Stream 2 has been spoken for years. This has been an issue that has led to disputes between allies, between partners, and that is why we actually stress in our statement that if we are to achieve real progress in imposing such sanctions, it is very important for the European Union to work with the United States, but also with the United Kingdom, which is no longer part of the European Union. So you must read these messages and certainly not be discouraged from what we are hearing from Russia today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U125	Good waitress, no more questions for you. In processing this draft statement, we also have the opportunity to hear the presentation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by Vice-President Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 8 February, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the visit of High Representative Josep Borrell to Moscow. At this meeting, it was decided, on the proposal of the chairman of the committee, to draw up a joint statement by the Riigikogu. On 9 February, the views of the political groups were heard and a text was drawn up on the basis of it, which was also agreed by consensus. With regard to the text, we looked for a circle of supporters as broad as possible and, as the number of initiators shows, I believe that we have succeeded in this. I will perhaps say in two words why I think this statement is extremely important. Sometimes people are very critical and say, well, another statement, another statement. I think that when we think back to the time when we ourselves had problems with Soviet power, to say the least, we read with embarrassing precision every statement in the international arena every one, every major one. The statement of one democratic representative of the people has great weight. Secondly, this [statement] demonstrates consensus support for Estonia's Russian policy. This shows that, whatever governments are now or in the future, there is broad support for a single approach. And thirdly, from a diplomat's point of view, a very practical question, I believe that diplomats agree with it, is that we give the government a certain negotiating and manoeuvring space with which skilled diplomats can do a great deal. There was also a question of sanctions. In my opinion, the main objective of sanctions is that any violation of international law should have a price. Of course, we cannot expect sanctions to result in a sudden change in the behaviour of Russia or North Korea or Iran. The mission is to prevent the worst. I recall that Putin wanted to take away virtually half of Ukraine, called it Novorossijar. However, this did not happen. And I think that international sanctions also played a role in this, but also, of course, the struggle of the Ukrainian army. On 10 February, an application was submitted in support of a common foreign policy of the European Union and 57 procedures signed for the protection of civil liberties. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu appointed a commission for foreign affairs, which fixed the deadline for submitting amendments on Thursday 11 February at 12 noon. A meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs took place on the same day. There were no amendments and the Committee on Foreign Affairs made a consensual proposal to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to put the published draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 15 February. I was appointed as the representative of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U127	Thank you. You have at least one question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U128	Thank you. Dear waitress, You're a very informed person because of your former jobs. This statement mentions two names: Josep Borrell and Alexei Navalny. I could find pictures on the Internet in one minute of another person you mentioned, Alexei Navalny, running a Nazi meeting. I would find what he said, extremely anti-Semitic, I would find the materials and explain what was the forest scene in the region of Belgorod and what was Yves Rocher's. I mean, he's a criminal. Why did you decide to put such a person in this statement? He is not a mirror of democracy in Russia at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U129	I am forced to answer that question on behalf of 57 initiators. And my assessment, I believe, of what the initiators share, is that Alexei Navalnyi is now clearly the leader of the democratic opposition in Russia, both as a politician, as a human and as a very important symbol. The conduct of the Russian authorities with him best illustrates this. Not only are we talking about him being arrested right now, but they tried to kill him. On this point, our very strong allies, our great allies, have expressed their views very clearly. If we look at the Navalny politicians, we will certainly find things there that we do not like, as is probably the case with every other Russian politician in the ranks of both the government and the opposition. However, I think that the current context and the main part of Navalny's activities do speak of the fact that democratic values are very important to him and he is the leader of the Russian opposition, as I said, both as a person and as a symbol.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U130	Mr. Stalnukhin! In the case of a draft statement, a member of the Riigikogu has one question for the rapporteur. If there are no more questions, we will thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and go to the negotiations. With regard to the negotiations, I would remind you that it is possible for the political groups and the representatives of the Commission to take the floor. First on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U131	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Riigikogu! I say right now that our statement today, which will probably be adopted here soon, will probably not lead to the creation of a common foreign policy in the European Union. This is likely not to lead to Josep Borrell's resignation or even to his correction, which many have wished for. However, our statement is not of minor importance. On the contrary, it is such a positive, real step by the Riigikogu over a long time. If you think about the last few years, yes, we have repeatedly emphasised in this Chamber and especially in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that there is a cross-party consensus in the Riigikogu in foreign policy, that foreign policy is not used as an internal malana and that all parliamentary parties stand united for the interests of Estonia. Unfortunately, as we know, this has not always been the case in practice and, in recent times, even on a growing scale. That is why, in addition to the importance of foreign policy, today's statement has, in my view, such a fine internal political significance. A truce has been made between political parties for a long time, and it might even be said that everyone has reached the point of understanding with Navalny and Borrell's visit has contributed to this in some way, that the fights between them over the details must be rejected, when the world order is raging around us and Estonia's basic interests are at risk. So, indeed, we were able to agree on the text of this statement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs without any particular dispute. The members of all the political parties of the Riigikogu agreed to put their hands on it, and hopefully the majority of the members of the Riigikogu will vote for it immediately. As such, this statement really represents the opinion of all Estonian citizens. It is as such that this document has applied, or small, weight, but it has an extremely high moral weight. It can, of course, be said on a non-discriminatory basis that neither our government, nor diplomats, nor Members of the European Parliament are involved in this statement, but morally, it is even their constitutional duty to act in the spirit of this statement, to follow the positions expressed jointly. It is precisely because the position of Estonian citizens is actually expressed here through their representatives. That is, you could say, this much-awaited direct democracy. This is how direct democracy works. So we hope that the ministers and diplomats of the Government of the Republic will find the necessary support and protection in this statement, if necessary, so that Estonia's views can be boldly and clearly explained and defended in Brussels, Berlin, Paris and other capitals. But we must not give ourselves the illusion that our work is now done with this statement. In fact, we must continue to debate every day, and hopefully more and more, the unity of the European Union's foreign policy, the problems of our eastern neighbour's civil society, the processes that stifle the democratic opposition there, and, of course, the recession of relations between the European Union and Russia. I am sure that we should also continue the debate on how to actually achieve a more coherent European foreign and security policy. Because, in fact, having this statement... Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U132	It's okay. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U133	Our statement, despite the fact that I am co-author and ardent supporter of this statement, contains one inevitable contradiction. I want to mark it so I don't open this discussion. This is a question of how a more coherent European foreign policy, or any more coherent European policy, can be achieved if, at the same time, we want to maintain, at all costs, European political fragmentation by giving preference to the Member States' own interests. We are increasingly talking about the importance of differences, and we are denouncing the common part of Europe. Differences are, of course, important, and they certainly need protection. But differences are still valuable when they enrich common interests, add something to them, not when they narrow them down. When special interests become so dominant that there is no longer any common interest left, the special interests are even harmful. Today's statement shows that a common interest can still be found, and that is great. So the answer to how we could actually achieve a more united European foreign policy is the same as what we have achieved when we draw up this statement: looking for and finding a common part and expanding Europe's common value area, sometimes at the cost of giving up small internal policy points, is more important than highlighting differences. I hope to continue these discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in this Chamber in the future. But today, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I invite all members of the Riigikogu to vote on our statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U134	The next word will be given on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Reuben Kaalep. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U135	Dear Riigikogu! The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party supports this draft. On the one hand, it would be easy to refer to it, as most certainly do many of those who support the Moscow regime, that it may be an intervention in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, or to emphasise pluralism, the multiplicity of world visions and the diversity of forms of state. These are all values to be respected. However, in the case of the Russian Federation and the Moscow regime, these arguments do not arise for at least two reasons. Firstly, it is clear that the Russian Federation is failing to comply with the international commitments it has made itself, for example by joining the Council of Europe. Secondly, the activities of the Russian Federation are clearly an inherent threat to both its neighbouring countries and its peoples within and outside Russia's borders. Russia is a country built from the outset on the repression of indigenous peoples, the abduction of their land and, by extension, the expansion of their empire. This is also demonstrated by Russia's increasingly brutal policy in recent years against the ethnic identity of our Finno-Ugric cousins, which is in some respects comparable to the cultural genocide of Red China against the Uighurs. Russia's aggression against neighbouring countries goes into the same pattern, of which we know Ukraine and Georgia best. And in exactly the same pattern is the imprisonment of the anti-corruption activist Alexei Navalnyi and the violent repression of protests. Estonia has so far placed its hopes and expectations on relations with Russia naively on the western countries and on the European Union's foreign policy. We have drawn from the fact that the European Union's foreign policy should be made up of the sum of the national interests of the Member States. This should protect the sovereignty and independence of all Member States. And it should send a clear signal to all international foreign policy levels, both upper and lower, that the interests of small countries are also protected. Unfortunately, following High Representative Borrell's visit to Moscow, it rather brought to mind the very negative experiences of history, such as the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact or the recollections of the historic events of the Tehran and Yalta Conference, which essentially meant selling us to Moscow. This raises the question of whether, in this situation, we will benefit from the European Union's foreign policy at all, or whether the values will once again retreat to short-term economic benefits, as we can see in the case of the Nord Stream pipeline. It is therefore very welcome that all the political groups in the Riigikogu have agreed that we must send a strong signal to the European Union that the conduct of the High Representative of the European Union in Moscow was in no way appropriate and that in our relations with the Russian Federation we demand clarity, certainty of principle and respect for our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U136	On behalf of the central fraction, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U137	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honour for me to express my opinion on the draft statement by the Riigikogu on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Central Party. It must be acknowledged that relations between the European Union and Russia have recently become particularly tense and worrying. There are a number of reasons why I'm not going to re-list them here. However, it is worth mentioning the visit of the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Josep Borrell, to Moscow, which has clearly shown that respectful and constructive dialogue between the European Union and Russia does not turn out, despite the fact that both partners emphasise its importance. The Riigikogu statement "in support of the European Union's common foreign policy and protection of civil liberties in Russia" is a reaction to the visit of Josep Borrell. The widely held view is that the interests of the European Union were not represented during the visit, but were even humiliated. The Centre Party Group is of the opinion that the European Union's policy towards Russia must be coordinated and based on the interests of all of us. At the same time, Estonia's main priority is to ensure the security of the state and to stand up for the well-being and security of the people. Recently, journalists and citizens have often asked me what is the point of political statements. Their efficiency is modest. In the case of recent events, we can say that the statements have a major impact on the positive or negative, that is for everyone to decide. In this case, Estonia should act smartly and carefully to choose the time when we want to express our critical opinion, condemn it and call on another country to take concrete actions that we consider to be only right and legitimate. The Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov's statement on Russia's readiness to break up relations with the European Union became even more tense in bilateral relations. I believe that Sergei Lavrov's statement must be taken seriously and not viewed as merely an attempt to threaten. We must not rule out the possibility that Russia is indeed prepared to interrupt the dialogue, although this seems unlikely. Clearly, both Russia and the European Union are negatively affected by the interruption of relations. There's a discussion about who's gonna do more damage. Interruption of relations will certainly have a negative impact on the prospects of civil society in Russia, as our Eastern neighbour will then abandon international commitments to protect human rights. Simple people must not suffer in resolving political differences. What will be the result of disrupting relations in the fields of trade, tourism, education and diplomacy? There are no answers to this question at the moment. However, the Russian Foreign Minister's statements in the style of 'if you want peace, then prepare for war' must make us very anxious. On 22 February, a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Member States of the European Union will be held in Brussels, where possible restrictive measures against Russia will also be discussed. So far, there is no precise information as to whether further economic sanctions will also be discussed or whether only sanctions will be imposed on persons involved in the poisoning and imprisonment of Alexei Navalny. So we can already find out next week whether Sergei Lavrov's words of willingness to break up relations with the European Union were a threat or whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs issued a decision that has already been approved. The last one is not in our interest. The members of the Centre Party Group take a different view of this statement. It is clear that the interruption of relations with Russia and the total abandonment of dialogue can lead to unpredictable consequences. We consider it important to maintain good neighbourly relations, but we also consider it important that Russia honours its international commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U138	And now, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U139	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! It's hard to be with a hearing aid and a mask, especially when there are glasses. I will start right away by saying that the Isamaa Group will also support this statement and call for a vote in favour of it. Now for a few reasons. The re-independence of the Republic of Estonia is an important part of foreign policy continuity. Coalitions are changing, governments are changing, but foreign policy principles are cross-party. When we talk about our foreign policy constants, relations with the European Union and NATO, transatlantic relations, we know, of course, that we are only one of the very many countries involved in these coalitions. When we talk specifically about the European Union, Member States have different priorities, different interests and there are certain differences in foreign policy. But the European Union's general foreign policy vector, the sum of so-called vectors, depends on all the countries that are in the European Union. So it's up to us. Estonia has been very proactive in recent years. We have taken the lead on the issue of Ukraine, and in particular Belarus, and we have influenced the overall European policy. In this sense, I was sad to see the new government starting with the participation of ambassadors and diplomats from ten countries, including the two Baltic States, Sweden and Poland, in the trial in Navalnyi, which have been our constant allies in the European Union, but Estonia did not exist. Fortunately, the Minister of Foreign Affairs made his own conclusions and Estonian diplomats were already represented in the next Navalny process. There has been a question of the effectiveness of sanctions. There are two opinions and both are questionable. The first assumes that sanctions must take effect immediately and, if they do not act immediately, they will therefore be of no use. We can see that sanctions are working. The aim of sanctions is not to bring anyone to their knees. I am now allowing myself to quote from the Soviet criminal philosophy: it is not about the rigour of punishment, it is about its inevitability. A country that acts aggressively with its neighbours, a country that grossly violates the human rights of its citizens, must take into account that the consequences are inevitable. And that the consequences would work, we saw Mr Lavrov's very nervous reaction. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U140	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U141	When Russian propaganda said "Don't make me laugh at my Iskandar" on the first sanctions, no one's laughing now. On the contrary, Lavrov, quite crying, said that these [sanctions] were very sensitive and were very painful. When I talk about sanctions, I do not know which sanctions must be imposed, but they must be applied. They don't have to be very strong, but they have to be inevitable. And it has to be perfectly clear what they're for. The Magnitski list works, the Navalny list must do the same. We must not have the illusions that Mr Borrell had. I imagine he went to Russia in the best faith that relations should be maintained and improved. What results do we see? Relations have deteriorated because Russia does not respect the weak. I'd like to stop now by some of the claims that sounded in this hall. Firstly, the huge success story of Cuba and Korea. Well, excuse me, I don't even want to talk about Korea. People are literally eating grass there. But I have many acquaintances in Cuba, including a well-known semiotician, unfortunately already dead, Desiderio Navarro. He always wondered: Cuba, it was a tobacco paradise, it was a fruit paradise, and where has everything gone? I told him a joke about what would happen if a popular anecdote were to be built in the Sahara during the Soviet era. Nothing would happen at first, but after a while, you'd have trouble with the sand. So an isolated economy is not very good at all. It has been heard, and it is used very actively by the Kremlin propaganda, so come on, this Navalny is a horrible guy, fascist, nationalist, he supported the annexation of Crimea, he spoke badly about Georgia, he is anti-Semite. Yeah. But was he poisoned because he's a fascist? Is he on trial because he spoke badly about Georgia or because he is anti-Semite? No, he is being tried and wanted to be killed twice, by the way, because he is a threat to the Kremlin's kleptocratic regime. Thank you. And once again, I ask you to vote in favour of this statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U142	And now, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat these substantive arguments why we are here today. I join as an initiator what Marko spoke about and as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, what Jüri spoke about as a representative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. However, I would like to emphasise one aspect alongside all that has already been said. Eerik-Niles Kross actually drew attention to this, too. I think that this is a very important and often disappearing principle in recent years, which is important for small Estonia in these turbulence times, where we are foreign policy and globally. We have always managed to be larger in terms of foreign policy than we have been in terms of our population or GDP or whatever indicator we have been in terms of. This is because, over the long years, foreign policy consensus has been maintained despite the emergence of extreme populism. And this [extreme populism] has, unfortunately, not only been represented by the forces we always classify as populists or extremists with the first swing. Unfortunately, we have also started to happen more and more often in Estonia, precisely because foreign policy consensus is being sacrificed to its short-term domestic ambitions. In this context, this statement today is certainly a good example, and I very much hope that it will not be the last one. I even dare to express the hope that perhaps from here on we will return to what is very important for a small country that values democracy and owes its freedom to stand up for these principles. [I hope] that we will be able to maintain this consensus, just as we were able to make this statement. It has to be said, of course, that there were certain flickers in the outlying areas of this issue, but we got over them. And I am very pleased that this statement was born consensually. Therefore, I can sincerely and purely invite you to vote in favour of this statement. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U144	We have heard the opinions of all the groups. Since the commission of directors has had to make a final vote and no amendments to this statement have been tabled, we can go to the preparation of the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft statement by the Riigikogu in support of the European Union's common foreign policy and the protection of civil liberties in Russia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U145	62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the application, 3 members of the Riigikogu opposed and 1 colleague abstained. Thus, the statement of the Riigikogu has been accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U146	Ladies and gentlemen, With this, our agenda today has not yet been exhausted. We have reached a free microphone. If anyone has a wish for a word, please give a signal. Now, the first call to the speaker is Light Everaus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. I would like to draw attention to a completely different matter, but not less important. It was 1994. Five - year - old Katya of Narva had been fighting a serious illness, a blood cancer in the language of the people. Things didn't go as we wanted, things were very complicated. Yet, it was necessary to go ahead and try. In 1994 it was also this year that when you had to take the risk of this was my first bone marrow transplant for a child. In 1993, I had made the first transplant for an adult, [it was the first one] in Estonia and the Baltics. Katya exists today, since 1994 she has become 2021. Why am I saying this? Today is International Children's Day for Cancer. Cancer isn't just a big one, cancer is a disease of all people, unfortunately. Let us think about this today and try in the future to make sure that the days and months that these families and children are going through are important here every day. Today, the results are so much [better]. When my teacher in Paris said yes, these children will be cured, they thought that the old man had become stupid. At the time, 50% of them were cured, 80% of them today. So we have done a very good job internationally at every level. We need to continue to do so both through our health system and through our social system. We consider and support these families, and we rejoice that our families have healthy children and grandchildren. Which could be even greater wealth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U148	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This morning, exactly 7:33 p.m., the public media channel ETV's morning programme was reported with a symbolic news that made my mind run all the way. The dictator of the morning program stated that scientists in Montana and Iowa, U.S.A., concluded that it was a mistake to make wearing a mask compulsory for the purpose of curing the corona. You see, scientists in over four million states found this to be a mistake! I don't know how you feel about hearing this news, but I was beginning to wonder what the two states of the United States came to this conclusion. I don't know, but I think you might have an interest in this too. My first opportunity to obtain information was today's session of the European Union Commission, where I addressed the following question to the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna: is it possible to obtain more detailed information through ministerial advisers, which is behind such a draconian decision to waive the mandatory mask? The mask is optional on the basis of their decision. If you now draw parallels to last year's Estonian infection, you can see and see that when the first wave of the corona came, the figure went up from March and then came back down, there was virtually no infection in the summer months. Then gradually the figure began to rise again and made a drastic leap after the Government of the Republic ordered the wearing of the mask to be compulsory at the end of October. After that, this curve ran to the ceiling, and today we are, in principle, not among the five richest countries, but among the five European countries that are the highest in terms of infection. I would like to make another comparison from this period, namely for Lithuania. Lithuania had only one month of maskless masks since the declaration of the pandemic, which was June. After that, they went back to wearing a mask. In any case, according to my data, the issue now is that the transition to wearing a mask actually led to an enormous increase in Lithuania's disease rate. I therefore have a request to our government as well as to the scientific council, which has recommended that wearing the mask is compulsory in all circumstances: to thoroughly examine which motives, on what grounds these two states of the United States have concluded that wearing the mask for the purpose of curing the corona has been a mistake. I think this is a very important question. I had prepared a longer speech to analyze the other factors involved in this [mask wearing] both testing and elsewhere, but at this point my [portation] is no longer an option. But in the interests of our entire society, in the interests of our people, who may not all be able to wear a mask, it would be a sign to make clear these circumstances, which is why the opinion of the doctors, scientists and leaders of the four million states with a population is that it is a mistake to wear a mask as a means of rejecting the Coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-15_U150	Ladies and gentlemen, There's no more words. We have successfully passed today's agenda. I wish you a nice evening, and I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00.
