ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 8th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! That's not what you want. Then we'll do a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U2	76 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 25. We can start the trial nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U3	On today's agenda we have one item on the agenda, an overview of the Government of the Republic's activities in the implementation of European Union policy. The debate on this item is taking place in such a way that, first of all, we have Kaja Kallas's presentation, up to 30 minutes. Then Siim Kallas, Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, gave a presentation for up to 20 minutes. Then it's time for questions. I would remind you that it is possible for every member of the Riigikogu to ask questions exactly one. It will then be possible for the representatives of the political groups to speak during the negotiations. And the Riigikogu will not take a decision on this item. But now it's time to get to the Prime Minister's presentation. So please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the aether is yours. Can we get Kaja Kallas on the air? We should have him online. No, Urmas has a speech, it's not procedural. Well, we're not in touch right now. Let's see. We're trying to get in touch with the Prime Minister quickly. It is a little early to start negotiations, but this is the order of questions that the members of the Riigikogu can really ask. I'm gonna take a three-minute break from the manager, try to figure out where the pipes are stuck in the Prime Minister's report, because there was a connection with the Prime Minister, and he's completely out there. Break three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U4	For the sake of protocol, I would like to make it clear that we need to extend the chairman's break a little bit more. I'll take an extra three minutes of manager's break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, It turns out, however, that we have some technical problems. I'm going to extend the chairman's break for another ten minutes. Let's start at 10:20.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U6	However, ladies and gentlemen, we still have some technical problems to deal with. We're trying to start the sitting at 10.40.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, on behalf of the Bureau, I apologise for the delay, including those who follow us online. We have eliminated the technical problems and now we can go to the debate on the agenda. The floor is on Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U8	Hi! My apologies for the technical hiccups! Dear Riigikogu! Honourable ambassadors! In August, we celebrate together the 30th anniversary of the restoration of Estonia's national self-being, one of the pillars of which is the effort to be a worthy member of the cultural people's family. This step gave us, among other things, the opportunity to be part of a common European goal of peace, security and prosperity. It is a fact that without our country, we would not have such an opportunity and choice to make Estonia bigger and not to be and remain alone. It is also true that statehood alone does not guarantee such an opportunity, nor does it guarantee an invitation to a place at a table, this place was fought out with sweat and tears in the first decade of restoration of independence, as was the case with statehood. Our trust and reputation, which is our strongest currency, is won over the years, lost in seconds and restored to eternity. Professor Martin Ehala rightly points out that solidarity is not possible without the sharing of core values. I quote: "Trust, coherence and solidarity depend on the members' belief that other people around them share the same values. "If Estonia is not understood, is not reliable, is not predictable, it is no longer part of us, or part of the West, and is no longer protected by core values at all. Sovereignty does not exist in vacuum, but in relation to its own and others, and above all, it means responsibility for the future of both Estonia and Europe. I would therefore like to use the words of the fresh Head of the European Union Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu that it is appropriate for us to talk about united sovereignty. It is our sovereignty that is linked to the sovereignty of our friends and allies, not to those who are hostile to our own world. It is a united sovereignty that brings us the common defence of the Allied Forces, the euro security net of the single currency, access to the world's best knowledge, the market for our services and goods, and support for the construction of state secondary schools, e-state and hospitals. It also brings Estonia a rapid, effective and necessary dose of the corona vaccine. Together, the combined forces of sovereignty will help us cope with the great technological, demographic and ecological changes of the 21st century, which will inevitably confuse the geopolitical map. Europe has created a unique opportunity for us to be an influential decision-maker, not a mouthful on the menu, a building block in the sphere of influence, or a forgotten hybrid frozen conflict. It has therefore been in Estonia's best interests, and it should always be to aspire to the core of European policy and joint decisions, because it is the strongest guarantee for a small country to determine its own destiny and future. Honourable Riigikogu! We could hardly have thought some time ago that the health issue would be at the heart of all discussions, including those on European Union policy. This year we experienced the moment when the internal market was interrupted, and we also experienced the moment when the world was breathing. Public health is basically a national competence based on the European Union's Treaties, i.e. "everyone for himself." The question for critics is therefore a little legitimate: why did you think that the first reaction to an unknown disease would be anything other than chaotic and self-centered? As a lesson in the crisis, I support the European Union's ability to declare a health emergency and act quickly, if necessary. Similarly, when reviewing the Schengen rules, the lessons of the health crisis must be taken into account and made more crisis-proof, so as not to experience again the selfishness that arose just last spring. All the fundamental freedoms of the European Union were suddenly affected by the borders in brackets, and the desire for personal protective equipment or breathing equipment showed that the laws of the jungle were in force. Perhaps we were a little disappointed because we take the European Union as a self-evident part of our lives. We simply believe in Europe and expect much from it, even if we have jealously defended our own existence. Only in May, at the initiative of the European Commission, EUR 7.5 billion were collected for diagnostic, therapeutic and vaccine development. If we rise to the crisis once again, perhaps we dare say that there is a small miracle that the corona virus vaccines exist because of the mobilisation of resources, and that we have a truly solidarity system, both to divide them between Member States and to allocate them to the rest of the world. A year ago, it was said here that Estonia is too small a country for pharmaceutical companies and that new medicines will be here too late or too expensive, but this should not be the case in the single European market. It is clear that without the European Union, we would not have corona vaccines today, and the comprehensive development of such a system must also be continued after the crisis. Honourable Riigikogu! Another important support has been financial solidarity. Among other things, the European Union Re-launch Facility also provided an opportunity to propose further investments in strengthening the health system and the hospital network. I am pleased that the opposition has already expressed its support for this plan, too, and we have broad-based support. I would also like to welcome the fact that we have done a good job at international level with the vaccine certificate at the World Health Organisation, and I have reason to hope that this will also be taken into account to a very large extent in tomorrow's European Commission proposal on vaccination certificates. An important observation of experience lies in the previous major financial crisis, which we are standing on our shoulders today. As a result of the latest crisis experience, we have strengthened the euro area and the corona crisis has made what has been done an indispensable safety net, so the insurance policy is working. To illustrate this, I will highlight just a few remarkable measures. The European Commission has authorised State aid to alleviate the crisis in COVID-19 to the tune of around EUR 3 trillion. However, the European Central Bank's extraordinary asset purchase programme to contain the economic effects of a pandemic is worth EUR 1850 billion, or nearly EUR 2 trillion. This, in turn, will be complemented by a budget for the European Union of around EUR 1.1 trillion and a re-launch plan of EUR 750 billion. This, in turn, is complemented by many other measures, a safety net already in place, such as the European Stability Mechanism, and the TERA supporting unemployment insurance systems. This can be described as no more or less than truly extraordinary and historic solidarity, but also as a remarkable investment in future security, because in the next crisis we are already relying on what we are building from today's experience. Dear Riigikogu! Thirdly, the major internal market of the European Union is also an important source of crisis security. It is true that shortcomings have also occurred here, and this fear has not really disappeared even now that new strains of the virus are spreading. The crisis even brought to light, even unexpectedly, the fact that information technology allows society to function tolerablely even under quite extreme conditions. I cannot imagine this cross-border coordination without today's communication, and it is a testimony that we are also doing our democratic duty here via the Internet. It is clear from the hedgehog that access to strategically important materials and technology is not only important for the protection of health, but also for the implementation of the green and digital revolutions. With this awareness, we wrote a joint letter with four prime ministers for women in the European Union asking for a decade to be focused on the development of basic European capabilities and to create a framework, legislation and toolbox to monitor their achievement. Last week, the European Commission presented the Digital compass initiative, which, alongside chips, quantum computers, digital skills and other things, finally targets us with such a lovely widespread introduction of digital signatures. I hope that the Council will give it fundamental approval next week. Of course, we would like the European Union to continue with the issue of the free movement of data and to help to find value in all areas and industrial sectors. It is also important that the forthcoming Digital Services Act offers European companies and platforms the opportunity to enjoy a genuinely large internal market. I am also pleased that the European Union is looking for a shared role with NATO in the development of critical technologies, as well as with the United States in relation to the subject of regulation and taxation of platforms. I believe that the West, together, has every reason to look at some trends in digital technology in the world with concern and to act together. Honourable Riigikogu! We have not inherited the land from our parents, but we have borrowed it from our children. Fred Jüssi, Rein Marani or David Attenborough" nature films and the recent stories of Levila with former forest rangers help to remember the changed environment. We are not only talking about the consequences for nature as a quiet crisis and abstract loss of biodiversity, forests and soil fertility. Man-made climate change is a source of many new conflicts. The reason for the spread of germ viruses is the consistent and massive change in the boundaries of nature by man to the benefit of man and so that nature loses its inner capacity to cope with it. We all know the saying, "The manor's rope, let it slide." It turns out that free and unlimited use of nature does not exist, and over-exploitation results in naturelessness and poverty, and then hopelessness and poverty. A report by Partha Dashupta, an economist at the University of Cambridge, commissioned by the UK Government, was just published. The report recalls the disastrous trend in the loss of mechanisms for over-exploitation and self-repair of nature. For example, between 1992 and 2014, physical capital, i.e. roads, machinery, buildings, factories, ports, etc., has doubled per capita, while natural capital reserves per capita decreased by almost 40%. In other words, mankind's prosperity has been devastating to nature. The report therefore calls for the inclusion of natural capital in the accounts alongside physical capital. Carbon pricing on a sector-by-sector basis has certainly been an important step in the right direction. In Estonia, too, emissions have decreased mainly in the sectors of the emission trading system and in other sectors. Since this is a global effort, it is important to stress that it is not enough to set a very distant end goal, but also what happens now and in the next decade. I therefore support that we have both an incentive and a deterrent system to achieve this objective. The European Union and the United States must put their backs together to bring third countries behind this ambition. I also reiterate the view that the government supports the European Union's objective of climate neutrality and its inclusion as a legally binding objective in the so-called European climate law. Moreover, we also support this objective for Estonia and we have just initiated the development plan for the environmental field. In the next two months, we are looking forward to an impact assessment by both the European Commission and Estonia on how 55% of emissions reductions can be achieved. In the context of the European Union's decisions, it is important that the achievement of this objective must be cost-effective and fair. Sensitive industrial sectors must have the opportunity and time to adapt to change, resulting in a gradual move towards climate neutrality. I personally very much welcome the creation of a fair transition fund for the regions most affected. I have already fought for this as a Member of the European Parliament, and I think it is very right that the government decided to direct all this money to Ida-Viru County. Honourable Riigikogu! The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, has stated that achieving climate neutrality is a new growth strategy for Europe. During the launch of the 1996 Tiger Jump program, President Lennart Meri used the saying "who is late will miss it." With such a healthy attitude, we should also approach the green turn, which according to the endangered species of the Baltic Sea could also be called the Viigree Jump at home. I believe you have noticed that Volvo has just announced that he is a fully electric car manufacturer in 2030 and that Volkswagen has set up a software centre in Tallinn to be an IT company in 2030. If the main challenges for the efficiency of mobility are perception of the surrounding environment, digital brain and software and energy storage, then Estonia already has a significant footprint in the so-called automotive industry. I congratulate our universities for laying this knowledge base, but also Elcogen's recent decision to establish a fuel cell production plant in Estonia. The government will certainly stand for us to have more of this smart and green industrial production. The EUR 50 million seed money from the European Re-launch Fund for hydrogen technology will hopefully provide the necessary trigger for the hydrogen revolution. I hope for a similar digital and green boost from the introduction of the Rail Baltic project, and I wish to strengthen regional and transatlantic cooperation also on Digisummit, Tallinn. We do not want to be the country with the blackest footprint in Europe, and we do not want to become the European waste heap by 2035. In the new budget period of the European Union, Estonia has a sizeable budget of EUR 3.3 billion to achieve the objective of climate neutrality. Since the green turn is essentially an energy turn towards clean energy, the government's decision to withdraw from the preferential development of oil shale energy for public money has finally drawn up a debate on various new opportunities and technologies. In Estonia, such a turn in a tangible future means a shift in energy production from east to west, from land to sea and from stone to wind. Tarmo Soomere, President of the Academy of Sciences, has said that the future of energy production is a windmill in the backyard. This thinking may seem as strange to us as the computer class in 1990, but if we learned anything from this era, it is that it is not about technology but, above all, about our own attitudes. Among the projects of common interest funded by the Energy Commissioner, Kadri Simson, the European offshore wind strategy and the hydrogen strategy, and the Connecting Europe Facility, priority will be given to the development of the offshore wind grid and hydrogen technology. I congratulate the previous governments for the fact that the project to synchronise the Estonian energy system with Central Europe received the EUR 720 million needed funding and is coming to the end of the connection with Europe. I am also hopeful that the joint initiative to develop the Estonian-Latvian sea wind [park] will bear fruit by 2030 and will have an inspiring effect. It is obvious, of course, that the new EU budget is not enough to realise the idea of the Baltic Sea network, and the funding should complement both the income from the emissions trade and the budget following the current period. Honourable Riigikogu! African folk wisdom is apt to say that if you want to go quickly, you go alone, and if you want to go far, you go together. And together and united, we have to go because our strategic challenges are constantly changing along with the population, the environment and technology, but they have not changed in substance. I very much hope that our deterrence and toolbox can take one step in the world with these developments. We have just launched the European strategic compass process, and I hope that in a year's time we will be able to measure it. From next week's Council, first and foremost, I expect us to have strategic patience and to reaffirm the five principles of developing relations with Russia. When we talk about selective inclusion, the best thing we can do is to involve civil society more selectively, to share our core values with our eastern neighbours, and also to make the necessary decisions in enlargement policy. The new year has begun by reaffirming close, friendly cooperation with the United States based on shared values. It is therefore gratifying that a number of topics that have strained relations have been found or are in the process of finding a solution. I hope that we will also be able to continue our cooperation with America bilaterally and as a region in the framework of the three sea summits and its follow-up activities this year, including in Tallinn Digisummit. The reopening of the world and mobility are certainly topics where there are many opportunities to find positive joint actions and initiatives. However, when we talk about a more sovereign Europe, the corona crisis alone has shown that the European Union's willingness and ability to cope on its own needs to be increased. There must also be an increase in Europe's ability and credibility to contribute to transatlantic security through the European Union's tools. In doing so, we must take into account that the cornerstone of Europe's own security is and will remain a transatlantic relationship, and therefore the debate about the military defence of the allies, their contribution to it and military operations must take place within the framework of NATO with the other allies and not behind the track and behind the back. NATO's main objective is to ensure the security and collective protection of its Member States. It is quite worth recalling that NATO keeps a whole billion people's lives safe and secure, and only half of these people live in the European Union. In fact, it should be taken into account that this other side tends to be also NATO's militaryly stronger side. Dear Riigikogu! First of all, I congratulate the three past governments for their effective and effective work in concluding the European Union's budget agreement. Last Thursday, the government also approved a proposal on the own revenues of the European Union budget, and it has already been sent to the Riigikogu for decision. I hope for constructive discussions and a swift agreement so that we can start with the investment we dreamed of and bring the future closer. As I said in the introduction to the presentation, Estonia's affairs are also European things and, on the contrary, strong countries make Europe strong and strong Europe also makes European countries strong. The roof strategy "Estonia 2035" has been completed and presented to you under the leadership of the State Chancellery. It takes account of the developments in the European Union and, being Estonia's long-term strategy, it also tries to guide these developments. All sectoral development plans must anticipate and be able to shape the development of Europe, at least from an Estonian perspective, and ministers will also report on these activities in the large hall. I hope that there will also be more and more talk in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu about sectoral developments in Europe. This somewhat self-centred approach does not change this fundamental principle that if Europe is doing well, Estonia will do well, but it must also strengthen the sense of ownership, interest and targeting in European policies in Estonia. Europe will never be ready, because Europe does not have, and must not have, the ultimate goal, but it is important that we care and feel responsible for its future and realise that Estonia cannot, cannot, must not be left alone. He can only be what people today want and dream he is. However, I hope that Estonians will not stop hoping and dreaming about a peaceful, protected, free and diverse Europe, because there is no Estonia without Europe and there is no Europe without Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U9	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I would remind the members of the Riigikogu that you have one question for both speakers. Begin Anti-Semiamets. Please! Anti, we don't see you now, and that's why we can't hear you talking to us. Good Anti, we can't hear you, and since we can't see, we don't know if you were talking to us or not. Let's take the next question. Mart Helme, please! Please, Mr Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U10	Thank you. First of all, I wish the Prime Minister a quick recovery. But about the speech, I'm sorry I didn't enjoy it. It consisted of a very literal presentation of the subject of nomenclature and gave me a very serious and perhaps schizophrenic question: which way does your principle of loyalty No 1 tend to go, either towards the European Union as such or towards the Estonian people as the collective you represent?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U11	Thank you. As I said in my speech, Estonia is a part of Europe and Estonia is strong when Europe is strong and vice versa. We simply have on the agenda today an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic towards the European Union. And, as I said at the beginning, our sovereignty is linked to the sovereignty of other countries, it is a united sovereignty that gives us that strength. So I don't think it's right to contrast these things. Estonia's interest is to be a strong country among other countries of the European Union. After all, we are not strong alone, as history has shown.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that if you ask, please also use the camera. Even if we have some problems with the sound, we can at least see that you're on camera, and we can help you. And since you don't see the sequence of calls or questions, I'll tell you after a while. We now have Imre Sooäär, Eduard Odines and Andres Metsoja in line. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U13	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Please don't take my question as an intruder! I'm genuinely concerned about your health day, Echo, and I wish you a quick recovery. I've seen a lot of younger people in my neighborhood than you, who have been in extremely difficult situations or have lost their lives. I'm not a doctor, but all doctors say one mouth that stress weakens the immune system. And answering questions from the Riigikogu, even in the case of online, is certainly a stressful activity. The pressure adds that a link between the Prime Minister and Parliament cannot be established in the digital state. What kind of signal does it give people when, instead of the peace and the rest that you really need right now, you stand heroically before us today? Coming to the subject of the day: we are in a corona war where the General Staff, or ministers, are still unvaccinated. Who's gonna get us out of this crisis when the drivers are in the infirmary? When will you tell the government and crisis managers to vaccinate immediately so that they can deal with European Union policies as well as other issues? How many more victims do you need?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U14	First of all, thank you for your good wishes. Secondly, the issue of vaccination. Indeed, on Thursday we decided that the members of the government, as well as representatives of other constitutional institutions, including members of the Riigikogu, will have the opportunity to vaccinate themselves. Of course, vaccination is entirely voluntary, but with it we will go on to make everything work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U15	Eduard Odines, please! I'm sorry, I can't hear you. We're gonna try to make a little fix right this way, see if we can make it. Wait a minute. Now, try again. Eduard, please, try talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U16	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U17	Yeah, now you're hearing it. Please! Yeah, I can hear you. Go ahead, talk! So, can't you hear us now? Please, we can hear you and we can see you. Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U18	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U19	Yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U20	Yeah, even when you're in this house, there seems to be some connection problems. But thank you to the Prime Minister for this presentation. And thank you for the floor. You also mentioned the re-launch facility in your speech, dear Prime Minister, and you rejoiced at how this will help us overcome the crisis. My question relates to this re-launch facility. Both the Re-launch Fund and the other instruments that we will receive from the European Union will be available for recovery from the crisis in the coming years, and several countries will direct these funds to those most affected by the crisis, recognising that all people will have to survive the crisis and that the crisis will increase inequalities. What is the government planning, however, that the crisis will not increase income inequality and regional imbalances?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U21	Thank you. First of all, the first thing we do is to support the labour market precisely so that people do not lose their jobs. Indeed, those people who can carry on their work in teleworking, as if nothing happens to them, but those affected by the restrictions are hit hard by it. That is why it is foreseen that we will channel money there in the form of labour market subsidies to help these people. If you ask me if there is a general measure where all people get, whoever this is about, there is no such thing, precisely because they should still help those who get hit. As far as this re-launch facility is concerned, it is basically divided into five parts. Most of it goes to health, education and social protection in order to ensure the continuity of health care and, on the other hand, to help those most in need. The second major piece is aimed at entrepreneurship, again so that jobs are preserved and people can continue to work. Now, in addition to these European funds, we are going to come up with an additional budget with specific support for the sectors and people most hit. Our common goal, of course, is not to create any further inequalities in order not to create educational gaps. We are looking at children all getting their education properly in digital learning, and if there are gaps in this distance learning, we are also going to have money to overcome these gaps. Why am I talking about this? Because if we leave educational gaps in it, they will also lead to social divisions later. So that's all we've been thinking about and working to make sure there are no such rifts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U22	Andres Metsoja next, followed by Riina Sikkut, Helle-Moonika Helme and Uno Kaskpeit. Please, Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, a quick recovery! The availability of teleworking, digital learning, the digital state has increased very sharply in the context of the corona crisis. As a support group for the Riigikogu, as a support group for the broadband network, we have been working on this topic for quite a long time. We have tried to solve the question of the last mile, but it has actually become clear that we are solving the first mile instead, and those people who are a little further away from Tallinn are, unfortunately, left almost alone on this issue. It is now a question of the next financial period for the European Union. We were briefed on its content, 70 million planned for both 5G and the development of broadband networks. My opinion and the opinion of the support group clearly do not have enough. Can we do something seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U24	Yeah. In fact, 135 million of this re-launch funding has already been earmarked for the entire e-state. There is, among other things, this improvement in access to the last mile online. In this sense, I share this concern that the Internet should be available on all Estonian points. This amount is quite high compared to what has previously been allocated to it. So I believe it can make these investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U25	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U26	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Unlike Mart Helme, I really enjoyed your speech. So thank you! And it was a pleasure to note that the government actually supports, both at European Union level and at Estonian level, the setting of such an ambitious green turn goal in law. Instead, I would like to ask you about the Pillar of Social Rights. It is good to hear that with the green turn and the digital revolution [will] move forward vigorously, but with all these turns, it is important to make sure that no one carries or lags behind the load. That is why it seems to me that, in order to balance this, the European Union has adopted the Social Rights Pillar Action Plan, from lifelong learning to gender equality, from fair pay to long-term care, in order to move forward with all these issues in the same way. How does the government plan to implement the Pillar of Social Rights and how important do you consider it to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U27	Yeah, thanks! It has now been 'in the pipeline' that the European Commission has presented this plan, the Social Rights Pillar Action Plan, how it should work. There is a plan to discuss this at the Council in Porto on 7 July. There is also this, just as you said yourself, that this social pillar is also linked to the green and digital revolution, that people's rights and opportunities should be covered there. The Ministry of Social Affairs should come to the government with these views on the social pillar in April. I expect them to communicate with the Riigikogu before that. We have applied these principles in general, which were approved during the Estonian Presidency in 2017, but positions should come to the government in April and then to the Commission of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U28	Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U29	I hope you can hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U30	Fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U31	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You spoke here about the European Union and all this beautiful talk, embracing poetry and bureaucratic bird language. But, unfortunately, we already know that only with the propaganda of utopian ideology do we asphalt the asphaltic ooze. And these holes are already on the way to the bright future of the European Union, despite the beautiful words. We see, despite the unfathomable speeches of the Heads of State and the wishful thinking that the European Union will never and never again be what it once was: an alliance of equal nation states, where, indeed, with respect for one another, we were able to move forward in a consensual manner and in the light of the interests of the countries, in order for everyone to have a good place in Europe. Your move towards a united Europe, as you have repeatedly stated in your speech, defines our sovereignty through a strong Europe. I agree that Europe could indeed be a guarantee of our sovereignty. Unfortunately, we can see how the European Union and the European Commission, through their efforts, are disrupting our national sovereignty as enshrined in our constitution on a daily basis. My question to you is: as your head of government, how will you take our national decisions when the European Union and the European Commission are calling for greater mobility of all decision-making decisions in Brussels? Are you standing up for our constitution and our nation state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U32	Thank you. Firstly, I very much agree that Europe should aim for everyone to have a good time. Secondly, what is the alternative to Estonia? Is the alternative that we'd rather be alone? I think we have two alternatives. One alternative is to be with the Western world, to be with the European Union, and the other is to be with Russia. We don't have any more options. Of course, as I said, all countries in Europe actually stand up for their own interests and for their national interests. And the European Union does not rule out nation states absolutely; it supports them. In this sense, as head of government, I stand for the interests of Estonia. And the interest of Estonia is that we will never be alone again. Estonia's interest is that we should be together with the West, that we should be together with the European Union, that we should have strong allies. Estonia's interest is that life would improve in Estonia. And if we look at numbers purely from 1992 until now, or even say, if we take them from the time we join the European Union, then in no other country has the economy grown so much because of this. Compared to other countries, the Estonian economy has grown more and we have won a great deal from the European Union. We will continue to stand for it to work in such a way that we will never be alone again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U33	Uno Kaskpeit and then Paul Puustusmaa, Peeter Ernits, Heljo Pikhof. Now, please, Uno Kaskpeit!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U34	Thank you. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U35	Yeah, I hear you. It'd be even better if we could see it, but we can hear it nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U36	At the beginning of your statement, Prime Minister, you mentioned the restoration of the Estonian state. I remember this restoration well because I was involved in it myself, with a gun in my hand. Unfortunately, the current government does not respect that. The Latvian border guard carries out border checks between Valga and Valka for people going from Estonia to Latvia. Unfortunately, the Estonian state is not interested in who comes from Latvia. I think the principle is that let the Latvians come to us and carry the disease to the South Estonians. Does this indicate your attitude towards the people of South Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U37	Thank you. First of all, the spread of the virus within Estonia is greater than it is in Latvia, so if someone gives someone the virus, it is likely that Estonians would rather be Latvians than vice versa. But this virus knows no bounds. After all, there is also labour migration and all such family movements along the Latvian border, so it is also a bit apparent, the border control they are doing there. I don't think it makes sense to have everyone acting very selfishly in the collection. At present, particularly in the case of border crossings, it can be said that this is not an effective measure and that this decision should be in the final order. As I said, the main spread of the disease is within the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U38	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U39	Thank you very much. First of all, good Prime Minister, I wish you a speedy recovery. But now I'm trying to formulate my question, which is pretty principled. The European Union's policy is clearly synonymous with the increase in bureaucracy that has developed for us and the increase in the official body, it is papers, it is people. This in turn is synonymous with the loss of independence and the appreciation of administrative maintenance in Estonia. We have been fighting bureaucracy for years, but it does not seem to be getting better or better, but it is moving in a completely different direction. A good example here is the GDPR, i.e. the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which amended the mandatory rules on data processing. If we used to have our own law, twenty pages, then this new law is five times more extensive, but it didn't reduce the problems. On 20 December, the government approved a report from the zero bureaucracy task force, which showed that we were heading somewhere, but... And now the question: what has the new government really planned to do to reduce dependence on the deepening bureaucracy of the European Union and to reduce its own national bureaucracy, in particular legislation... [The Union is breaking down. ... whose duties really include our own bureaucracy, compliance with laws and understanding them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U40	I didn't hear the end of the question. I understand it is a good thing to say that bureaucracy is growing in the European Union, but in fact, if you look at the European Commission, the previous Commission and their actions, at least, they had a rule that for every initiative that comes up, a number of initiatives must be withdrawn. So it is not bureaucracy that is growing, but it is replacing it so that we can do things easier. But if you are now thinking about the functioning of the European Union, for example, the fact that we have an internal market in the European Union and not all countries have their own customs management, how much this has actually cut red tape. If we have common rules everywhere in Europe, for example, for businesses, the fact that you can go to export to markets does not mean that you have to make things clear again, because there are different rules everywhere, but there are the same rules. In the same way, our businesses are in principle able to expand to other markets at all. If in the past it was more than 500 million people instead of 1.3 million people who could consume goods and services in Estonia, then now it is 455 million because of Britain's departure, but it is just a significant difference. And if this question is in the direction of Estonia, that what we are doing, then we always try to keep things as simple as possible in these negotiations. We will certainly see that this does not increase bureaucracy. I know from my own knowledge that the European Parliament has a very different attitude from the various Member States. We are small and we do not want to make any additional expenditure, that is what we have to bring out all the time to the big countries, and that is what we are going to do. I think it is also important to look at the position that the European Union is increasing bureaucracy. Is it really like this when, for example, the functioning of the internal market has made this situation much easier for businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U41	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that there is one minute to ask the question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U42	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! First of all, good healing! But actually, look at how flawed the digital state is, the digital tiger. The President of the European Commission von der Leyen first created a separate vice-president for demography, and on 27 January the European Commission launched an investigation into the impact of demography on society and the economy. But when you became Prime Minister, the first thing was to eliminate the position of the Minister of Population and the working group on demography in the Riigikogu. Although according to Taagepera, and this is true, the Estonian people are currently in greater danger than during the Soviet occupation. My question, good Echo, is whether you did it by accident or whether you wanted us not to have a partner with whom the Vice-President of the European Commission for Demography could talk. Or is it the case when you talk about united sovereignty that Brussels will decide which Estonian people should be and, if necessary, how much fresh labour will be brought here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U43	Thank you. Firstly, it is not the role of the Prime Minister to tell the Riigikogu which committees the Riigikogu should or should not do. But second, as far as the position of minister is concerned, neither the survival of the Estonian people depends on whether or not a minister has been appointed. All the duties of this Minister shall be carried out by Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo and they shall be well carried out. The survival of the Estonian people is still linked to the fact that it would be good to live here and to raise children and that people would feel safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U44	Now heljo Pikhof, then Henn Põllaas, Leo Kunnas, Raivo Tamm. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U45	Thank you. Prime Minister, first of all, I would like you to have a mild illness and a rapid recovery. If we look back in time, the minimum wage in Latvia and Lithuania also increased during the COVID-19 crisis, but not in Estonia, while we also have a pay gap at the top of the European Union and relative poverty. A good colleague, Riina Sikut, has already raised the issue of respect for the principles of the social pillar here. But maybe it's a different subject. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has also publicly supported Estonia's participation in 17 + 1 format, but Urmas Paet does not support it. My question is: do you think that Estonia should participate in 17 + 1 formats? And more broadly, is and how are the policies of the Member States, i.e. Estonia's Chinese policy, coordinated at the level of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U46	Thank you. Of course, we prefer communication with China in 27 + 1 format. Together we're stronger, that's clear. As regards the fact that we have been in this format now, for the first time in this government, we participated in this format at the level of the Foreign Minister, not at the level of the Head of Government. When we talk about 17 + 1 formats, the European Union is also involved as an observer. And what we do is in line with what we do in general. But as I said, we prefer this 27 + 1 format, because together we are stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U47	Henn Põllamaas, please! Good Henn, we can't hear you right now, and since we can't see, I can't tell if you're talking to us or not. Stay on the line right now, we're trying to make a little bit of a clarification in your settings. Let's try it now. Henn! Unfortunately, your Internet connection seems to be a little low, the picture's gone down. Let's try it again. We cannot contact the President of the Riigikogu right now. Let's get Leo Kunnas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister, for my part, I would also like to wish you an early recovery. I would also like to strengthen you in the role of the head of substantive emergency, which you, as Prime Minister, must inevitably fulfil at the moment. My question is simple. How do you feel about the idea of strategic European defence autonomy proposed by the French President, Emmanuel Macron?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U49	Thank you. Indeed, the French President has pursued this issue of defence autonomy. If you look in there, what's he saying? He is saying that the European Union's capacity must be strengthened. In principle, transatlantic cooperation with NATO and the European Union's own capabilities are complementary. This does not mean that we are somehow abandoning NATO. Rather, NATO is stronger than all the European Union's [countries]' own defence capabilities. Certainly, this activity must not be duplicated, but it seems to me that they are in fact substantially complementary. And if the French President pushes for more investment to be made in the protection of the Member States, it will in principle also strengthen NATO. So, for us, these discussions on how to increase the European Union's beggars, including its wide-ranging security and capabilities, including to deal with this pandemic, are all welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U50	Okay, let's try to get back in touch with Henn Põllamaa. Good Henn, your picture's stopped, and unfortunately we can't hear you either. Let's try to get back in touch with you in a little while. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister, I also wish for a rapid recovery. And even though I've been taught in the theatre school that the only thing that apologizes for not having an actor from the show is death, I still share Imre Sooäär's view that it's a little scary that you're working sick. But since you're here, I'm gonna ask you a question. How closely will there be a wish for Estonia to ratify the border treaty on the European Union's eastern border?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U52	Thank you. This is a national issue, and there will be no pressure on it from Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U53	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U54	Prime Minister! I'm interested in the development of the green turn. You've emphasized a forced herbal cord. Doesn't it threaten our energy independence if we look at future developments as well? We can, of course, build the wind farms that are necessary, but nevertheless we also need to ensure the stability of the energy system. If we now stop our core energy system in Ida-Virumaa, don't you worry that energy independence can go [badly]?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U55	Thank you. According to Elering's security of supply report, all capacity will be guaranteed until 2030. Now the question is whether this heroin in any way threatens Estonia's security of supply. I'm sure he won't. If we are looking at Estonian electricity production now, then we are in the Nord Pool market, the Nordic single market for electricity. This means that, since the market operates by using the electricity that is cheapest, we can already see that oil shale electricity is so expensive that it virtually does not enter the market or that there is very little time when it is economically viable to use it. We need to anticipate these opportunities, or rather take steps to ensure that we have additional capacities. After all, this is not going to happen overnight, the goal now is to abandon oil shale electricity in 2035. And, as I said, in economic terms, this is happening earlier and not because the government says, but because it is simply not economically viable. Another thing that concerns oil shale energy in general is that we have said that our government or taxpayers' money will no longer invest further in the development of fossil fuels. This does not mean that the private sector cannot do so. And the oil sector has nothing to do with the security of electricity supply. So these two things still need to be kept separate, because the oil is being moved out, and the private sector can decide whether or not they have a market or whether or not the oil is being bought. However, as far as electricity is concerned, security of supply is guaranteed at least until 2030. And, as I said, we need to invest in order to have different power generation capacities, from different sources and from different producers, in order to ensure security of supply in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U56	Now, now Urmas Reitelmann, then Reuben Kaalep and Siim Pohlak. Please, Urmas Reitelmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister! To begin with, this morning proved once again that there is nothing to resist the digital capacity of Estonia in the world. But now the European Union. It is recalled that the European Union has changed European rules with every crisis. This was done during the euro crisis, during the immigration crisis, and is now being done during the pandemic crisis. We are talking today about this 750 billion so-called'recovery money'. We could call it a refund, but it's actually a loan. Let us be honest, this money must be paid back, and it will most likely be paid back with Union-wide taxes. As far as I am concerned, the Estonian Constitution does not allow a common debt burden to be imposed on the government; it is not the government's competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U58	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U59	A referendum must be organised to this end. Is such a referendum coming? Or is the government going to sneak past it like a crook?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U60	Thank you. It is interesting that, as a representative of your party, you say that the money must be paid back. I have heard from you in the past the view that these loans will not have to be repaid, which the Estonian state has taken. Indeed, this principle should be clear to everyone that loans must be repaid. But as far as your question is concerned, this decision on own resources will be discussed in the Riigikogu. It has already been sent to you for discussion and an analysis of [compliance] was already carried out in the previous government that there is no constitutional problem with it. So it should be absolutely doable. And this own resources decision, which comes to the government, was supported, as far as I know, by your party in the previous government. So I hope you will also support it in the big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U61	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U62	Prime Minister! You said that there is no conflict between European values and national statehood, but, on the contrary, national statehood is strongly favoured in the European Union. Now my question. Does the preservation of the Estonian state as an ethnic national home for Estonians, where the Estonian nation must have a sense of security that it will not remain a minority in its own country and that the proportion of Estonians will not fall, and where the demographic situation as we see it in Western European metropolitan areas will never be allowed to occur, could such values be part of European values or are they in any way incompatible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U63	Thank you. Francis Fukuyama has written a good book on Identity, and there he also talks about this European identity and the identities of nation states that you can be Estonian while you are European. I do not think there is any contradiction. But the talk you keep saying about ethnic Estonians. How do you define these ethnic Estonians in the first place? Or how do you identify the ethnic Estonian? I don't know, when I look at you, you're not blonde and blue eyes either. Are you still ethnic Estonian? We've seen history when they tried to make a very clear distinction, and we know where it led. The Republic of Estonia is a state of Estonian citizens. And who are citizens? In any case, it is determined by the Constitution who will become a citizen and how. So, yes, the nation state in general is in no way at odds with the general idea of the European Union that we have no wars here and that we can all live in peace.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U64	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, first of all, good healing for you! I would ask you two questions. Firstly, in your speech and in answering questions, you spoke about the European Union, which is for everyone to have a good time. I deeply doubt whether Poland or Hungary will be good in the European Union today if their disbursements from the European budget are linked to the fulfilment of some kind of guidelines and ideological requirements in Brussels. What is your view on this matter? Secondly, I would like to ask, using your expression, whether there are plans in the pipe in case it turns out that the time of globalist world approach is coming to an end with the corona crisis and the decade that has begun leads both the countries of the rest of the world and the European Union to a more local model, where first and foremost the interests of the countries themselves and solidarity are not even reached in words in the European Union. There are more than enough signs of it in the air. Aren't you afraid that you have taken a little too much of a political position for changing circumstances and that Estonia's interests will remain completely unprotected in changing or new circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U66	First of all, coming to this last question, you're not afraid. But when we come to Poland and Hungary, when we look at the big picture, Poland and Hungary have received a great deal of support from the European Union. I think they have received more from the European Union than they have put there. That's a first. I think they're feeling good in the collection. As regards the rule of law, the rule of law is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union and these principles must be respected. The principles that we, as the European Union, blame on other countries should be very clear on our own. Otherwise, it's all empty what we're doing for it. But why are they blocking this long-term budget of the European Union? Indeed, they say that they do not like this rule of law to be linked to it. And they have brought an action before the Court of Justice, but as long as the Court has not dealt with it, that decision cannot be made. But it doesn't hold back the budget. Poland and Hungary will, of course, defend their positions primarily on the basis of national or domestic policy interests. Perhaps they have not been so loud at European level so far. But, in my opinion, if we have agreed on some principles at European level, it should not be that we do not respect these principles. Perhaps, if we have agreed on some principles, there must also be a mechanism by which we can call on countries that do not adhere to these principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U67	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U68	Thank you. About the end of the last question. There are some issues that have been agreed, in the case of Poland and Hungary, the Council agreed on how things should be interpreted or how things should work, and the Commission whistles at that. This is, by the way, very symptomatic of the functioning of the European Union as a whole, and the rule of law is being spoken of, but in fact, Europe's own institutions are operating in total voluntarism, in violation of all the rules. A particularly good example is how the Brexit deals with England were violated. But I have a question. I come back to what Urmas Reitelmann asked about taxes. I must now reject the many very lame lies that the Prime Minister has spread here, as if we had somewhere spread the word that Estonia is not going to pay or have to pay back the debts that we are taking. There hasn't been a story like that. It is also wrong that we have agreed to increase Europe's own resources in the form of new taxes in the previous government. The increase in own resources was a talk, only about it, and it was very clearly denied that new taxes would come. The summer agreement was only about increasing or replaying existing own funds. I come to this talk of sovereignty. Tax sovereignty and budgetary sovereignty are practically the last things left to the Member States, and now, at the heart of the implementation, in any area, in any way, new taxes, it will be gone. And what difference does it make more if people vote for the Reform Party or the EKRE in elections, because these electoral promises pay nothing, Brussels decides what our tax policy is? How do you stand for tax and budgetary sovereignty?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U69	Thank you. After all, tax sovereignty still exists. Historically, the budget of the European Union is made up only of the European Union's taxes. There's nothing new about that. But as far as national tax law is concerned, everywhere it is always said that the introduction of taxes is the national competence of each country. As far as own resources are concerned, where the European Union receives so-called own resources, that is where an agreement needs to be found. Maybe I really misinterpreted those statements. Somehow it is remembered that there has been a view on your part that loans should not seem to have to be repaid. But tax policy has been a national policy, and that is not what the European Union is going to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U70	Henn Põllamaas, please! So, President of the Riigikogu... Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U71	You did not answer the question whether you were primarily loyal to the Estonian people or to the European Union. But it fits very well with the statement made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs that Estonia's foreign policy is in the direction of the European Union... [The Union is hacking, the text is incomprehensible. ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But I want to ask you about the green turn. Here you said we have to give up oil shale electricity, we could have a windmill in every backyard, and it's absolutely not about technology... the subject. But it's a technology question. Because there may be a windmill in every garden, but if there's no wind, we're still in the cold and dark. So I'd still like to know that if we get such a social disaster that a thousand unemployed people go to the unemployment fund, where's the technology we can switch to?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U72	I hope the Prime Minister realized that this was about a green turn and technology if oil shale energy were to disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U73	Yes, it was very difficult to understand, because the connection was very fragmented. But first, I would like to say that I am loyal to the Republic of Estonia, loyal to the people of Estonia and loyal to the Constitution of Estonia. It's already based on oaths and positions, and there's no way to question that. Another thing that concerns oil shale energy, as I said, is two sides: one is oil shale electricity and the other is oil shale energy in general. As I said, because we are part of Nord Pool's electricity market, it is already because this electricity is very polluting, because it is simply too expensive and we use different electricity. So we're not entirely dependent on oil shale electricity now. The Security of Supply Report states that security of supply will be ensured by 2030. Since there are nine years, this is the time when further investments can be made. The other side, which concerns oil shale energy at large, then, as I said, in the European Parliament, I also fought for a fairer transition fund to help regions such as we have in Ida-Viru County to switch to cleaner energy and other production. What brings together all these regions in Europe also has coal mining areas with similar concerns is that there are very hard-working people with very specific skills. The Fair Transition Fund is designed to create new jobs in places where fossil fuels can no longer be used in this way. But as I said, renewable technologies exist, they are constantly evolving. If you look at history, you need some kind of additional boost to get new technologies on the market. And therefore, since Estonia is still a part of the world, a part of Europe, we do not have the point of making decisions that we see in the world's trends that they are going in the wrong direction, but we need to make sure that this does not come unexpected to us in 2030. That is why we have to deal with this at an early stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U74	Okay. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, I have listened to your answers to the questions that have been asked and I absolutely agree that COVID's disease is very serious. Therefore, I wish you only a wholeheartedly good recovery.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U77	The Prime Minister has taken thanks or words of recommendation, and there are no more requests to ask the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, thank you very much for this presentation and for answering the questions. We wish you, of course, a good recovery. We now ask for a chair of speech from Siim Kallas, Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U78	Madam Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! We live in challenging times. Over the last decade, the European Union has faced several crises: the debt crisis that started in 2008, the refugee crisis in 2015 and the health and economic crisis caused by unprecedented coronavirism that broke out last spring. Every difficulty has led to the need for the European Union to improve its policy and to cooperate more effectively. Protectionism, border closure and non-coordination were the key words at the beginning of the Coronary crisis. With non-coordinated steps, Member States temporarily put the cornerstone of the European Union, or four fundamental freedoms, on the sleep regime: the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. The disrupted or entangled supply chains showed how accustomed we were to unrestricted movement and how important this is for Europe. We have learned a great deal from the corona crisis together with the other Member States. The coordinated action plan of the 27 Member States, the reopening of borders, the rapid recovery plan agreement and the joint procurement of vaccines demonstrate the importance and usefulness of cooperation. Without a joint procurement of vaccines from European countries, we would be faced with chaos today, where the losers would undoubtedly be small countries. Still, a lot of things have gone wrong. The delay in the procurement of vaccines, the incorrect performance of suppliers' contracts, the application of protectionist, non-friendly measures to Europe in third countries, this shows that the European Union must strengthen its independent capacity to produce vaccines and medicines with a view to the future. What is very bad is that Member States have started to obtain vaccines from manufacturers whose products have not passed the quality and safety checks of the European Medicines Agency. This is not about the quality of vaccines, but, above all, about certain countries wanting to ignore the European Union as a phenomenon and find a way to deal separately with the Member States, dividing it into the Union. Despite a difficult year, important forward-looking initiatives in the green and digital sectors were launched. They create a cleaner and more sustainable environment for future generations to live in. Good listeners! Last April, the European Commission developed a historic plan for relaunching Europe and a renewed proposal for a long-term budget. The ability of Member States to re-launch their economies after the crisis is not the same and therefore a level playing field must be guaranteed for all, because a well-functioning common market will benefit all the countries of the European Union. On 27 May last year, the European Commission presented its draft budget, which is historic both because of its volume of 1.824 trillion and because of a message of cohesion and solidarity. Many were sceptical that the Heads of State or Government would quickly come to an agreement on the recovery package and the long-term budget, yet it was already born by the end of July. In order to implement the recovery package, the decision on the European Union's own resources still needs to be approved in all Member States. This decision is made in Estonia at the Riigikogu plenary session. The budget negotiations were very successful for Estonia and we were able to achieve the desired objectives on several issues. Previously, the European Union's subsidies to Estonia were forecast to decrease in the coming budgetary period. However, as a result of the negotiations, Estonia will receive 6.8 billion grants instead of 6.2 billion earlier. In addition, Estonia's re-launch plan will be estimated at 1.5 billion euros. It is also important to mention that Estonia managed to reduce the co-financing rate to 30% in the negotiations compared to the European Commission's offer of 45%. This will accelerate the implementation of projects and reduce the need for national co-financing by around a billion. An important achievement is to secure the additional funding needed for the construction of Rail Baltic and its favourable financing rate. We received EUR 1.56 billion in additional funding for the Rail Baltic project. Rail Baltic is a European highway for Estonia as a border country of the European Union, and it also helps us move closer to achieving our climate goals, it is important from a security perspective and it enhances the sense of cohesion between countries from Finland to Germany. Last week an agreement was reached with the European Parliament on the last disagreement, and Rail Baltic is guaranteed additional funding from the Connecting Europe Facility. Throughout last year, negotiations on the European Union budget period with their twists were on issues covered by the Committee on European Union Affairs. Dear Riigikogu! The resources for the new budget period and the recovery plan must contribute to two important objectives: the digital and green revolution. One third of the recovery plan and the entire EU budget are devoted to moving towards climate objectives. This will also help us to make the Estonian economy greener and greener. 3.3 billion euros has been earmarked for activities with an environmental impact for Estonia, including the funds of a completely new fair transition fund to be created. Estonia has been granted EUR 340 million from the Fund, which is the largest grant per capita compared to other Member States. This is a great support for the transition to a climate-friendly economy in Ida-Virumaa. A green turn is a joint undertaking of the European Union. The European Union has set an ambitious plan: to make Europe the first climate-neutral continent to set an example for others. This means reducing carbon emissions by up to 95% by 2050 compared to 1990. The green turn is not something that was born yesterday, nor is it intended to be carried out somewhere independently of us. The objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 was already decided in October 2014 with the participation of the Prime Minister of Estonia and confirmed as a binding commitment in May 2018. Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, who has just taken office on 16 July 2019, announced a new phase of the European Green Revolution ambition. In December of the same year, the Commission adopted a roof strategy in the form of a Green Agreement Communication, which is the basis for legislative initiatives in different fields. In order to achieve climate neutrality, the proposal for a so-called Climate Act was submitted by the Commission in March 2020 and already in June, the European Union Affairs Commission confirmed Estonia's views on both the Green Contract and the Climate Act. Estonia set itself one of the most ambitious targets of the European Union: to reduce greenhouse gases by 70% by 2030 compared to 1990. Figures show that reducing greenhouse gas emissions does not mean a setback in the economy. In the last 30 years, Estonia has both a 60% growth rate and a 60% reduction in emissions. In October 2020, the European Commission came up with a long-term strategy for the reconstruction of buildings. If the strategy is fully implemented, energy savings can be up to 60% in Estonia and CO2 emissions can be reduced by nearly 90%. In addition to meeting our climate targets, the wave of renovation will help to boost our economy. More than half of the funds devoted to renovation will be paid by the construction and material production sector. This will increase employment and consumption and help the economy recover more quickly. The draft Climate Act was passed at first reading in the Council of Ministers of the European Union in October and December. It then further endorsed the new climate target: a Union-wide reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 55% instead of 40%. All these decisions have been made with the participation of the Estonian Government. To date, these proposals have reached trilogues, i.e. trialogues between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament. With regard to the Green Agreement, the European Commission has already come up with a number of strategies on which the Committee on European Union Affairs has also formulated its position. For example, biodiversity strategy, farm strategy for plate, sustainability-enhancing chemical strategy, energy system integration strategy and hydrogen strategy, European industrial strategy, offshore renewable energy strategy and action plan for the circular economy. Within the framework of the Green Pact initiatives, for example, a forest strategy, a zero pollution action plan, a strategy to reduce methane emissions and a European Union strategy to adapt to climate change will soon be under way. Strategies do not yet commit themselves; they are roadmaps for subsequent legislative initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, The turn of the Green is a great ambition, the realisation of which has begun more than ten years ago, but implementation is progressing steadily. There's a lot of work to do. My colleagues and I agreed that there are 47 green treaty initiatives in total, some are in work, some are on the way. We are ready to discuss new legislative proposals and strategies in the Riigikogu. Good listeners! We live in momentous times. We are moving from an industrial economy to a digital economy and from fossil fuels to clean energy. Estonia has been talking about e-governance opportunities and the importance of e-identity for more than ten years. The e-Governance Declaration of Tallinn was signed during the Estonian Presidency. For the full functioning of the Digital Single Market, it is essential that citizens of all Member States have a high security electronic identity and that every national of a Member State can sign digitally. Such developments are persistent. But the corona crisis has shown how important digital solutions and skills are. Estonia, in cooperation with the World Health Organisation, has started a digital vaccination certificate project, which allows rapid and effective recognition of vaccination certificates from different countries, thus improving people's chances of travelling in the world more easily in the future. Last February, the European Commission came up with a strategy for the digital future of the European Union to ensure that digital migration benefits both people and businesses. We have taken a clear path towards strengthening Europe's digital sovereignty and setting standards ourselves instead of following others' own. The plan is to invest in ultra-fast internet access and develop super-processing of big data in order to create innovative solutions for medicine, transport and the environment. The aim is for the European Union to gain global leadership in the digital field. Estonia certainly shares its ambitions and hopes for the rapid development and cooperation of other Member States as well. Good Riigikogu! Like many others, the Commission on European Union Affairs carried out its own digital revolution due to the corona crisis. For almost a year now, the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs have taken place online. In the course of 2020, the European Commission held 73 meetings, 59 of them online. There were also seven joint sessions and 25 parliamentary hearings, 19 of them virtually. The Committee on European Union Affairs gave its position on 34 European Union initiatives. The views of Estonia have been clarified on the basis of the opinions of the Parliament's sectoral committees. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on European Union Affairs, colleagues and visitors to our sittings for being able to proceed smoothly with the work of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a major undertaking which is currently being dealt with closely in both the European Parliament and the Council. This is the organisation of a conference on the future of Europe. It is precisely at the level of national parliaments that we need to shape our position on the content of this exercise. The first question is in the sense of organising a conference on the future of Europe at all. Questions were asked at length about how many representatives of the various institutions sit around the table. However, the general features of the governance structure were established by the adoption of the joint statement last week. However, there is still a lack of clarity as to which problems are to be resolved. This is not the first time that high-level expert groups are organised to put forward proposals for the future of Europe. All of them are forgotten. It is not difficult to count these major problems in the European Union, in which the views of the different countries and of the various political groups in the European Parliament are dramatically colliding. It is hard to believe that such a conference can shape compromise solutions. The great compromises will eventually be created at the level of the leaders of the Member States, the Council of the European Union. We'll see. Good listeners! Despite the difficulties of the corona crisis, the European Union wants to implement a genuine digital and green pipeline to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 and create a cleaner and more sustainable environment for future generations. We have never had so much budgetary resources to invest in before, so it is very important to make good choices. Children and grandchildren who are born now depend on our decisions and actions today. I wish us all an open look and bold debates for this occasion. We will use the challenges we face to create a stronger Europe. The European Union is a project for all of us that everyone can contribute to. At this point, I would like to quote former Prime Minister Jüri Ratas: 'Europe must celebrate hope for the future, be a solution and encourage the next generations. Just as when we hear the word 'Estonia', the word 'Europe' must speak to our souls. And I think that the Riigikogu, as a representative of the people, should be involved as closely as possible in this work in the future. " Goldy words. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U79	Thank you, Honorable waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U80	Good manager! Good waitress! I have always admired you as a sovereign thinker, but Prime Minister, your daughter told me that sovereignty does not exist in a vacuum and is some kind of connection to sovereignty. But I remember the time of the Soviet Union when it was also said that the Estonian SSR or the USSR of Uzbekistan, the Turkmen USSR, are all independent states within the Soviet Union. Sometimes people say they don't want to make comparisons with the Soviet Union. But maybe you'll open up a little of the thought that your esteemed daughter Kaja Kallas spoke of, referring to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U81	Yes, the question of sovereignty is, of course, a big and very sensitive issue. The question is whether sovereignty and loneliness are the same thing. I don't think so. Inevitably, countries are interrelated and do their business together. Now, when compared to the Soviet Union, this comparison cannot add up. If we are also thinking about the previous questions that have been put here today to the Prime Minister, it must be borne in mind that the European Union's question is what needs to be done differently in order to better reflect sovereignty throughout this decision-making process. There is one member of the European Commission from every country, that is a very big thing, and the equal opportunity to decide depends very much on who represents the country there. The Nice meeting was intended to reduce the size of the Commission. I don't know how much it depended on me, but I've always thought it would be a very bad plan. So, in the European Commission, countries are equal. There will then be such a thing as voting on a qualified majority, which will give larger countries a little more opportunities and fewer smaller ones. That makes sense in itself. There are four votes in Estonia, which makes one vote for 300000+, and 29 votes in Germany, which makes one vote for three million. So there is no way to complain that our sovereignty is greatly harassed. The European Parliament has the same proportion. In the European Parliament, the Germans have one member per million, and we have, right, one member per 200000. But this decision-making mechanism, which is extremely complex and which was much discussed here before, is therefore so difficult that, in fact, ultimately, it is the Member States that decide. This decision-making mechanism works pretty well. So, in the end, there is a sovereign right of the state to defend its views quite strongly in all herbaceous and similar matters; there are quite a few examples of this in practice. So in this sense, it is a united sovereignty, indeed, that we do not even share it, but we have put our ideas, our goals and the preservation of our national independence together with other similar partners, who also want to do their national business. But if I answer that question, I can take a really long time, so I'm gonna end up in this place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U82	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U83	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you also agree with the position of the Prime Minister, which he expressed in reply to my question, that since it is not always possible to objectively define who is ethnic Estonian and who is not, it is as if there is no need at all to feel the concern that perhaps the share of Estonians in the Estonian population will fall and perhaps Estonians will remain in a minority, just like that which threatens many Western European nations? I believe that such a distraction from such an important demographic issue, so that the Prime Minister does not answer it, is very worrying and does not give confidence that the current government has a clear policy for the survival of the Estonian nation throughout the ages.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U84	Thank you. I have listened to your question in the previous debate, and I have also listened to that answer. I have also read your interviews on this subject and your party's programming documents, and I will ask you what is a concrete proposal. If we have Estonian citizens and there are, I don't know, about 160,000 naturalised citizens who are not of Estonian origin, how can we distinguish between them? But I think it's such a big deal, and I'm happy to discuss these things. I am really very familiar with your views and I am undoubtedly of Estonian origin, so I am also very interested in the ethnic preservation of Estonia. But what I would like to say to you, when I listened to this debate, is that, in fact, the European Union is extremely attentive to ethnic communities. In the European Union, if I am not mistaken, there are 23 official languages. This means that you can give all your speeches in the European Union, including in the European Commission, in your national language. Only then, as we were told at the beginning very simply, it will be very difficult for people to understand you then. But it's possible. In the European Parliament, I have given speeches in Estonian, but precisely according to the same logic, that my message should be understandable. But this is an extremely sensitive subject, and attention will be paid to it. For example, I ask you if you can tell me what to call the Irish Prime Minister. You cannot name the Irish Prime Minister in any other way than Gaelic, and that is Taoiseach. So, too, when it was the Irish Presidency, we had to always address the Prime Minister with the word Taoiseach, while at the same time the language is practically not used in Ireland. In addition, all kinds of ethnic identities have been supported in every way, including financially. There is no levelling in the European Union as an organisation. The fact that English invades is a completely different question. But, let's say, when I speak here as Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs and I speak like it is on behalf of the Union, there is no fear of any kind of levelling of ethnic communities or of any desire to reduce their importance. Once again: in culture, all cultural programmes have all kinds of festivals, all kinds of opportunities to preserve and protect ethnic identity. But, of course, the subject you raised is very serious and very big. It's more of an internal policy issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U85	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U86	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good performer! I have always been amazed at the enthusiasts of the European Union's ability to live with cognitive dissonance, or to create a fantasy world for themselves, and to convey this fantasy world with conviction to everyone else, talking about the affairs of the European Union. The best example of this is the statement at the beginning of your presentation that, without joint supplies of vaccines, there would be chaos in Europe at present. I am sorry, because of these joint deliveries, there is now chaos with vaccination in the European Union, and very serious chaos. Another statement came to this end that the European Union is helping to prevent protectionism. On the contrary, the European Union sanctioned the protectionist steps of Italy for the export of the AstraZeneca vaccine. And we also saw this protectionism in the spring when the focus was on personal protective equipment. The various countries, as well as the European Commission, were simply active in protectionism. More brutal behaviour has gone through, isn't it, the rule of law is how Brussels acted under the Northern Ireland Protocol? I have a question: do you not really see that the words and actions of the European Union are becoming increasingly distant?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U87	Well, let's say, I am the enthusiast of the European Union, certainly, so I am still looking and seeing positive moments. But I have not said anywhere that the European Union has successfully fought protectionism. I completely agree with you that things have actually turned into a very bad hand. And, of course, to protect these four freedoms and to resist protectionism in every way, there have been several setbacks during the corona crisis. We can argue whether we could have obtained vaccines better on our own. I can't answer that. Actually, I don't think we either have an adequate answer to that. But as far as protectionism is concerned, I agree. Since I am convinced of a market economy, I see such tendencies with concern. Of course, the biggest setback during the cocoon crisis was the suspension of the movement of goods when cars were standing on the Polish border. And it was not only an operational issue, but also a purely technical one. I see a lot of things that should be and could be different in the European Union. So it cannot be said at all that I am trying to protect the European Union in all things. But where I believe there's a good project, I'll protect you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U88	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U89	Thank you very much. Good waitress! In your response to Ruuben Kaalep, you have failed to convince me of the preservation of ethnic interests in the European Union. But let's try it again. You quoted at the beginning of your speech the four fundamental foundations of the European Union's action. There were mobility and goods and work, in short, clear economic and understandable motives, which have clearly justified the Estonian people's desire to be part of the European Union. It is clear that it is really clear that the people of Estonia only want to be in economic union. But why is your government, at the same time, actively supporting policies that go far beyond the framework of the European Union's economic policy, particularly those that are deepening and deeply dividing ideological phenomena within the European Union, those that affect our cultural policy, the social communities and morals that invade our ritual, cultural and family life and other phenomena that destroy national traditions? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U90	Well, that's now the question of whether I agree with you. I don't think I agree with that. If we are now discussing European Union policy in this Chamber, I can say that the Committee on European Union Affairs is the place where we can formulate our opposition points to all kinds of things. If we have our own views, we will formulate them because so many bad things have been mentioned in your question, which all deserve to be changed. In this case, I would always say that I would ask for concrete proposals and then think about how to discuss these specific proposals and how to deal with them. There are procedures for everything. But I do not share such an apocalyptic assessment of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U91	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U92	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Last autumn, we organised an information collection in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs among Estonian opinion leaders and business associations and asked how Estonia could proceed with the corona crisis. Taking these results together with one sentence, I say that there was a concentrated idea on the table: instead of doing a lot of different activities with our limited budget, it would be necessary to concentrate our collective efforts around some of the cores and Estonia could become a green digital state in the future. Businesses, the public sector, R &amp; D and public image building could focus on this idea. We are already a digital state, a green digital state would already take account of the whole European direction. You have an invaluable experience in the European Commission. How do you think this idea could fly in the European Union? Would that be credible? And would it be a term that Estonia could actively use, define this slogan, decorate and regroup with activities? Perhaps it would also help shape the mindset and help unite Estonia for a new goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U93	Well, what can be against that? But when it comes to how the European Commission feels about it, I think it is very positive at the level of such a general objective. But the devil is hidden in the details. We are famous for Estonia being a digital state. Before that, we were also famous for the fact that Estonia is financially very clear about politics and we have financial matters well under control. That's the case with the digital state, yes, that we have a huge amount actually done here. When compared to another country, such as Belgium, where I have had the opportunity to live, it is unthinkable. It is absolutely incomparable how much business in Estonia is easier than, for example, in Belgium. So this place is clear. But now, as we have been hinting here today, rather than hinting at it, but we saw it, things do not all work as they should. And I think that Estonia's respective institutions and government have a pretty big task here to assess the state of affairs and see how we can proceed, because we have gone very far forward in the public sector, but if you look at all these Commission-published reviews, you will see that in the private sector we are far from as good as Denmark, for example. I mean, here's the place to deal with. Well, the whole green policy is extremely massive and big. The Commission would certainly approve if there were one country to make it its guiding principle. Only the question is what it specifically means and how we will solve all the problems that the green turn entails. And these problems, as we know very well, are not few either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U94	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for your presentation. My question directly pushes the text of the report. You mentioned that Estonia has both a 60% growth and a 60% reduction in emissions in the last 30 years. Did you use this 60% here simply as a metaphor, or have we only had 60% of total economic growth over 30 years? Maybe I misunderstood something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U96	I don't know how to comment on that here. That's the kind of data I had, and that's what I used. I can't comment any more, at least I don't have any other data in my head.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U97	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U98	Dear Vice-Chairman, Good waitress! You were also responsible in the European Commission for combating fraud. In the Court of Auditors, Juhan Parts was in turn responsible for a study on the use of European Union funding in Africa. The study indicated that the European Union's aid to Africa is, to a large extent, simply being stolen. It seems that development aid is like a bucket of holes where money flows into the pockets of corrupt rulers. How do you estimate to avoid stealing development aid and what conclusions should Estonia draw from this? Should Estonia even pull together development aid until a large part goes to increase the property of dictators and autocrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U99	Thank you. Troubleshooting is absolutely right. The same OLAF, which was under my authority, really revealed several waste and stealing of development aid money. For example, I did not call these countries just in case, I might also be wrong that money was received in one country to set up a refugee camp, but that refugee camp did not really exist in that country and the money went somewhere else instead. So there were examples. In the European Union, of course, let us say, dictators and any other direct abusers of power should not be given money and should not be given money. It is also a matter of fact that the European Union's development aid goes to non-profit organisations, but these non-profit organisations may be of all kinds. So that's a pretty big problem. But here's the philosophical question again: are we going to say that we are going to leave these far worse-off countries in trouble? We're working on it. Very much people can also be punished for not being able to control the use of money. And then the comparison is that you see where China helps, right? But I can also tell you that this assistance from China to Africa has been a very strong setback. The Chinese authorities have asked very serious questions about the use of money. That's a problem, yes, but you can't give up that help. We just have to try to channel this cash flow carefully. But I agree that this is actually a very, very big problem. However, once again, if you take the European Union as the largest donor of humanitarian aid, in fact, this aid will go to a very large extent to the people who really need it. But I agree with you that this is an endless struggle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U100	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U101	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, thank you for this meaningful speech and a good reflection. In my question, I would refer to the link made by Mr Pohlak and, in his view, to the unfair link between the European Union's structural instruments and the fulfilment of the rule of law criteria. Understandably, Poland, like Estonia, has had a certain expectation over the last few decades of access to structural funds, or somehow the understanding that it is entitled to use certain European Union budgetary resources as it sees fit. At the same time, when we talk about sovereignty, sovereignty also exists in all other countries. The fact that Dutch taxpayers may not want to finance LGBT-free areas in Poland should also be understandable. Do you agree with me that there are several aspects of sovereignty and that sovereignty does not automatically affect the right to use a certain amount of funds from the European Union budget without any conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U102	Thank you. Your questioning referred to the problem of the complexity of the situation. And with that, I totally agree that it is very complicated. Overall, funding has so far been strongly linked to the rational use of money. This has been one of the main priorities of both the European Commission and the Court of Auditors: to ensure that the money has been used properly. Now, the question is whether money has always been used properly in these countries or in any other country. But I would not even like to take very strong positions, because there has been an incident in European history when Austrian membership of the European Union was suspended, because there were political changes that the European Union did not accept. And afterwards, they still think it's a mistake. So there is such an intervention in political positions, but there is also a very strong camp in the European Union, which shares such views. As you have even mentioned, there are major donors in countries that actually have a very large say in these matters. But the simplest answer is this: the situation is complicated and the question is very complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U103	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! It's always a pleasure and a pleasure to listen to you. But I would also like to argue against the European Union's ability, even as regards vaccination. By the end of next month, for example, Israel will be vaccinated by all people over 16 years of age. Britain, which restored independence, is a brilliant example of how an independent country does not have to wait for the EU-wide amounts of vaccine given with its fingertips. But I wanted to talk to you about this support fund. Its aim, as we know today, is still to help southern Europe. The Italian banks alone will receive hundreds of billions of financial injections. And critics say that the biggest mistake of this whole package is that it is distributed over a very long period of time, it is ideologically oriented and its impact on the economy, both for the European economy and for the Estonian economy, is essentially minimal. However, it does change all the fundamental principles of the European Union, because no country has joined the European Union under the conditions that are currently welcoming us. However, it is only by leaving the European Union that you can get out of it. Please tell me if there is any hope now that some countries will not join the recovery facility and this whole stupid project will fail!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U105	I don't know that kind of thing. However, the process of approving the own resources decision, which is an essential part of this recovery package, in all national parliaments, does not just have to go. I can tell you that. Past experience also shows that there are differences of opinion between countries and their approval does not necessarily go too easily. But I don't know, the claim that this is necessarily designed for southern Europe is, in some ways, always a question. It is also true that Italy, for example, is known to be divided into two parts: one is Northern Italy and the other is Southern Italy. These are like two completely different worlds, with these numbers, which are given, how much the European Union has supported southern Italy, being colossal. I don't have it all in my head right now, but there have been no very significant changes. And if you also think about the whole Greek crisis in 2015, all the data and the pictures that were when the Greeks were calling us out, how we did not know how to do our business, but then it turned out that the Greek pensioner would receive a pension that was received with the European Union's money, even more colossally anyway. But in the case of Greece, it has been corrected, so that is certainly no longer the case for Greece. Well, yeah. In this sense, these disputes are pending. Directly, this recovery fund is about 6% of the money in circulation in the European Union, which is not in itself too much. It either causes inflation or not, but it does not affect much. But I admit that all these questions are delicate and there are certainly more disputes ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U106	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U107	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I actually really, really, really thank you for holding your report here in this form. Even if I disagree with you in everything, it is extremely enjoyable how you can argue and answer all the questions so that you do not label or insult anyone. But I'd like you to sort out a certain contradiction that I have left with your answers. You have just said that in the European Union, donors are countries that have a very strong say in decision-making processes, but in the past you said in one answer that Estonia has the same weight in every respect. Which one's the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U108	Formally, Estonia has the same opportunity to participate with everyone. But, in essence, of course, there is no way to overlook the fact that the large Member States have a somewhat greater say. So the answer is controversial. But actually, let's say the other way around: that the power of the big countries is absolute and they dominate all small countries completely, you can't say anything. Small countries, of course, have many opportunities. However, I can also give you a number of examples where small countries have decided on their own to oppose large countries, but this is not usually a good outcome. So it makes sense to find your own way out there somewhere in between. On the other hand, I say firmly that defending our positions within the European Union is possible and needs to be addressed, but it must be done tactically and wisely and find allies and choose a strategy that is viable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U109	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U110	Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U111	And now, before we go to the negotiations, the European Union Affairs Committee has proposed that, if we do not finish our sitting at one o'clock, we extend the sitting until this item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on European Union Affairs to extend the session of 16 March until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U112	56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was approved and we are working a little longer today. Let's go to the negotiations. Firstly, Eerik-Niles Kross, on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U113	I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U114	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U115	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the previous speakers, particularly the Prime Minister, who has now personally taken a part of the severity of the epidemic that has hit us all, but nevertheless considered it possible to speak to us here today. The debate on European Union policy is now taking place in such an empty hall for the first time, but in this format for the 16th time. It has always been the same: the Prime Minister, the chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, and then the political groups are presenting their political vision of European Union affairs. This last one's always seemed a little weird to me, but we're gonna do it again this time. Just in case, I have not coordinated my speech with the group. So all the suspicious things I say, please write to my cabbage garden, and all the wise thoughts I say belong, of course, as they used to say, to the party and the government. Listening to today's questions, I once again wanted to emphasise what Winston Churchill once said about democracy, and what I and, I think, our party also think applies to the European Union: the European Union is a very poor institution, but it has not come up with any better. In this poor institution, we must live and we want to live. An old friend of mine once said that as much as he remembers, he has always lived in a groundbreaking time. As far as I can remember, almost every debate on European Union policy that has been held here has dealt with some of the current crises. Once there was an economic crisis, then there was the budget crisis, the Greek crisis, the financial crisis, the migration crisis and finally the climate crisis, which we talked about very much in 2019. Today, of course, we are not getting over or around the serious health crisis and probably the economic crisis. Of course, we are talking over and over again about how the European Union is heroically overcoming this crisis. Before I go to more earthly things, I just throw into the air the idea that maybe such crises are the inevitable manifestation of the world or of mankind at this stage of development. Perhaps this is some kind of evolutionary social phenomenon, where the standard of living has risen so much in the last hundred years that tense situations, such an irritant, are needed that mankind is anxious to improve itself. But now to more earthly things. As we have heard here again today on a number of issues, and this is also an undeniable, corona crisis and coping with it, or, more precisely, not coping, especially in the initial phase of the crisis, both in the European Union and in the Member States individually, has undoubtedly offered to all those who wish to criticise or even declare a lot of substance to the European Union. It is clear that in times of crisis, both the worst and the best characteristics of people are still evident, and so they tend to be with the institutions. So, yes, the European Union and we, together with the European Union and separately, have made many mistakes in this crisis. The beginning of the epidemic was really startling for fans of the European Union if you want. For everyone who was accustomed to the idea that the European Union was always helping out, goods moving freely, the free movement of people in Europe is self-evident and today an inalienable fundamental right, etc., it turned out to be quite a shock that it was not so self-evident. It was quite instructive to see how the self-preservation instinct of the peoples of Europe, as well as the self-preservation in the Member States of the European Union, dominated at the beginning of the crisis, of course, and began to exacerbate the crisis rather than alleviate it. We realised that there was no European epidemic policy, no mechanisms and no mechanism for regulating the crisis in this situation. Health is strictly national. The result was, well, maybe not cataphal, but it was very complicated. However, unlike some previous speakers, I think that Europe was able to learn relatively quickly, and the turn has now taken place. In fact, Europe has realised that it is better together than separately in these matters as well. Despite much cursed slowness, bureaucracy and 100 other woes, Europe has managed to agree on an unprecedented package of assistance, to show solidarity, to achieve pan-European vaccines in all Member States, including the smaller and the poorest, and to launch a number of excellent initiatives, or at least the potentially excellent ones that have already been mentioned. I'm not going to the details. To those who say that we alone could have done much better in this crisis, we would have already vaccinated everything and look at Israel or look at Britain, I would say that comparison with Israel and Great Britain is, of course, a high measure of self-esteem. I would still like to compare us with our destiny mates, i.e. those countries that we would be among if we were not in the European Union. Moldova received the first 14,000 vaccine doses on 4 March, even the first one in the country. Georgia received the first vaccines on 13 March. Ukraine received the first vaccines at the end of February. They never even had a plan to buy vaccines before. The amount of Ukrainian vaccines would be equal to 3000 doses for Estonia. To date, nearly 150,000 people have been vaccinated with at least one injection in Estonia. In Moldova, 4400 people have died in the COVID, which is four times as many as we do. These countries do not expect billions of them to come out of the crisis in Europe's single currency. Of course, I do not want to gloat at the troubles of others here, and I would like us, the European Union, to be able to help our closest neighbours and our old comrades faster and better. But what I want to say is that those who rush to claim that Estonia, acting on its own, was able to do better by obtaining a vaccine on its own and alone, and who are calling for the abandonment of joint procurement mechanisms in Europe, for the violation of contracts and for the procurement of Sputnik, whether they do not know what they are saying or if they do, are malicious.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U116	Thank you, but your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U117	That's too bad. Then I'll give the rest of my speech in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U118	Yeah, thanks! Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U119	Thank you. I'm starting to get a signal, so please forgive me if I don't show you the picture. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U120	Five plus three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U121	Am I even audible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U122	Yeah. Five plus three minutes, eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U123	Ow!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U124	Yeah, we're here. We're on. Martin, how are you? We're probably... Do you copy, Martin? I can't hear you. I have a suggestion: we will proceed with the negotiations, the technical staff will contact Martin Helme in the meantime, and we will be able to hear him back on the line later and then also his speech. Is Riina Sikkut ready to speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party? Yes, please! But we can't hear you, Riina. No, I can't hear you, Riina. I can't hear you. I can't hear you. I'll see you, but I can't hear you. No, I still can't hear you. But let's try, let's go on, nobody's losing their right to speak. You'll be back on the line. But let's try the Oudekki Loone next. Is Oudekki Loone there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U125	Hi! Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U126	Hi! It is. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U127	Thank you. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U128	Five plus three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U129	Thank you. On 14 September 2003, the Estonian referendum decided that, as a small country, we could influence the world more, the more we sit behind more tables, and the place behind the European Union's negotiating tables, with the right of veto, gives us an important opportunity to tell us what our immediate area should be. Technically, we have implemented this choice of Estonian people quite well so far. The representation of Estonia's interests has become increasingly effective in time. The work of the past few years can be particularly satisfied. For example, the Government of Jüri Ratas managed to ensure that Estonian farmers would receive more support in the next European budget period than until now could be expected under agreements with Brussels. 1.35 billion direct payments are 35% more than in the previous period. However, the current government's European recovery and resilience facility and REACT-EU money applications also include large-scale healthcare investments, including by directing 380 million euros to the construction of the Tallinn Hospital. Only thanks to the great work of Estonian politicians, the transition of the oil shale sector is also eligible for aid in the fair transition fund created to compensate for the damage caused by the green turn. The last governments have been able to negotiate even the continuation of Rail Baltic funding on the same basis as the earlier system. We hope that the forthcoming negotiations on CO2 quota trading systems will go into this series of success stories and that Estonia will be able to provide enough free quota for its oil shale sector. However, our role in the European Union must not be limited to playing as well as possible on the ready playground. The right to sit at the table also means the right to design playgrounds and to change the rules. We have the opportunity to do what has long been the responsibility of the great powers to shape the future of the world. The people of Estonia want to be part of this. Studies show that we want a public debate on the future of Europe, we are at the forefront of this indicator in Europe. Let us listen to the wishes of our citizens. We are taking the planned European conference on the future seriously, we are giving the floor to the citizens. This is not just a bureaucratic undertaking declared to be a timeshare. In 2021, no one can pretend that the structure of the European Union created by the Maastricht Treaties of 1993 somehow meets current needs. At that time, the inflexible ordoliberism born of the myth of the end of history and the foreign policy of the salesman of democracy have been shaken down. A new policy is needed, a new objective is needed, perhaps also new institutions. In order to speak seriously about Europe's choices for the future, one must first and foremost ask what is the most important challenge of today's material life. What are the dangers that prevent all Europeans from achieving their full potential and living a good life? What is the biggest challenge for today's world economy? This is summed up in one word: the platform economy. Uber, Airbnb, Amazon, Bolt, Wolt, Yandex and all of these others are redesigning our daily lives at any given moment, forcing increasingly narrower work, goods or service providers to do business, create new value without them. Silicon Valley Behemoths are currently roaming freely in all of our backyards, overlooking national laws, whistling the standards of worker protection, bypassing taxation, deciding who can say what and how and where election campaigns can be conducted on topics that suit them or only depending on their engine. In this way, these digital giants have targeted their society's take-over target at the most important target of the state. Silicon Valley and the drug capitalists are all the more asserting that they simply do not need this honorable institution. Of course, in reality, platforms cannot do without countries either. Let us remind you that the 2008 crisis was solved with a state guarantee. It was public money that bought out the financial sector, and aid to the financial sector also kept the high-tech sector alive. The wounds of this experience have also pushed Silicon Valley to confront Wall Street, hoping that crypto currencies will replace the dollar and financial social media J.P. Morgan, Goldman Sachs and others like them. It does not take much fantasy to understand what the response of the platform giants to the fact that in 2020 and 2021 countries have had to buy out not only the financial sector but the whole economy. The example of California has inspired many Silicon Valley clones from Shenzhen to Mumbai, from Dubai to Moscow. Today we are not talking about American hegemony anymore. We're talking about the hegemony of Silicon Valley. We are no longer talking about China's threat, but about Shenzhen's, not about the Islamic threat, but about Dubai's. This hegemony creates a world that is completely privatized, where political power is reduced to the authority of the interests of large companies. This, of course, has not been the first time in history; we have seen a world dominated by large private actors, such as the British East India Company. It was a colonial world, it was a world of slavery, it was a world of injustice. There's no need to want this world back. Just as it is not necessary to want back a world divided between the monopolistic companies of the second half of the 19th century, where workers do not have rights and individual initiative and there is very little room for real choices. But fortunately, history also offers success stories. Theodore Roosevelt, with his big smile and a big stick, was able to put the monopoly corporations in position. That is how we must be able to do so in 21st century Europe. But what was that stick of Roosevelt he could use? Strong and organized labor movements, it was a class struggle that kept the robbers under pressure. And today we see the same class struggle being reborn, both in Silicon Valley headquarters and in their farthest outposts around the world. Amazon's employees organise, Uber's employees organise, Bolt leaders in Estonia demand the right to a trade union, because they are actually employees too. We politicians must listen to this call. One country is not enough here. The attack on the corporations of the networked platform must be answered with coordinated political steps, all of us. We need to line up and restructure the existing European institutions in such a way that they place on the pedestal the well-being of our people, full employment, not inflation control, sector agreements with the force of law, which actually free the movement of workers, rather than giving companies the freedom to obtain the cheapest labour force. We must give citizens a real right to decide their future back. We must give the workers back the right to participate honestly in the fruitage of our work. To this end, Silicon Valley monsters must be firmly subjected to the laws of countries where corporate crypto money, corporate tax havens, corporate self-proclaimed codes of conduct have no place at all and no say at all. We are turning Europe into a Europe of people, a Europe of workers, a Europe of citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U130	Thank you. Martin Helme, is there a connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U131	Okay, let's try it again. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U132	Five plus three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U133	I can't hear you back, but I heard everyone else heard me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U134	We're here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U135	The European Union acts only in the form of one-way movement. At all times and ever faster, the power moves from Member States to the Centre. Today, too, we have heard many times how the Commission does this, wants it, has launched a new policy in a new area. It is as if there is no longer any need to ask whether it is really the competence of the Commission, whether there is a mandate of the Treaties, whether there is a desire, a need or a consent of the Member States. It is therefore necessary to remind everyone very clearly and loudly: the European Commission serves the interests of the Member States and of the Member States. The Commission exists for the satisfaction of the Member States, not the other way around. In practice, however, we see that it is precisely the opposite. In practice, we can see how the Commission deals with the blatant hijacking of power in these last areas, which until now have been the exclusive competence of the Member States. We see it on immigration and asylum issues, we see it on health and social issues, we also see it on educational issues, for example, but indeed on tax issues, for example. It's done brazenly by twisting and insanely interpreting contracts. This is done by grossly reversing the sovereignty of the Member States. There is much talk about the rule of law, using this part to blackmail the more independent Member States, but the greatest violation of the rule of law lies in the European Union's own institutions. The best examples are the forced imposition on Member States of immigrants, the unilateral suspension of the Brexit Northern Ireland Protocol, discretionary decisions to prevent the export of medicines or personal protective equipment, the massive financing by the European Central Bank of Member States through debt purchase programmes, the intervention of one country in the internal affairs of Catalonia with a heavy fist, or the failure of the Commission to comply with the Council's decisions on the re-financing facility. With all its self-pretentious and narcissistic rhetoric, the European Union is anything but a phenomenon of the rule of law. The European Union is acting openly on the principle of 'the objective consecrations the means'. This objective is the total concentration of power on the Centre. This power, in turn, implements a very narrow and very extreme left-liberal ideological policy. This policy has been declared to be the only right one and not to tolerate debate. The opponents of this policy are not considered merely representatives of competing views, but have been declared Heresis and are actively suppressed. Such a policy is intrinsically anti-democratic and reminds us of this centralised totalitarian alliance, from which many of the Member States of the European Union have now fled from humanity. European values have been hijacked and turned upside down as an expression. It now marks compulsory mass immigration, compulsory left-radical hostility against traditional families and compulsory self-degrading of indigenous peoples in Europe on a national and racial basis. Today's European Union and its leaders have chosen a very dangerous path. If the Member States are not allowed to organise their lives in the way that voters direct their politicians in these countries, they will soon come to a choice: either to leave the Union, as the British did, or to accept that, for a small amount of money, for beautiful settlements, not only their democracy and freedoms have been taken away from them, but also the fundamentals of their national culture. If countries, such as Hungary or Poland or anyone else, are forced to leave the Union for the sake of their national self-being, then in any case, we must ask ourselves whether to leave or remain in Estonia. The choice is not between being a slave to Brussels or Moscow. The choice is whether to be a slave to someone else or a master in his own country. Our party stands for the right to host the Estonian people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U136	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. But I still can't hear it. I still can't hear you. But let's keep going and deal with Riina Sikkut's technical problems. Is Urmas Reinsalu ready on behalf of the Isamaa Group? Oh, I'm sorry! He's in the hall. Five plus three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U137	Dear Members of Parliament! Dear people of Estonia! Dear Prime Minister! First of all, Madam Prime Minister, you have a strong health! First of all, I would like to say a big thank you to those European countries that have helped us in this corona virus crisis or offered us their help in different ways. Estonia has also provided assistance to other countries during this crisis, and it has had, I believe, first and foremost, a symbolic value to emphasise that we are facing unknown and difficult shoulder to shoulder in this crisis. I would like to mention here our support for Spain, Italy, the Czech Republic and a number of other leaders. Now, about today's challenges to the European Union. First of all, obviously the rejection of the corona virus. It is extremely important, at the core, to increase the purchasing capacity of vaccines in the European Union, including the independent production capacity for vaccines. We urgently need clear rules to restore safe free movement. The question here is that there have been a lot of initiatives, a lot of beer recommendations, but in reality we do not have a clear agenda and a plan of how everything will happen after vaccination, if we also have sick people and all that. In reality, there is no alternative; here, in Europe, rules must be agreed, just as the recommendation of the Council of Ministers in the autumn was. Looking ahead, it is necessary to ensure Europe's strategic commitment to crises. Estonia has taken the decision last year to establish an agency for our national reserves. In reality, we also need to do this Europe-wide so that we have the capacity for resources across Europe, which is part of the realisation of strategic autonomy. We need a plan for the future to prevent such pandemics from spreading in the world. What happened as a worldwide spread of the virus should not have happened. The European Union must, when reforming the WHO, develop its own package of proposals, which the Member States represent from the European Union, and be prepared to co-finance it. Secondly, exiting the economic crisis and ensuring the competitiveness of the European economy in the world. I would like to mention the extension of the digital market and the free trade agreements, hopefully, we will also be able to talk about them again with the new American administration, but, of course, it is also important to open up new markets towards the Pacific. In Estonia, it is primarily the interests of restarting and developing entrepreneurship that must serve the resources of the Retirement Facility and the Financial Perspective. I consider it important to encourage funds from financial instruments that would later allow these funds to bounce back into the state budget. As far as the competitiveness of tax policy is concerned, it must maintain the principle of unanimity within the European Union. And I would like to stress that the green thread must also not be used to implement a back door-qualified or reverse-qualified decision-making model in tax matters. A business-friendly heirloom. This is the political approach of the Fatherland. The green turn must be based on the fact that Europe remains competitive. The implementation of the green turn in Estonia is also important for the competitiveness of the green economy. And with this pathos from the Prime Minister's speech, I completely agree. A good example is our initiative to develop the Baltic offshore wind farm project. However, with regard to entrepreneurship, I join Oudekki Loone here with the fact that it is necessary to ensure free quotas for our companies during the transitional period. This must be one and clear government task, just as the previous government fixed it. Thirdly, active Europe in the world. The European Union must be influential and more influential in the processes facing the world. Europe must develop close cooperation with the United States; there is no alternative. It is important that the idea of an alliance of democratic states, which the President of the United States of America has put forward, is actively developed. I am convinced that the European Union should be very active and speak with one voice on the initiative of the Alliance of Democratic States, its establishment. The European Union must block aggression in the world, maintain a policy of non-recognition against the aggressors, and courageously resist crimes against humanity and violations of human rights in the world. The global mechanism of sanctions for human rights violations, approved last year, must be implemented boldly. I consider it important for Estonia to take the initiative here and to organise in the future a conference of friends and assistance in Ukraine, along with the democratic forces of Belarus, in the light of this, with a view to the future, to organise free elections in Belarus as well. Support for Georgia's democratic processes is also important. Next, the enlargement of the European Union. I express my support for the European Union's enlargement policy in the Balkans. As regards the enlargement of the European Union, the Eastern Partnership countries must also have a clear perspective. I also call on Estonia to support the Eastern Partnership countries' cooperation format, which is divided into two parts: cooperation with those countries that are interested in political integration with the European Union, and with those countries that want good neighbourly relations with the European Union, but do not see their future as a member of the European Union. Fourthly, European security. There are no alternatives to the European Union's defence cooperation and, above all, to standards in terms of capacity development under limited resource conditions. I would remind you that it was during the Estonian Presidency that the European Union also set the target of achieving 2% in the defence budgets of all the countries of the European Union. And this is something that Estonia must continue to remember. Fifth, a digital turn. It is important to implement sufficient resources in the EMF. I think we should also fully support the European Charter of Fundamental Digital Rights. Digital rights are human rights in today's world and should also be defined in Estonia at the level of constitutional law and law. Sixthly, on migration issues, in the process of the migration pact, countries must maintain sovereignty. The current proposal does not guarantee this. It is important to protect Europe's borders under migratory pressure. The word "solidary" does not mean forced euphemism. Seventh, the future of Europe. A conference for the future of Europe is meeting. We see the European Union as a vision of modern, influential, prosperity, the way of life and freedom of our continent. We do not support the opening up of the Treaties. Centralisation as a vision for the future is not appropriate; we want to shape Europe as a community of equal Member States. Eighthly, representatives of Estonia, our government must honestly defend these positions in European cooperation, which we consider important in the view of our national interests. We need to be active in Europe, discussing the future of the Union and its practical decisions, and to seek allies and actively support decisions that match our views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U138	Thank you. Let's try it again. Riina Sikkut, is there a connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U139	Thank you, good manager. I hope now, the third time I hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U140	I can hear you. Everything's fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U141	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Chair of the European Union Affairs Committee for their constructive presentations in the debate on European Union policy. In fact, the Prime Minister described very nicely the importance of membership of the European Union for Estonia and the importance of our credibility. As time is right, almost all the rapporteurs have described the impact of the crisis on how the crisis has been reflected against the European Union. And indeed, the crisis is testing people and testing institutions. It must be accepted, taken into account and made an effort to ensure that we are actually stronger when we face each of the next crises. The second focus that was in the speeches of the rapporteurs is a hero or, I'm sorry, a pin jump, that's a very good new term for the Prime Minister, and I hope it goes into wider use. But this gig jump we have to do together and united. We welcome the strong message from the Prime Minister that Estonia supports the establishment of legally binding climate-neutrality goals both within the European Union and in Estonia. Now, if we look at what we want to achieve in the coming years and decades, the European Union has set ambitious and, let us be honest, actually comprehensive targets. These objectives affect our entrepreneurship, industry, education, everyday behaviour, as well as the country's governance and role in the world. These are the objectives of a green turn and a digital turn to support this green turn. Vig jump is not an abstract climate neutrality or a reduction of invisible carbon emissions. It is a cleaner and more habitable environment; it is the preservation of biodiversity, the fuller and longer-term use of resources taken from the ground. This is no stranger or imposed artificial purpose; it is essential. It is also important for us to set an example in the world and demonstrate that such a change on such a scale is really possible and is not a fantastic dream. In Estonia, digital revolutions are perhaps easier to understand or generally acceptable, in contrast to zig-jumping. Of course, we use the data we collect for smarter decisions, we communicate with the country from a distance, not when we go to service offices and sign the paper, we fill out the tax return in minutes, we use e-school and digital history. By digitising-automating like this, we need fewer hands and we can do smarter work. It's kind of easy to accept. But the digital revolution is also supported by a green turn, whether it is to monitor the movement of materials in the circulation, more precise, less surplus machine or generally less paper-based and more work to fly in. Countries and regions outside Europe are also digitising and greening. But the European Union stands out by the fact that our aim is still a human-faced digital revolution. The data is human. Privacy is important. Without paying attention to cyber security, no system can be created. There is no way that a turnaround can be managed at the expense of people who are less or less adaptable. The transition must be fair, that is to say, to allow people to continue their livelihood and not to amplify inequalities. The European Union is a union of values. The European Pillar of Social Rights was signed during the Estonian Presidency on 17 November 2017. The Estonian Prime Minister at the time, Jüri Ratas, who signed the document on behalf of the Council, said that the social pillar represents what Europe believes in. "We want a Europe that fights unemployment, poverty and discrimination, a Europe that offers equal opportunities for young people and vulnerable people. The social pillar builds on our common values and directs our future work towards a fairer Europe. " This social pillar, or 20 principles and rights from lifelong learning to gender equality, from fair pay to long-term care, is something that carries us together and united through these turns and leaps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U142	I'm sorry! Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U143	Yes, three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U144	Three extra minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U145	I am very pleased that the European Union is moving forward with the social pillar agenda and I consider it extremely important that Estonia devotes itself to the implementation of the principles of the social pillar in the same way as to the implementation of the green turn and digital turn. We tend to forget that cohesion is not just between Member States. This does not mean that German, Swedish or Dutch taxpayers' money is put into Estonian light traffic routes, nursing homes, implementation of work capacity reform or career guidance for young people. Cohesion must also be national. Perhaps Harjumaa has solidarity with Ida-Virumaa and a high wage with low-wage earners. Solidarity, which we are demonstrating between countries, must inevitably come from solidarity within the country. So the social cost of ambitious, pan-European national targets must not be for any Member State, or for any region, an increase in inequality. Of course, Estonia must not be left alone. The voice of Estonia must sound equal. We ourselves have the right to decide on our tax system or on the organisation of health care. It is in the interests of both the Estonian state and the Estonian people that we should be part of a green, digital and, of course, social Europe, so that we can have a say in making these decisions. I hope that all my fellow Members will be prepared to take part in and contribute to these discussions, in the light of the future conference, or in the context of the re-launching plan or the preparation of drafts relating to the use of the Structural Funds. So for the sake of strength and more social Estonia and Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U146	Thank you. All the political groups have been able to talk, and negotiations have been concluded... Yeah, but the Prime Minister still has a chance to finish. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U147	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for this very substantive debate and for raising these issues. A few more things I would like to stress. First of all, there was a lot of talk about values. I think it is important to note that the values on which the Republic of Estonia is built, such as the rule of law, democracy, and the principle of sovereignty, which has been repeatedly highlighted here, are values which the European Union shares and is supported by the Western world. For me, the clear question is that we need to be [together] with those countries that share the same values, and we need to make an effort to keep it that way. The important thing is that Estonia is at the heart of these decisions. If we set ourselves outside of it, we simply will not be counted. As they say, the hitchhiker will not be noticed, but the screamer will not be heard again. A few Leagues of Riigikogu brought here a comparison with Great Britain or Israel and talked about how it would be much better in terms of vaccines if we were not in the European Union. I don't think that comparison is quite adequate. In my opinion, a comparison with influenza vaccines, for example, for which there were no joint procurement by the European Union, would be more correct. If you remember, the flu vaccine ran out in October. In this respect, this is where we would be if there were no joint procurement. In this respect, there is a slight difference in weight. To those who said here, as if we had the choice to be separate from the European Union, and they said that the European Union is bad and alone would be better, I say that in reality, as history has shown, it is not better on its own. This is demonstrated by the welfare of our fellow humans. There are countries that are just as close to the big neighbor as we are. If we were alone, we would probably be just another frozen conflict. So you have to compare these things and still look in the big picture. For me, it is positive that the majority who spoke were clearly in favour of the European Union. I think that these issues that have emerged are issues that must be taken into account in all policies. The policy of the European Union is actually translated into all policies: on the one hand, Estonia's positions, which we are going to defend in Europe to ensure that Estonia's interests are fully represented, and, on the other hand, common interests, which we also take into account in Estonia's domestic affairs in order to be stronger together. Thank you again for this substantive debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-16_U148	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister and thank you very much to the Chair of the European Union Affairs Committee for his presentations. Thank you very much to all the questioners and negotiators. Today, we have discussed the policy of the European Union. The agenda for the sitting is exhausted and the session is closed. Thank you, everyone, and I'll see you tomorrow!
