ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1	Good fellows! The break taken by the manager is over. I'm sorry! The break taken by the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. We are on the third amendment. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U2	With a result of 52 votes against 1 and 1 abstention, the proposal was supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by Mr Ossinovski, the position of the commission being disregarded. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U3	Honourable Chairman! Please put this amendment to the vote, and before that, I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U4	Thank you. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U5	Thank you. Since Mr Ossinovski introduced it five times from this remote control and everyone said that it was a good amendment, I would ask you to vote and support it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U6	Thank you. We now have several proposals. One is that please vote, the other is that ten minutes of recess, and the third is that please support. So we can all think about it, break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U7	The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. We are on the fourth amendment. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by Mr Ossinovski. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U8	With the result of 12 votes against 48, 1 abstention, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the lead committee, to be fully taken into account. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U9	Honourable Chairman! On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I would like to vote on this amendment and also ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U10	Looks like there's no problem here. You're sure it's... Oh, yeah. Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U11	The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is over. I am voting on the fifth amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U12	With a result of 47 votes to 1, no abstentions, the proposal was supported. The sixth amendment, tabled by the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. We have almost examined the amendments, but before that, we have a little detour. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U13	Yeah, it's a little detour, really. I would also ask you to vote on this amendment and take a small break of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U14	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U15	Good fellows! The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U16	With the result of 49 votes against 1, no abstentions, the proposal was supported. Thank you, good fellows. We have examined the amendments. There is now another small proposal for the Board of the Riigikogu, but we will do it quickly, I think. Namely, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on atmospheric air protection and the State Fees Act 345 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let us move to preparing this vote. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. In the run-up to this vote, I would ask for a ten-minute break, because that requires consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U18	Thank you. If you say so. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U19	The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Protection of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Republic and the State Fees Act (345 SE). Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U20	With the result of 15 votes against 49 and 1 abstention, the proposal was not supported. The point is, the lead committee has proposed that the second reading of draft 345 be stopped. The second reading is closed and the third item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U21	We are going from here to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act Amending Act 380, initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Finance Committee, to serve as a rapporteur for the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance prepared this draft for a second reading, including on 31 May. Thomas Honourable and Lawyer of the Insurance Policy Department, Linda Tolumees, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in this discussion. Following a small discussion, the Commission decided by consensus to propose one amendment to the draft, in addition to proposing the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 15 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U23	Thank you. Looks like there's been a very substantive report, so we can... But some questions, they come out, they are. Let's get to the questions. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Erki! In fact, the Financial Supervision Authority is a very serious institution that actually deals with controlling people's financial problems and also with controlling companies. He's working to make sure those people who do some kind of financial operations don't get into a bad situation. In this case, when we are talking about this legislative amendment concerning the publication of an alert, this is a serious issue, because otherwise people may find themselves in an extremely difficult situation if they do not know who it is that offers them the opportunity to finance. My question is...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U25	Good questioner, that's it. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U26	... the question is: was there any mention of others in the Commission...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U27	Thank you. I'm asking the waitress to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U28	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U29	Got it. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U30	Thank you, good waitress. I read here that the amendment has only been tabled by the commission and that only one amendment has been tabled. It states that the inspection may, before issuing an alert, request the person who is the offender or who may be considered to be the offender on the basis of information known to the inspector, or any other person who is relevant for the purposes of issuing an alert. I have this question: did the Commission also have a debate on replacing the expression 'to another person' with 'to another person'? We also had this topic under discussion in the Committee on Culture when we proposed amendments, and the purpose of this discussion was that the language of good lawmaking could be a beautiful Estonian language. If we use the word 'others', I do not understand whether we are talking about the Committee on Monetary Affairs or the Committee on Rural Affairs. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Did you discuss this question in passing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U31	Thank you. No, we didn't discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U32	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The Financial Supervision Authority has been set up to supervise all kinds of financial entities. Over the years, we have seen how, in fact, their actions have been inadequate. The same alert that we are now dealing with here is a very positive thing in itself. But I am surprised that when I read this explanatory statement, it turns out that the Financial Supervision Authority itself and Eesti Pank do not have any comments on this. Was it discussed that the Financial Supervision Authority is absolutely passive about this whole thing, and why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U34	Thank you. The Financial Supervision Authority fully accepted the content of this draft and did not have any further proposals. Accepted what the Commission proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U35	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U36	Thank you. I'll pick up where Helle-Moonika Helme ended up, from the same "others." But I'm gonna ask you another question. This [list of amendments] states that the inspector may, before issuing an alert, make an inquiry into the essential facts of the alert either to the offender, [may] be kept on the basis of known information, or to any other person. I have a question: is this going to extend the jurisdiction of the Financial Supervision Authority to virtually everyone who operates in the first place, or is it going to remain within the competence of the Financial Supervision Authority to control [only] financial institutions? According to the current wording, the Financial Supervision Authority could begin to check my financial situation or your financial situation and start giving us precepts and warnings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U37	Thank you. No, that's not it. The jurisdiction of the Financial Supervision Authority will not be extended; it will remain exactly as it has been for all these last years. It is simply now that they will have the opportunity to publish these messages once again on their website.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U38	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll continue on the same wave. The wording of § 543 (2) is that the inspector may, before issuing an alert, consult the person who is the offender or who may be considered to be the offender on the basis of information known to the inspector, or any other person, of the facts relevant to the alert. Who are the other people that have been mentioned here? Give an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U40	Thank you. These are, for example, consumers of financial services, investors, any person who may be involved in the consumption of this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U41	Merry Aart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U42	Thank you. I'm gonna ask for more right here in the explanatory statement. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, who presented the opinion on the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic, took part in the meeting. I ask what their opinion on the bill was.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U43	Their opinion was that such a small amendment could be proposed so that they could ask for additional opinions from other parties in addition to the service on which they wanted to issue a warning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U44	Rene Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, By quoting living classics, it's nice to know that we're moving at a nice pace and everything's fine. But I wanted to ask you how it seems to you, a good waitress, whether the Financial Supervision Authority has done everything in its power recently so that there are as few investment frauds and scams as possible in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U46	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U47	Jack White.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We're not supposed to be in an ivory tower here on Toompea. We should still think about the whole of society and also about the weaker members of society. I'm going to ask you this, I'm going to ask you the whole grassroots level, I'm not going to do theories here. I have received loan offers offering loans ranging from EUR 3000 to EUR 1 million, and the interest rate is usually between 2 and 3%. It is recommended to contact you for more information on these loan offers. I can also read the number of this WhatsApp or e-mail. My question is this: will this amendment also help to keep people from such avanthy Christian offers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U49	Thank you. Yeah, of course! This allows once again to go to the Financial Supervision Authority's website and to check that there is no published warning on this particular bidder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U50	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U51	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, There is no control over small investment funds. Has there been a debate in the Commission on other issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U52	Thank you. The Commission has discussed a wide range of issues, but not within the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U53	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You're very close. And your inadequacy is, of course, borne by the desire to do everything we can to ensure that our extension of the sitting is as ineffective as possible. But we will still make it as difficult for you as possible, because it is up to you to explain to us here the details of this bill in detail. My question in this regard is as follows. Our financial world is becoming more and more complex today. It is not just about currencies, it is not just about banks, insurance companies and other financial services providers, but it is already made up of alternative settlement and financial instruments, such as bitcoins, and I do not know what other coins are there. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Will this bill and the alert extend to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U55	Thank you. This bill has nothing to do with the database that you sent as a draft bill to the confirmation ring.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U56	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U57	Thank you, manager. The explanatory memorandum to this draft states that an opinion has also been requested from the Estonian Cryptorah Association. After all, the crypto money company is the one who may be one of the first to receive a handful of warnings. Did the Crypto Money Alliance give its opinion, and what did it look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U58	Thank you. The Crypto Union did not give its opinion, so it agreed in silence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U59	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U60	Thank you very much. Good waitress! My ears have been heard that the Commission is developing this law... [[Trying to suppress the laughter.]] I'm sorry! ... engaged in the drafting of this law unjustly. There was no reason to develop it. Please reject this statement and tell us why the Commission has adopted and drafted a law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act. What was the motive and reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U61	Thank you. This initiative came from the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U62	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask for an alert on the time of public exposure, which is up to five years and may even be extended if necessary. If we assume that this is a mild infringement, which has been announced and is quickly corrected, is there no risk that the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority could have a vendetta effect on this institution? If the matter is corrected, but the message is still hanging up, it's a serious threat to business.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U64	Thank you. All people, including businesses, have the right to apply to the courts if they feel that their rights have been violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U65	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Erki! I believe that many people do not really understand the importance of making this alert public, because if they do not deal with financial matters themselves, it seems that it is somehow such a bureaucratic, trivial thing. But it's actually a very, very serious thing. It is still about people getting information about financial institutions that can deceive them. Does this alert in any way hinder money laundering?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U67	Thank you. Surely this report can have an impact on that too. And I would like to say that not only do people get this information, but also journalists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U68	Leo Kunnas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Erki! The effective functioning of the Financial Supervision Authority is essential for the prevention of money laundering. It is estimated that up to 200 billion euros of black money could pass through Estonian banks in money laundering scandals in the last decade. I do not know how to estimate the adequacy of this amount, but if we think of it as 1% of which is 2 billion and 0.1% is 200 million and 0.01% is 20 million, then 20 million is the amount that can already affect the Estonian political system. Have you been discussing in the Commission in this connection or in another context, or would it be necessary to discuss the possible impact of money laundering on our political system?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U70	Thank you. Not discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U71	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U72	Thank you. You said one very interesting thing, you stated it just a little while ago when you were asked about issuing alerts. You said that not only people get these alerts, but also journalists. The way you said it sounded like journalists weren't people, that people are people, and journalists are journalists, they're not people. However, my question is still about the amendment. The Commission proposed its amendment, yes, but the explanatory memorandum states that no amendments were tabled by the deadline of 19 May for the draft amendment. What kind of sense do you have in this regard? Why were these amendments not tabled? Doesn't this matter? Do you have any sense of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U73	Thank you. We did not analyse in the Commission why no further amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U74	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U75	Thank you very much. I'd come back... No, I'll ask you another question. But before I ask you a question, I want to congratulate the chairman and the waitress that it is late, but we are really at a good pace and very sharp pace. Recently, there was a story that the company that brokered the retirement money, OÜ Vabaks, used quite brutal justice terrorism, crime reports and custody. And now I'm reading in this bill that the Financial Supervision Authority will also have the opportunity to make warnings. Can't the Financial Supervision Authority make warnings now? Or is this law made to make sure that the next time we have such picnic cases, they have the opportunity to make a warning first, not to go kicking the door with the police? How do you comment OÜ Free in the light of the case, I'd say, a raging gentle south wind that can also deal with warnings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U76	Thank you. The Financial Supervision Authority has made these warnings for a very long time, but a Supreme Court ruling recently came into force, not a consensual one, which found that the law does not state clearly enough that the Financial Supervision Authority has such a warning right. The Financial Supervision Authority has all other rights, such as the right to address law enforcement authorities when they see an infringement. However, in the view of some of the judges of the state, this gentle right of warning to the public does not exist at the inspection and they asked for this point to be specified in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U77	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I am also glad that we have such a nice pace, and I thank the waitress, of course, for her very substantive and long answers. Thank you. But the question is this: can you open up what was the process of involving market participants when discussing this draft? Were they involved, and what requests did they make?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U79	Yeah, we got a lot of people involved. We asked the Government of the Republic, Eesti Pank, the Financial Supervision Authority, the Estonian Bar Association, the Estonian Private and Venture Capital Association, the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Cryptorah Association, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and FinanceEstonia and AS Nasdaq Tallinn for an opinion on this draft. The draft opinion was submitted by the Financial Supervision Authority, Eesti Pank and the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U80	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U81	Thank you. I'm really sorry, but I'm having a little bit of a hard time understanding the concepts. This law states that the inspector may, before issuing an alert, request the person who is the offender or who may be considered to be the offender on the basis of information known to the inspector for the purpose of issuing an alert. If I take off the explanatory memorandum, here I will not read this long sentence and these paragraphs in advance, so that the text should clearly indicate that the inspection may also request persons who are not considered to have committed an offence in relation to matters relevant to the issuing of an alert. What's that supposed to mean? It is a little difficult to understand that there is a lawbreaker and that there is no order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U82	Yeah, this is where it's meant to be, on the one hand, that they can make inquiries for those who think the inspection is breaking the law. But on the other hand, they can also ask for information from those who are completely unsuspecting investors or consumers and also collect information from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U83	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! As a legislator, we should see problems both from the point of view of the frog, which pushed my previous question, and from the point of view of the eagle, which pushes my current question. In fact, the financial sector has become extremely powerful and large in the last 30 years. My question is this: do you think that Karl Marx's theory of capital accumulation is currently doing the Renaissance, or should we, in future economic governance, be based on the theory of John Maynard Keynes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U85	Thank you. We didn't discuss Karl Marx's theory in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U86	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U87	Thank you. I read here that these warnings are published on the inspection website and include an assessment of the person's activities. I can't tell you, it doesn't explain whether it's a natural or a legal person. These alerts may also be published by other means. I believe that when trying to warn the Estonian public about financial fraudsters or the organisers of pyramid schemes, the inspection website is certainly not the place that people read. I can't imagine some lonely people may just count. It is very important that our public receives this information and does not fall for all kinds of criminals. Why should it not be that this information is also published through other channels? What kind of channels could these be, or are they?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U88	The Financial Supervision Authority has the right to use all channels, and that is exactly what the law says.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U89	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U90	Good manager! Let's go, yeah, at a nice pace right now. The nightingale sings outside, and we've come to the bottom of it. No kidding. I think it's a good bill. But my question to you [is] related to the fact that this bill is based on respected people, perhaps not as respected as Kosta Kantchev, or the star Tiiu Järviste, whose nickname is the White Polar Bear or the Bunny. Did you also discuss in the committee the actions of the respected people on the basis of which this bill was born, because they will speak to colleagues... just sued them and the judicial authorities gave them the right, and then the Financial Inspectorate came to this Riigikogu... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U91	Good questioner, your time, please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U92	Open up some background. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U93	Thank you. I agree with you, it's a good bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U94	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I gotta tell you, what's on your mind, the tongue? I didn't say a word about bill 366, for some reason you had some associations of your own. I asked something else, and I didn't get an answer to that question. In particular, I asked whether the issuing of alerts would extend to alternative financial services companies, natural persons, etc. and would include alternative currencies such as bitcoin. I think it is quite important to find out whether this bill covers these things or not, because, as we just found out yesterday, a country has even declared bitcoin its national currency, and so there are certainly questions about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U96	Thank you. This is undoubtedly a very important issue and, in the case of such long questions, the core of the question may sometimes be lost. Indeed, the publication of alerts concerns all kinds of alternative financial services that are not directly subject to supervision by the Financial Supervision Authority. However, in order to keep the highly regulated financial market under control, the Financial Supervision Authority has the power to see that everyone functions correctly for both consumers and investors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U97	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U98	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I don't know what the pace here is and how it's going. I hear from my colleagues that this is all good and perfect. But I have the same question I asked the Head of the Financial Supervision Authority when he came here last week to report. This is clearly out of the context of this draft, because it talks about the publication of an alert, which is certainly also important. But my question, I don't know if it was dealt with, is that what other subjects you were dealing with. And I think it is [important] this aspect of which I asked the Head of the Financial Supervision Authority that if we look at Estonia moving in a direction where the Danes have decided that there was no problem there, only the Estonian branch of Danske Bank had problems. We no longer have one bank manager, physically or actually. In Swedbank, everyone who is Estonian has been declared unfit. What aspects did you address there? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U99	Thank you. These are undoubtedly very important questions that you raised, Priit, but we did not discuss them in the context of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U100	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U101	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am also actually glad that we are doing so smoothly and at a speedy pace, because maybe this is how we reach the Socialist OTRK, which deals with inequality in Estonia and poverty reduction. If we move forward at this rate, it is in itself likely. But now, good waitress, I'm touching the same bill 380. Paragraph 543 (2) states: "The inspector may, before issuing an alert, make an alert on the facts relevant to the issuing of an alert... "Here's the word "important circumstances." My question is whether there is an exhaustive list of these important facts anywhere so that the recipient of the alert, who may be the offender or, as you said, the unsuspecting person, can check whether it is the right, the legal warning or the right to challenge it. Is there a list anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U102	Thank you. No, there's no such list in the law. This is the discretion of the Financial Supervision Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U103	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U104	Thank you, manager. Reading bill 380, I see it is similar to bill 366. All the time, the thinner things come out, the holes come out. You see, the problem is, if Danske Bank had done its looting brutally, then after that, small companies, ordinary people started to snatch. I've filled out countless forms myself. When a big robber steals everything, they give a shit about ordinary people. And now maybe it's overreacting, we're all being sacked and bullied. [Section 543] of the draft law states that if the facts presented are not justified, the inspectorate must make a similar statement. But who's gonna make up for the damage if the bank's broke, it's all in the bottom? They only publish a three-way ad. Who's gonna make up for the damage?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U105	Thank you. As I said before, if someone's rights have been violated, he has the right to appeal to the courts. There will be fair benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U106	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, I still have a strong concern about the length of time this alert is available. You're the one who suggested we go to the court. The courts are long and costly, and at the same time the company is "shammed." Please tell me, are there any other forms of communication with the Financial Supervision Authority? Is it possible to contact the Financial Supervision Authority with, for example, an application or a request for removal of a notice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U108	Definitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U109	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Does the alert provide an opportunity to reach information on investment funds also for people who do not have financial education?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U111	Thank you. The purpose of these reports is to reach people who do not have financial education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U112	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I read here that if the circumstances set out in the alert do not prove to be justified subsequently or the circumstances on which the alert was issued have ceased to exist, the inspection shall be required to publish a notification in the same form. But what if from the beginning they were on the wrong track and it was all wrong? So what happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U114	Thank you. I have already said this before that, if someone's rights are unjustly violated, he will always have the right to appeal to a court that understands justice and justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U115	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I have such a practical question. I take it this bill is necessary. But I wonder if this change will affect the interested parties on the financial market in any way. Does this make them more expensive and do we suddenly encourage the development of the black market through state control measures, for example by pushing players into action on the black market?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U117	Thank you. The aim of this draft is still to simplify the activities of companies that operate legally and to make illegal activities more difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U118	Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U119	Thank you, Mr President. It's such a bad situation that there are no more printouts of Bill 380 in the box behind me. Maybe there's some way to organize them here because there are important questions here and I'd like to take a closer look. I have remembered from my previous acquaintance that there were, in my opinion, quite serious constitutional contradictions, and I will certainly get to them with my questions. But in order not to be wrong, I'd like to get a paper printout.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U120	Thank you. It'll be delivered to you shortly. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Paragraph 543 (6) states: "Warning may, for compelling reasons, not disclose the personal data of natural persons involved in an activity where disclosure would be disproportionate to the persons concerned or otherwise unnecessary in the circumstances. " First, I want to know what these compelling reasons are, and second, what this disproportion may be. disproportionate to what? What are the circumstances with which this disproportion is compared?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U122	Thank you. This is the decision-making power of the Financial Supervision Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U123	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U124	Good manager! Good waitress! I went through the protocols. The draft was initiated on 22 April and a meeting was held on 3 May. [In the minutes of this sitting] I read that matters were discussed at the previous sitting and that only procedural decisions are taken today. But there is no record of an earlier sitting on the Riigikogu's website. Where is it? Why is it hidden? Or can't I see it because it's written with milk? Where is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U125	Thank you. A few weeks ago, we discussed a draft law on the Financial Supervision Authority with a different number, and this question arose during the debate on this draft. The Commission decided to initiate a separate draft for this amendment rather than to add it to that second draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U126	Kert Kingo, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U127	Thank you. I would like to point out that the Commission rapporteur has so far been extremely superficial in his replies, and most of the answers have been that we did not discuss this in the Commission. But I have a serious question right now, because we need to decide on the adoption of this bill. If we do not get answers to the questions that are important to us, then it would seem that the Commission has not dealt with this well enough or that the rapporteur is not well-informed enough. So, what are we gonna do with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U128	Thank you. It should also be started by waiting for the second reading of this draft to be either interrupted or terminated. It is certainly very interesting to listen to what the members of the Riigikogu think in the negotiations. They give their input and it may happen that we are at the third reading at one point, and then we have to decide. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U129	Thank you, manager. As I have just heard, there is no protocol. There was another draft that was discussed, and then it was decided to make a new draft No 380. However, in my opinion, it is procedurally the case that, when we are presented with a draft, in this case, there is no protocol on the substance of the matter, instead of referring to another draft, I do not think that such a draft should go any further. What is the opinion of the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U130	Thank you. This will certainly be shaped by the lead committee, and the chairman of the committee has also given an answer to this. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U131	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that there is a very significant deficit in the draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which is currently presented here in this paper. Yes, indeed, we are dealing here with § 543 "Publication of Warning Notices." However, the seventh paragraph states: "The Inspectorate may also publish warning notices from the authorities referred to in subsection 46 (2) of this Act, foreign financial supervisory authorities or international organisations. " It is very regrettable to note that these materials do not reflect absolutely the fact by which § 46 (2) is furnished. So let's just say that right now there is a situation where we don't have an overview of what it says, and as I understand it, Erki Savisaar doesn't want to tell us much either. Is it possible to make a small break so that we can add additional material to its section 46 (2)? I do not consider it reasonable that the members of the Riigikogu themselves are searching for computers behind the material. All this material should actually be here between our fingers so that we can objectively decide all the facts. Unfortunately, there is a situation now that we are dealing very seriously with an important matter such as the Financial Supervision Authority law supplementing the law, but the material is incomplete. Mr President, this is not a bully at all, but I think that the current working arrangements are below all records. I don't know if you're saying it's right, I'm gonna have to accept it, but it's not really a good practice. And the practice is also not good in that we actually need to be clear about these things. We make the final decision, we have to be clear. We can't write some numbers somewhere, and then we'll have to start looking somewhere in the basement of the Riigikogu for ourselves where we can get a few things again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U132	Thank you. I have no information about the laws on the shelf somewhere in the basement of the Riigikogu. But I agree that we make these decisions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U133	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I do not question the ideas and proposals of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on what you have reached. I'm sure it's important. But I would like to come back to what I asked you about earlier, and on which you said you would agree that my questions were relevant. But you did not discuss them, but you said that they were not the subject of this draft. For me, however, the real question is that when we talk about the amendment of the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the role of supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority, Estonia may become a country where problems are, as if, only in Estonia. If we look at banks, some countries have come to the conclusion that they do not have problems, but where their branches are, there have been problems. Is and how much was the Committee on Monetary Affairs able to discuss these issues? This, in my opinion, is far more important than how many notices we publish or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U134	Thank you. We discussed these issues at the meeting with the Financial Supervision Authority and did so last time they presented their annual report.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U135	Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U136	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very grateful to you for the almost additional answer you gave to my question. You said that these materials could not be retrieved from somewhere in the basement of the Riigikogu, and I agree with that. You also said that we really, yes, are making important decisions. But what is your opinion or assessment that these materials are incomplete and are not mentioned in these materials, which is the result of the rule contained in subsection 46 (2). How do I know that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U137	Thank you. You'll know that when you look into that law. There is no obligation that laws must go hand in hand with the bill. Leo Kunnas, please! A microphone for Leo Kunnas, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Erki! I will continue to ask about money laundering. Our most powerful military ally, the United States, its public and private institutions, has an immeasurable capacity to prevent financial crimes, including money laundering. When the previous government signed an agreement with Freeh's law firm so that the United States could help us in this matter in the form of this one institutional player, there were very strong doubts that they did not really have this capacity. Did you, in the Commission, in principle, discuss this issue of how the more capable of us could help us with the problems we have, and did it happen somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U139	Thank you. No, we didn't discuss it in the framework of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U140	Thank you. Dear Member of the Riigikogu Kalle Grünthal! It's quite good of you where we've come to, you have a choice, either to ask the waitress or to ask a procedural question. As you can see, you're the first in both orders. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U141	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. I really like that you're marking my skill. I believe that this is really a rare occasion for a procedural and then a common issue to be put in line like this. The procedural question I have is [such]. For me, it still doesn't make any sense that sometimes, in fact, we often and practically all the time bring in material that is thickly covered, but now there's this kind of paper that looks like a vaccination call, where there's no explanatory circumstance. Is it now going to be in practice that these materials are not disclosed or unwritten?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U142	Thank you. In the case of Bill 380, we are in no way derogating from our usual practice. Kalle Grünthal, please, your question to the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. The second paragraph of § 543 of the Financial Supervision Authority [to be included in the Act] states that the inspection may, before issuing an alert, request the person who is the offender or who may be considered to be the offender on the basis of information known to the Authority. The fourth paragraph informs us that if the circumstances set out in the alert are not subsequently justified or the circumstances on which the alert was issued have ceased to exist, the inspection shall be required to publish a notification in the same form. Dear waitress, what has actually been overlooked here is that we are now condemning a person by publishing this message, but it is prohibited under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U144	Thank you. No, the Financial Inspectorate doesn't convict anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U145	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The commission discussed the draft in preparation for its second reading at its meeting on 31 May. Did the Members of the Commission raise any criticism or questions about this draft at this meeting on 31 May? I am referring to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U147	Thank you. No.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U148	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I don't know if you're having trouble understanding, or if it's because of being up long-term, but maybe also because of the reason you were supposed to have in the bag you promised to take to the hearing to keep yourself awake. What I'm saying is, try to understand now that you're setting up the alert at one point and taking down the alert at the other, because the circumstances underlying the alert turned out to be wrong, are, in fact, a constitutional offense, because you're basically blaming the person, and at one point, when these things fall away, you're saying that ah, sorry, it wasn't the fault. How is such an approach possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U150	Yeah, well, why don't you think about it even if you make statements on your Facebook page, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U151	Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. There's no way we can be satisfied with the waitress's answers. Kalle Grünthal's question was very well founded: is this alert incriminating? We didn't get an answer to that. That is a very important question: is he arsonative? Can it lead to legal proceedings? Could this be the basis for the initiation of proceedings before the prosecutor's office? Has this been mentioned in the Commission? Is the Commission's position on this alert precisely such that it is incriminating? I ask for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U153	Thank you, Mart Helme! I'm not in a position to pass on your procedural question to the 380 waitress at the moment, because of our rules of procedure, but I'm sure he heard it. The Commission can discuss this issue again if it so wishes. Kalle Grünthal, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U154	I don't have a procedural question, I'm protesting. Those are two different things. And here I am now asking for the assistance of the President of the sitting, because if we have reasonable circumstances that we want to know during this draft procedure, it is not possible that the draft rapporteur will essentially fail to answer this question. I ask for your help to oblige the rapporteur to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U155	Thank you. I believe that all of us can ask better, answer better, and we will. I will not interfere with the content of questions or answers. But now you have another procedural question. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Please tell me if you are not interfering with the fact that the question is essentially left unanswered, but you are saying that you cannot do anything here, but at the same time you are beginning to limit the speeches made by the members of the Riigikogu, saying that their content does not correspond to reality, tell me where the logic of your approach is, if we are to protest and that you should resolve it, because it is still a violation of the rules of procedure. This is not just a chat room, we want information from the Commission waitress. If the answers are basically 'Yes', 'No' and 'Maybe', do you really think it will give a positive colour to the draft? Perhaps [it] will even damage all legislation. As I have already pointed out, there is also a constitutional breach here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U157	Thank you. We're only halfway through processing this bill. Good waitress, thank you! No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Riho Breiveli, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the law relating to the publication of an alert is only one small part of this large process. I would like to say that this amendment will not solve the problem of the Financial Supervision Authority that actually exists in its work on this issue. Indeed, when we look at investment funds and management companies, we can say that investment funds are divided into small investment funds and large investment funds. Small investment funds roll less than EUR 100 million and are registered under simplified procedures. They submit an application and they are registered in an inspection in such a way that EUR 200 is paid and it is practically impossible for the inspection to verify who is actually the manager of the fund, what its previous relationship is with all this business or investment activity. This means that here we can register different investment fund managers from all over the world. And that also means that they can sell their services if the amount of the service does not exceed EUR 2,5 million. This means that then there is no need to disclose anything, everything goes on the basis of such simplified ads, and it is possible to deceive small investors who want to invest their money. This situation is particularly problematic now that we have the second pillar fund. People get free money, especially people who don't really share much of the funding themselves. They can be fooled very easily. Some of these investment fund managers just call and say I'm offering you a huge product of productivity. There's no way this person can control who he's dealing with. Great, through the publication of this alert, he may receive a notification if our Financial Supervision Authority has detailed information about this management company: what he is and what his previous activities are. But if he is the manager of a small fund that does not have a turnover of more than EUR 100 million, there is no way for our Financial Supervision Authority to know who it is. In order to solve this problem, we need to make a proper legislative amendment, not just come out with such a little one-leaf paper and try to solve it. This is not the solution to the problem that we actually have in the Financial Supervision Authority in relation to this issue. I am not going to talk here about money laundering or other problems, there are many and many more. In my opinion, the Financial Supervision Authority itself is also interested in... I'd like a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U159	Please! How much? Two? Here's what we're gonna do. Please, two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U160	The Financial Supervision Authority is also interested in these matters. If these things don't work out, our people will be hit. And not just us. Exactly the same service can be used by investors around the world who are therefore very easy to deceive. So one side is this paper, whether it's done so well or not, that's not what I'm talking about. Of course, it could always be better, but we have to go to the full bank to protect our people and protect people around the world from the possibility of being deceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U161	Thank you. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U162	A few words from the Financial Supervision Authority. When I was a minister, I was a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, even the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and I have to say that the work of this institution is, in my opinion, very good and very impressive. I think that our Financial Supervision Authority or any financial supervision in Estonia is in itself reasonably organised and the effectiveness of its financial supervision is also reasonably organised. I am concerned, however, that we are constantly seeking to expand the supervisory powers of the Financial Supervision Authority and to push new services and subjects under it by means of various legislative initiatives. The same example that I gave here in the course of questions as to how the Financial Supervision Authority presented a crime report about an institution or company, where it was quite unclear whether it was actually subject to supervision by the [Financial Supervision Authority] or not, in my opinion, this is a very bad precedent. Doing things in this way should not be possible in a proper rule of law. The second issue I came across when I was in the Ministry of Finance is the desire to give all cryptotematics to the Financial Supervision Authority in connection with the ever-increasing increase in the use of crypto money. Well, it's quite clear that there's a future business in the cryptobin, and it's quite clear that it gives a very wide range of opportunities for black business. The way money launderers use cryptos, the way drug trafficking, assassins, illegal arms trafficking and human trafficking [cryptos] are a fact. By this day, virtually no country has yet devised a viable solution to combat it. We, the Republic of Estonia, have the smallest Financial Supervision Authority in all, both in terms of the number of employees and administrative rigidity. If there are still other things that are not really appropriate to the structure of the Financial Supervision Authority, I fear that we are at risk of the inspection being unable to cope with the rest of its tasks. We all know that the Financial Supervision Authority is one of the institutions involved in the fight against money laundering in Estonia. However, their main task is to ensure financial stability, which means that they have the task of checking that banks, insurance companies, money intermediaries do not jeopardise financial stability, or that there is no moment in which some very large financial institutions may be in default. This creates market instability, such as bank runs, and people can lose their money on a massive scale. We do not really notice or acknowledge this work, but it is a very large job. And, of course, what we also have very little idea of is that, more and more broadly, financial regulation has also exploded over the last ten years. Of course! Where does all the bad come from? The European Union. This financial regulation, thousands and thousands of pages, is basically directives or, more importantly, regulation levels. If you don't mind, I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U163	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U164	So its transposition into Estonian legislation in such a way that we do not do Russian stupidity with German precision is quite a challenge and its implementation in such a way that we do not kill entrepreneurship in Estonia is just as much a challenge. This same crypto-money management, even though everyone understands that black money, criminal money, is moving among crypto-money, everyone understands just as much that it is a highly innovative area and that it will have great potential in the future. The approach that we will just, just in case, kill the entire business in this area or kill all the companies that do crypto money, so that then we may not have a problem, no it is not realistic. It's just not realistic. A sensible solution must be found here. But I'll come back to this bill. When I asked here whether the inspection competence and supervisory tasks would be extended, the rapporteur said no. I'm sorry I ran out of questions. In fact, the explanatory memorandum clearly states that yes, this draft extends the competence of the Financial Supervision Authority and extends its supervision. In my opinion, we should still be very, very careful about this, because the cry of trouble that has come from the large table of foreign transfers from Estonian entrepreneurs is deafening. Without any distinction, in principle at the request of the regulator, Estonian banks simply started throwing out their customers who had been operating for decades, who had been operating traditional business models, export and import companies, intermediary companies, companies whose headquarters were in Estonia, but whose business activities took place mainly outside Estonia. Everyone was hit with a wide table, booked, and called the fight against money laundering. Well, such an unintelligent approach to preventing regulatory abuse should not be allowed because it literally damages our economic environment, harms our businesses and reduces our wealth, nor because it is said that we are no longer doing business with you when we look at the ceiling and the rule of law. And this is still due to the fact that in Estonia both the regulator and the subjects of supervision have decided to rewind the thinking apparatus to the smallest possible volume and to make the repressive apparatus as loud as possible. I shouldn't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U165	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U166	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm also glad we're moving at a nice pace. On the fourth item, there are 12 remaining items. But a little background, it's a very fun story. On 24 April, two cases were brought to the proceedings in the Riigikogu. One was what we are discussing at night, and the other was our group's proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to clarify the legality of political operations. I don't know where he is right now, probably in the bottom of a drawer and dust on it. So a certain sort of selective thing. But that's it. The main characters of this sexy story, I name some names, are Kosta Kantchev from Malta and Tiiu Järviste, Estonian millionaire, enterprising lady. The story itself is very simple. The Financial Supervision Authority has published some announcements on its website in Estonian and English, it was a few years ago, and warned that some companies, one of them Nexo, and the other one is GFC Good Finance, are dealing with things that can be dangerous for people with money. Three companies actually went to court to protect their rights. First of all, I can talk more about Nexo's company. They successfully passed all the courts. It is not going to say when and where, but the Financial Inspectorate was beaten up in the county, administrative and Supreme Court. They said he wasn't right to publish any such messages. As I said, there were three companies and two of them were linked to the citizens I mentioned earlier. So, what's left? What was left was that the Financial Inspectorate ran into the Riigikogu on Erki's chest and the bill was born, which in itself should be useful in the broadest sense. By the way, this same Tiiu Järviste is a very colorful lady. He's been on a popular song show, but he's also been tried with his associates Andrii and Aleksei on charges of massive money laundering. Three million, 2.8 million, sorry! I don't know how far these things are now, but they're probably coming along. From the Financial Supervision Authority, Kilvar Kessler, who recently visited us to give an overview, has talked about how the turnover and market share of this last company has exploded: from 0.01% to 53% in a few years. That's where the interest came from. Briefly, the point of this draft is that since the Financial Supervision Authority was beaten up three times sadly by the courts, they said that they had no right, then they came to Erk's chest. True, not all members of the Supreme Court thought so. There was a judge of state who had the same name as our dear colleague, Viive Ligi. His disagreement was this: "I do not agree with the majority of the compositions that according to the current law, the Financial Supervision Authority (FI) does not have a legal basis for issuing an alert. In my opinion, there is a legal basis and, given that the district court found the substance of the alert in other respects, there were no grounds for satisfying the complaint. " So what do I say about this? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm not here... How about a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U167	Yeah. How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U168	Three.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U169	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U170	It's not my place to decide here, first, Nexo, dealt with crypto money, I forgot to say, how professionally the employees of the Financial Supervision Authority Kilvar Kessler are operating and what they are doing, but the problem is clearly there. And I think it's reasonable to warn you when there are doubts. The second question is how fairly those who carry out financial supervision behave with companies that offer different services. But the background is, yes, very understandable and clear, and in the social media, it could be great stories. The things of the Financial Supervision Authority are not as boring as the head of the inspection, who is going to take pictures of birds in Viimsi in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U171	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U172	Three more minutes, please. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are dealing with Bill 380 and this is a second reading. As a reminder, the draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act was initiated by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on 21 April. The content of this draft is to extend the basis for publication of information relating to public financial supervision and to establish a legal basis for the publication of alerts in the Financial Supervision Authority Act. The draft will enable the Financial Supervision Authority to publish alerts and to alert the public about non-compliant activities and the respective suspicions in the field of financial supervision. What do I say to this bill? As was previously the case here during the procedure for this draft, when the rapporteur answered the questions, there was a very serious failure. This was the case both by the draft rapporteur and by the commission, the Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs, which gave the full impression that the Commission has not taken its tasks absolutely seriously. At the same time, I am also forced to make criticism of Jüri Ratas, the chairman of the board of our honourable Riigikogu, because when I tried to understand why there is no Financial Supervision Act here, so that we can understand what the seventh paragraph of this [draft] means, according to which the inspection "may also publish warning notices from the authorities referred to in subsection 46 (2) of this Act, foreign financial supervisory authorities or international organisations," I did not receive an answer. I understand, of course, that I had such sensitive information that the esteemed Jüri Ratas was at home in the meantime. I'm sure he must have eaten up and walked in between the pillows and enjoyed other benefits at home, but that's the kind of thing that should be done when the work is done. And he kind of didn't want the criticism that the materials were incomplete, to embrace. I, here at the moment, would absolutely not reproach our officials, because officials do what they are told, and who are still running the Riigikogu if not the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu. As far as the substance of this matter is concerned, I have also brought to the honourable rapporteur, Erki Savisaar, a reference here that this draft is actually in a sense contrary to the Constitution, because there is a constitutional violation here, that is, a person will be abducted before there are any legal grounds or decisions to do so, according to which we can recognise that this person is an offender. I would just like to stress the second paragraph of [the paragraph to be added] according to which the inspection "may, before issuing an alert, request the person who is the offender or who, on the basis of information known to the Inspectorate, may be considered to have committed the offence or to another person'. Here's the barricade, the fact that "who, according to information known to the Inspectorate, may be considered to be an outlaw." Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U173	Yes, it can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U174	I would like to give an example of Marti Kuusik's case in connection with the deficiency of this matter. We all know exactly what happened right here in this Chamber and before that, the arson of Marti Kuusik, that he had committed a crime. He was quite seriously beaten, his life was basically ruined, his family was traumatized. Now we know that he is, however, acquitted in the Court of First Instance, and I say that we must, at this moment, respect this judgment with absolute respect, because there is no data to the contrary. There is absolutely the same analogy in this same law on supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act. We put on one stick both the offender and the person who, on the basis of information known to the inspection, may be considered to be the offender. That is such a serious legal failure, because what happens if the information known to the inspection is incomplete. What if this information isn't true, but we hang an alert and the person stays on the mark for life? This is, in my opinion, a serious violation of the Constitution. In fact, the existence of this possibility is confirmed by the fourth paragraph of the same draft law, which acknowledges that the circumstances set out in the alert may not prove to be justified at a later stage. You see, we can't say that about what a person does, that we put up, see what happens afterwards. Such tendencies in our legal space are absolutely unacceptable. I want you to understand that it is unacceptable that we are starting to hang alerts on people from some suspicious information, that now maybe it's done something. I say'maybe' because this information known to the inspection might not be true. Of course, it is also a very serious matter here that an alert may be publicly available for up to five years. But, as they say, the devil lies in the details, and I think the reason why the Financial Supervision Authority law was not wanted to be comprehensive is that the seventh paragraph actually states that the inspection may also publish warnings from foreign financial supervisory authorities or international organisations. So, let's say, on the basis of a false accusation, false accusation, this information can also reach a foreign country. Is this the kind of Estonia we wanted?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U175	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U176	Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U177	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U178	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The name of the Financial Supervision Authority probably raises the hair of a large number of Estonian people, because it is undoubtedly linked to money laundering and other financial scandals, not as a guilty party, but as a party whose duty is to exercise financial supervision over financial subjects, i.e. credit institutions, banks and other institutions, but whose activities are obviously not of a high or adequate level. Financial scandals have carried Estonia throughout the period after our independence. After all, we remember very well the rouble scandal, where by selling Russian rouble to Chechens, the Republic of Estonia received dollars in exchange and in the course of which many men were enriched and acquired millionaire status. We remember perfectly well the 10 million dollar affair. Although its chief culprit, Siim Kallas, claims that he was acquitted, there was actually no acquittal. This matter was suppressed because of a lack of public interest, but it is absolutely not true. The public interest has persisted to this day. This was followed by the VEB Fund scandal, which broke out in 1994, where the frozen money of Estonian companies in Russia from the VEB Fund migrated very mysterious ways into the pocket of certain people, and the investigation has shown that this money, or at least most of it, arrived here in Estonia. The same 10 million dollar hero Siim Kallas, who was then chairman of Eesti Pank, was involved in this case. There were various signatures, forgeries of documents. This was investigated. It is also claimed that the name of the person who brought the money and where it went. But this information is classified and the results of the Riigikogu's VEB Foundation investigation committee were not made public. Moscow has not done that so far either. What can we conclude from this? All those involved are allegedly linked to our leading party or often to the leading party and also to the party in the lead today. If we look through history at decisions that have been made and that are quite clearly damaging to Estonia's interests and statehood, then conspiracy theorists can see a perfectly clear link here. Moscow knows who these people are. Moscow can also force them to make certain decisions. In 2009 various articles were published in our press about how Russian money, billions, is washed through Estonia. Estonia did not react. About the same time, a Russian central banker came here from Moscow to get information, to ask for help, to be prevented. He went back to Russia and was murdered. About the same time, Magnitsky was murdered in Russia, exposing huge money laundering and robbery. He was imprisoned and basically tortured to death. Very many countries, especially the United States, all persons on the Magnitski list declared persona non grata, and were subject to various sanctions. Estonia did not do this. It was only in 2016 that this list was legalised under pressure from the Foreign Affairs Committee, of which I was a member, and the Riigikogu decided to ban these persons from entering the country. But Andres Anvelt, the then Minister of the Interior of the Social Democrats, made it possible for these persons to go on walking freely in Estonia. When we raised the question in the Riigikogu, he pointed his finger at foreign minister Sven Mikser, as if it had not taken the initiative. This ban was finally imposed only after Skripali was poisoned and murdered in London. Why they didn't want to do it sooner is incomprehensible. But, of course, in all this context and all this time, Danske and Swedbank money laundering went through Estonia with about 200 billion dollars of black money. The Financial Supervision Authority remained silent, the Money Laundering Data Bureau remained silent, the kapo remained silent, the Foreign Intelligence Service remained silent, the prosecutor's office remained silent. And the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, was also silent, who was actually the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority. He never even bothered to attend meetings there. And the most intrusive in 2014 on the proposal of the Minister of the Interior, Anvelt, the Riigikogu adopted a decision that turned a number of criminal offences related to money laundering into simply misdemeanours. Supposedly, the preparation of this draft began already at the time of the honourable Deputy Speaker Hanno Pevkur, who was then Minister of the Interior, sitting behind me. As we can see, the scandal, the money laundering, the massive violation of the law and crime have been through our whole period of independence. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And nothing has been done, there is no result.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U179	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U180	The Financial Supervision Authority has been a round zero. Unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U181	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U182	Thank you very much, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a lot of exciting words about this bill here today, and you can wonder whether you can support this amendment or not. You can't be sure of what? It cannot be certain that this bill will improve the situation. We have been given many examples of how Estonia has been turned into a terrible ghost in recent years, and money laundering is taking place here. This isn't a joke. Indeed, money laundering was here in scale. Does this law help to change the situation? I seriously doubt it. But, of course, when I asked the waitress in advance, I mean Erki Savisaar, that what has actually made this draft necessary, my good colleague Erki replied that the Supreme Court's decision made it. Of course, I then took the decision of the Supreme Court and analysed how this led to and what was finally said there and how it could help our society and our economy. And what did I find? I saw that, indeed, including on 28 January, the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court made a decision of 3-19-885, which dealt with the [same subject] in the bill 380. The story was about how the Financial Supervision Authority put up a notice about a company and this company, of course, wanted to take it down. As the Financial Supervision Authority did not do so, the company sued the Financial Supervision Authority, but the Financial Supervision Authority lost at all levels of justice. And then what did he do? Of course the Committee on Monetary Affairs came here to help us out, Erki. Well, Erki's helping, of course, he's trying to help. He took as a basis the same set of problems presented by the Financial Supervision Authority and what the Supreme Court said or at least seemed to say. I am now referring to the fact that the Supreme Court referred to or made a recommendation in its judgment that it understands the need to inform the Estonian public and consumers of the justified threat as early as possible, even before the end of the supervisory procedure, it is very important to prevent and eliminate the threat. Therefore, the Supreme Court also drew the legislator's attention to the need to establish a legal basis for issuing alerts. Perhaps the question is whether or not this legal basis exists. And now, oh, holy wonder, when we look at the opinions of the judges of state, it turns out that maybe this legal basis is entirely there and maybe a ghost has climbed out of a dark room and there is no ghost. Indeed, my good colleague, Peeter Ernits, here, referred to the opinion of the judge of state, which is of a completely different nature and the justification of which suggests that draft 380 is not really necessary. It's a matter of interpretation. He read out the dissenting opinion of Judge Viive Ligi, which states that I repeat a little bit of Peeter, apologies that the opinion of this composition cannot be accepted for a number of reasons. Let me stress a few things. First of all, it must be assumed that in this case the Financial Supervision Authority has confirmed that no financial supervision of the complainants was carried out and that the publication of warnings was therefore not prohibited at all under Section 54 of the Financial Supervision Authority Act. It's a matter of interpretation. The activities of the Financial Supervision Authority are not limited to financial supervision, which is confirmed, inter alia, by § 58 of the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which governs the liability of the Financial Supervision Authority, depending on... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U183	Three, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U184	... depending on whether the damage has been caused in or outside the financial supervision. If the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority were to be limited to financial supervision, there would be no need for such a liability regulation, as possible private transactions would already be in the area of private law protection. The multifaceted nature of the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority must be explicitly stated when comparing the concept of financial supervision, as set out in § 2 (1) of the Financial Supervision Authority Act, and the functions of the Financial Supervision Authority, as set out in § 6 (1) of the same Act. The supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority shall be exercised in relation to the specific activities of a particular subject. Dear friends, all in all, we have the same problem that has always been in our society: there are two lawyers, there are three parties. But our task here is to sum up these ends and contribute to the lack of regulation, not to pluralism. That's what we're really expected of. And that is why I call on you: ladies and gentlemen, let us not rush, let us keep this animal on a shorter chain, as the classic says, and let us not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U185	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U186	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the Financial Supervision Authority Act is open and I can see that only minor changes are made to this law, which do not directly affect or change anything. At the same time, the activity of fast-lending companies has been a serious problem in our country for years. I have not seen any of the draft laws dealing with the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority and its field of activity, so that it is caught or desired to take control of the activities of fast-lending companies and to bring them under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. I'd like to talk to you about these fast-borrowers. I remember the time when fast-borrowing companies came to the Estonian market. At the time, I worked as a detective in the economic police, and that meant that our desks had drowned in rogue statements. However, it took a while for us to qualify them as fraud, because this was the first scheme that the police could not shape a position for the time being. Here's the diagram. The police were approached by victims who had discovered that a quick loan had been taken unexpectedly on their behalf, and they learned of it by the way that they came to the mailbox. The witnesses in these criminal cases were going to be quick-borrowing companies. Somewhere in that chain were criminals, the ones who actually took that money. What was the main problem with this scheme from the perspective of the criminal police? The main problem was that persons were freely granted loans without any control, without any risk analysis. Originally, it took the form that not even an identity card was needed, only an SMS message came in, you sent a bank account number, you didn't even ask for a personal identification number, and the money was received into the account that the number was sent. The person didn't know that. It was all set up nicely for criminals. I remember that we fought very hard in the police to control the activities of the fast-lending companies, to regulate it a little bit, to meet the basic requirements and to be able to identify who this loan is being issued to. Of course, it was our wish that fast-borrowing companies, the loans issued, were of different sizes, could be treated as credit institutions. But there was a great deal of opposition to it, and it seems that it still exists. What was the other serious problem? Witnesses, or fast-borrowing companies themselves. Witnesses could be members of the board of the fast - loan company. However, the proceedings revealed that most of them, in dozens of high-speed credit companies that were very active on the market, were not members of the board of directors. Their board members were random people who were in fact only named as board members there, and that is why the criminal case did not reach the right people. Those people who were really behind all this brazenly and peacefully enriched. They were enriched at the expense of our own people, deliberately enriched at the expense of crime, for it was purely for its own good. I stress the contact it has with the Financial Supervision Authority. It is precisely this exposure that all this could happen only because no authority was monitoring them. The following problem, which emerged, was that the interest rates that the fast-borrowers had were so high that the interest rate of the loan was ultimately... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U187	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U188	... two to three times the size of the loan itself. We also had to fight hard to achieve justice. With the help of the Public Prosecutor's Office, we made legislative proposals for the Riigikogu that interest should not be higher than the amount borrowed. What's the point of all this? We will open the law, make fine-tuning, adjust the wording and, on the right hand, put some new deadline, but we will not deal with one very big problem that will make people in our country poorer and lead them into debt slavery. It works, and someone gets rich on it. And it's not modest enrichment, it's someone who lives very well at its expense. And nothing will be done. The fact that only the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority can handle these complaints is not the solution. If it is so easy for people to get fast loans because no one controls their solvency and, as we know, the problem with low-income families is that fast loans are taken spontaneously, with a sense of momentum or for small needs, or just for a feeling of well-being, it is actually the concern of our entire society. Families with a low standard of living will be even poorer, and they will be in the debt circle from which they cannot come. I understand the bailiffs get a lot of work because of them. They have income and activity as if it were happening. But we get a bunch of people with a badge in front of them, in debt, who can't live a normal, normal life. And the worst part is that we watch it all calmly because someone gets rich and someone has a good life because of it. I very much hope that next time we start opening this Financial Supervision Authority Act in this Riigikogu, I will also see in this draft some record of the activities of fast-lending companies and their management and supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U189	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good technical personnel! You see, now is the kind of time that kind of provokes such more philosophical discussions on where we come from and where we're on our way. As I said before in my previous speech, the financial sector and, in fact, financial capital have become extremely important in the economy over recent decades. Extraordinaryly large. And, of course, it should also have a certain counterweight in terms of financial supervision. How effective has it been? We probably have to admit that this has not been effective enough in Estonia so far. The first, or more specifically, was perhaps not the first, but the most influential view of financial capital, was published by Karl Marx. In his book Capital, he described the difference between the selling price and the cost of the product as added value and thought that this added value had been unfairly distributed. Why is he unfairly distributed? The reason for this was Marx's private property. And, of course, here came the logical conclusion that, in order to restore justice, private property must be nationalised, i.e. taken into social ownership. Karl Marx's theory has given rise to a great ideology that we today feel as Marxism. It was extremely popular in the Soviet Union, although some theorists claimed that it was still not quite a Marxism that was flourished in the Soviet Union. Perhaps it is astonishing for many, but for the time being Marxism continued vitally to live in academia. Later, Marxism itself and his emergence of various aftertheories have proved to be very popular. Karl Marx was born on May 5, 1818 in Trier, Germany, in a Jewish family and died on March 14, 1883 in London, and in the meantime he had moved to London. He studied law and philosophy at the universities of Bonn and Berlin, so in fact he did not have a real economics education. In 1845 he and his coworker Friedrich Engels wrote a work such as German ideology. In this he postulated the view of historical Marxism that the determining factor in historical development was the service of material goods, including financial benefits. In 1848 he and Engels wrote "The Manifesto of the Communist Party," in which there was little talk about financial capital. But in 1849, after defeating [the] revolution in Europe, he emigrated to England, where now pay attention, please! was published in 1859 in his theory as one of the most important works, "Political Economics Criticism." There was a lot about the financial issue. And in 1867 the first part of the Capital appeared. Coming back to the bill... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U191	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U192	When I come back to the bill, I have to say that Marx knew nothing about modern financial supervision. But now I'm going back to the context. So, in 1867 the first part of "Capital" appeared, the second part appeared in 1885 and the third part was unfinished. But from Marx's notes, it was written by Friedrich Engels. Later there have been many debates about whether or not Engels did so with due respect for Marx's authorship. "Capital" already focused on purely financial capital, that was his core. As a theorist, Marx's influence was immense. And not only in terms of financial capital, or even in terms of primary financial capital, but above all in terms of social philosophy and macrosociology. They continue to be the subject of interpretation. Marx wrote his main work somewhere in the mid-19th century, as I said before, and also in the second half of the century. If we want to understand this Marx approach or his view and perhaps his mistakes, and why he was unable to anticipate the need for financial supervision properly, then we need to think first of all about the context in which he lived and where he worked out his theory. I would like to drop the point here and come back to putting it in context when we are dealing more with the drafts on political ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U193	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U194	Thanks for the word! I'd like to recall a few people, one of whom may be behind the TV, but the other maybe somewhere on Muhu Island. One former reform party, one current reform party. Only quite recently did the social media have a word war between the two people who have been sharing a hall, a party, a group for so long. The word war was under a post in [social media] where the poster stated that the only conflict of interest in the money laundering investigation case was Jürgen Ligil. This was confirmed by his native party partner, Igor Gräzin. Gräzin said that Ligi was the Minister of Finance for all the money laundering and was not interested in finding out the truth. Mr. Ligi, come and comment, because your name has been mentioned! Jürgen Ligi replied: "Igor Gräzin, you are pathetic. As a lawyer, you know well that neither Helme nor his lawyer has anything to do with the truth or the investigation. The prosecutor's office investigates whatever they do and doesn't cooperate with them, they don't even let them. You also know that finance ministers didn't study earlier, and money laundering has nothing to do with financial stability and regulation, and here I have success and only success. " Jürgen Ligi went on to complain that "every minister is nothing, otherwise he wouldn't slander me and deal with those whose work was really the prevention of crime. Money laundering is a crime, not finance." Igor Gräzin replied to his good party partner: "Of course, there may have been difficulties. [---] Kill Magnitski, about whom Obama's application and the Magnitsky Act are, etc., the motive for the murder was about 1 km off Narva Road from the prosecutor's office and 1.5 km away from the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, it's important that someone hits someone in the head with a pan! And yet," said Gräzin, "I don't want to blame any party (yet) and I stress that Eerik-Niles Kross was in favour of Magnitski from the beginning. " Igor Gräzin replied when Jürgen Ligi said that you slandered me: " How successful, what a mistake! But it's a conflict of interest, too. Besides success, it's a case where there's an interest in covering things up. [---] A different story was wrapped up, the VEB Foundation, which makes you think. " And that was what the Reform Party's native party companion said. Where can we get more qualified inside information if there has been a serious conflict of interest? Total failure. Willful? That's a good question. What, then, about our excellent legal system? What words of praise? Nor does the dictionary help to find any words of praise. Because who's convicted? Show me one soul convicted of the flow of these hundreds of billions. Quiz question: Who has been convicted? What vital person was brought to justice? Must have been one or two tellers. Is this the legal order that allows global looting? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U195	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U196	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U197	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U198	We have to rewrite a well-known proverb that says big crooks in a carriage and little gallows in a gallows hanger. No big gallows, no little gallows, no one's gallows. That is our legal order. Minister of the Interior and Justice of the Reform Party! You have not been able to create a legal order in 17 years where even one teller could be punished for hundreds of billions of flowing, stinking. It was Solgi-Neeva, which went through Estonia. Our banks, the Swedish banks, abused our trust. What have they done to restore it? They were looted. Banks are like countries in the country. No one bears responsibility, no teller bears responsibility, let alone bankers. And who said that the Estonian legal system is safe? That's what Danske Bank management said in his leaked memo. They say there's nothing to worry about. For 17 years, you've led us into an excellent zone of impunity. Only those who put the pan on, that's what they're gonna close. But if entire countries are looted, nothing will happen. Oleg Ossinovski corrupts two countries at a time, gets caught with huge luggage between two countries, gets caught with wallets. Nothing's gonna happen. Nothing! Only the Styopa that hit with the pan will be caught on Kohtla-Järve. You've created a fantastic arrangement, a fantastic legal order where no one from white collars will ever fall in. Billions have run through, somebody's been killed, somebody's killed themselves. Nothing's gonna happen! Nothing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U199	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's pretty interesting to have three quarters of three talks here at night. I don't have very good oratorial powers, I'm always very jealous of the people who have them. My respects! But I'm gonna tell you a little bit about my thoughts. The Financial Supervision Authority started operating on 1 January 2002 when the Banking Supervision Authority of Eesti Pank and the Insurance and Securities Supervision Authority of the Ministry of Finance joined. The need for common supervision had allegedly already been on the agenda at the time of the bankruptcy of Maapank in 1998. The Financial Supervision Authority Act was adopted on 9 May 2001. Since then, Mr Kilvar Kessler has also been involved with the Financial Supervision Authority. The Financial Supervision Authority is part of the European Supervisory Authorities' network, so that the competence should be high and sustainable. In addition, we have the Money Laundering Data Bureau and the Anti-Money Laundering Government Commission. Their role is to ensure the integrity and transparency of the financial system, and all possibilities to prevent money laundering should be created in conjunction with the Money Laundering Data Bureau. In determining the risk of money laundering, Estonia has been assessed with an index of 2.36 (potentially 10). It's not very high. Experts have said that Estonia is one of the most risky countries in the world. We know that the money was washed here in Estonia in 2007-2015 quite unbridled. This was done even after an ambassador from a neighboring country had gone to warn us. I heard a little about it. It was even heard that something was discovered, but this disclosure was soon suppressed. It is now possible to read from err.ee that Danske Bank is not at risk of criminal prosecution for violations of anti-money laundering rules. I wonder why. At the same time, I read that the United States brought an action against the CEO of Danske Bank. A compensation of DKK 10 million was applied for. We're rich enough, we gave up on the fine money or at least ask for some. It's very difficult to understand what's really going on. Why did Estonia's relevant institutions not discover money laundering to such a large extent? Why wasn't anything done? Now we're actually at the other end of the line. Martin Helme was talking about companies here. I can only add that the borrower, including a private individual, must, even with a rather small own contribution, explain its legitimacy, i.e. where its own contribution comes from. Such an experience was acquired quite recently by a young person. I don't know if it's ours, that if we do something, we'll still do Russian stupidity with German precision. That's what folklore says. You have to fill out forms and you never know what the result is. Examples are taken from both the press and practical life. I don't think this bill we're dealing with here today will solve the situation. However, I very much hope that this amendment to the law will create the prerequisite for making Estonian banking more reliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U201	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good friends from the opposition, from the coalition! We are discussing here the draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act. And we have already repeatedly and repeatedly pointed out in our questions that, unfortunately, we did not receive much answers from the rapporteur for this bill today. I do not know whether it is a question of the fact that I do not suspect a well-respected waitress in any way that she would be foolish or that she would not master the subject, but regrettably today she did not want to give us any answers or to open the background, content and background of this law in general. Regrettably, the text and explanatory memorandum of the bill are also very laconic. We have repeatedly pointed out here today that it is a very bad practice how we deal with these draft laws here. We now have a unique opportunity to take advantage of the time to get into the content, to try to understand how we, as legislators, must behave and how we must proceed with these draft laws. Yes, the Financial Supervision Authority is an important tool in regulating the entire financial world. However, we know that this draft law on supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which we are discussing here today, should have existed long ago in the form we have here today, even as laconically as it is. Between 2008 and 2014 the large-scale money laundering of Estonian banks went through and the Financial Supervision Authority did not do or saw anything at the time. We don't know, maybe he did. But they still say, "Don't follow my words, follow my actions." Unfortunately, we didn't see any action at the time. And really, now we're discussing this bill that once the big-eyed fishing net has let the big fish through, there's gonna be a small net. Despite the fact that we did not get a lot of answers from the draft rapporteur today, this laconic text can still conclude that it is a small network that is currently being tried to set up, but which is relatively hopelessly late. This more than 200 billion euros, which moved through Estonian banks in those years and which actually damaged our country's reputation enormously, is also damaging now, all of this has already happened. Extra time, please! Sorry, I made sure you were asleep. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U203	No, I'm not sleeping, don't worry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U204	The eyes were closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U205	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U206	I'm glad you're still with us. If you look at the common person's point of view, which is what all this brings or has actually brought, as such a simple person and as a user of banking services, I started to notice that every once in a while, if I want to enter the Internet bank, I have a question on my screen that needs to be filled out. You can't sneak past it. If you want to do your thing, no matter how busy you are, you have to fill out this questionnaire. It's really annoying, and people may not even know what it is. But that's exactly the little net that's trying to catch what? just garbage fish. But there aren't any. None of us, the simple people, are really dealing with what this draft law supplementing the law is going on here today. But since I have a little time, I thought I'd read to you what the Financial Supervision Authority thinks of its activities and how it praises itself. Then perhaps the listener will also have some insight into the subject we are discussing here today, because, as I have said here many times, we did not receive much information from the waitress. "Financial markets are intertwined globally, both in good and bad terms. The Financial Supervision Authority is also [---] one of the most closely related Estonian institutions to the financial supervision and partner institutions of the European Union. Cooperation between the [Financial Supervision Authority] allows risk mapping and management on a joint cross-border basis. In addition, integration will give the inspection, as the smallest financial supervisory authority, the opportunity to apply the best set of methodologies in the world and to contribute its know-how to their development. Like the coin, there are two sides to the close concentration of work processes in Europe, the inspectorate has some doubts, based on the experience so far, such as difficult-managed decision-making processes, which in rare cases, but unfortunately for us, may not always bring together results with Estonia's interests, and burdensome bureaucracy. However, closer cooperation between the financial supervisory authorities is a positive sign, as it will contribute to even higher quality supervision." [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] "The key words for 2019 are concentration, adjustment and growth in the financial sector in the Baltic countries, especially in the Estonian financial markets." Is my time up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U207	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U208	It's a real shame, because this nice and nice eulogy...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U209	Looks forward to the next time. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U210	You can read it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U211	[[Singing when he comes to the speaker's desk.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U212	I've never slept, and I suggest you stay awake like me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U213	Yeah, I'm trying to stay awake.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U214	Very good!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U215	Colleagues on this side of the screen and on that side of the screen and don't know where yet! We have heard a lot of sharp criticisms here from previous speakers about the Financial Supervision Authority, and I think this has been quite justified. If we look back in our short history, we will still find a lot of embarrassing moments about what kind of cash flows have flowed through the banks and how little has been put in front of it and to what extent information about this has actually come to Estonia from outside Estonia. Now we have here the 380 bill, which is trying to put this situation a little bit more on the track. True, although I say that the content of this draft is very constructive, but very laconic, I cannot suppress very serious doubts about the effectiveness of the new measures being implemented. As has already been pointed out here on several occasions, we did not receive sufficiently clear information from the draft rapporteur on what this alert and the publication of alerts are really all about. We asked very clearly whether the alert was incriminating, i.e. whether the institution, the financial institution, the financial service provider, who receives the alert, would already be charged in substance, or whether it really is a verbatim warning that we have noticed that you do not have things just as well, fix them. This is also possible, because those who have been involved in accounting a little bit, I think that there are a lot of people who have had their own small company, know that there may be routine errors in accounting, that there are some things that are not covered, or that there are some things in one column, but there are none in the other column. Everything happens, the person is wrong, and this mistake may also be reflected in his accounting records. The same applies to larger institutions; there are also human errors, technical errors, fingertips, many things. In this case, what is really necessary is a warning: we have established that you have a finger there, fix it. But it is possible to interpret this warning, and we did not get an answer from the waitress to that effect, even as an incriminating warning: we have established that you have systematically violated this, the second or third rule of law, and that is why we warn you that we are initiating a procedure against you that could grow into criminal proceedings and lead to them or their consequences. These issues were not clearly discussed by the Commission's representative. We were not even told whether they were discussed in the Commission. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U216	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U217	Three minutes if you give it to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U218	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U219	We were not even told whether these subjects were being discussed or overslipped. But I think these are very fundamental questions. It is also somewhat confusing that these notifications are valid for five years. Five years is actually a very short time in the financial world. Whoever has done a bit of business knows that in five years things can change and laws change. And often these things have some kind of retroactive effect. In the event of errors, violations or criminal record, these matters may take time and arise or be proven more than five years later. Nor did we get any answer or explanation as to why this kind of noise and whether we should not rewrite that longer deadlines are needed for certain things and, in certain cases, these deadlines may be shorter. In short, I would like to say with this point that this draft and what is contained here have a very large impression of the formality that we are going to do it formally. To some extent, the rapporteur referred to this when he said that these warnings had actually been issued before, but there has not been a sufficiently clear legal basis for this, and now we are creating a sufficiently clear legal basis. I say this when I read the bill that we are not creating a sufficiently clear legal basis. This is not a sufficiently clear legal basis. It is dispersal, ambiguous, questionable about deadlines. And that is why I am saying that I do not regard this draft as the most successful in terms of substance. This is a step in the right direction, no doubt. But it seems to me that this step is formalistic and does not give the result that he is expected to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U220	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U221	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, working people! Ladies and gentlemen, The Financial Supervision Authority is using techniques to liquidate the economy because businesses are being deprived of the opportunity to work and banks are closing their accounts. They fear that the Financial Supervision Authority will bully them, and that, in turn, raises the problem that we are losing small businesses. Back here are the savings loan cooperatives, whose activities are also dependent on the Financial Supervision Authority. This situation needs to be resolved, because this draft is an opportunity to bully businesses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U222	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U223	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing here the draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act 380. I'm going to read out a few lines of the current Financial Supervision Act. Paragraph 3 of this Article refers to the objectives of financial supervision and the resolution of the financial crisis. Paragraph 1: "Financial supervision shall be carried out in order to enhance the stability, reliability and transparency of the financial sector and to improve the efficiency of the functioning of the financial sector, to reduce systemic risks and to help prevent the use of the financial sector for criminal purposes, in order to protect the interests of clients and investors in the preservation of these funds and thereby to support the stability of the Estonian monetary system." Unfortunately, over the years, we continue to have many problems with the abuse of the trust of our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, we must continue to read about cases involving financial companies that abuse people's trust so that people lose their savings. Often these are people who have sold their forests, their land, all their real estate, and have put their resources to interest, but one day they will find out with great frustration that their money has gone. Then the question arises as to where the Financial Supervision Authority and other institutions were supposed to ensure that this did not happen. This bill, which we are talking about here, is undoubtedly one step forward. And, of course, this step should have been taken years ago, but better late than never. The next thing I know, I'm gonna go over some warning signs to identify a possible fraud. The result of what I'm saying could be that even one person after he hears what I'm saying has doubts before he decides to put money somewhere. [If just one person] makes the right decision and does not become a victim of deception, we can say that [my talk] has succeeded. What are the main signs of investment fraud that people should pay attention to? I guess we've all been exposed to calls from strange numbers, domestic and foreign, and repeated unwanted calls. This could be the first warning sign that should make us wonder why it is and what might be the thought of this constant annoyer that he keeps calling. It has often been said that if something seems too good to be true, we can generally say that it is. If you are promised a fast - paying investment that is very safe, it is always worth paying attention and caution and thinking about it. Rare are not even cases where the offer made to a person only applies for a short period of time... More time, please! Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U224	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U225	Thank you. Unless you invest on a day-to-day basis, the lamp could turn on when you start talking about the fact that today and just you they have a very important and good offer, take it or leave it. This is one of the methods of pressurizing, where people are given very little time to think. It is no secret that such crooks are very good psychologists and know exactly what to press on buttons and how to influence people. But now I'd like to go over some of the basic rules, which are, of course, also available on the Internet, and which I suggest you all look at before you decide to put your money somewhere. There are simple rules. Depending on the person, it's hard for some people to say no. There are people who have a hard time turning down salesmen. Say you don't want to buy anything. There are people who have the easiest to say no to, and there are people who have the hardest to say no to. But take it easy. If you get a sales call, you don't have to listen to it if you don't want to. You can always turn the phone off. You can always say that you want to think, discuss. That's where we get to the second point. Take your time. If you are told something that is very beautiful and tempting, take your time. Ask for the opinion of the specialists. Banks offer a wide range of counselling options. Take your time. Of course, it is very important not to give anyone who is not familiar with you, their computer, PIN codes, accounts, access data to accounts. They're just yours, and they can't be given to anyone, even though you're told a nice story. We often read in the paper how someone has fallen victim to crooks again. One typical story is that only you will be offered these good investment opportunities. In general, however, very good investment opportunities are offered to those who do this on a daily basis. So if you're offered some wonderful deal, take your time and think, discuss with the specialists, and don't rush. If you go through these steps calmly, I believe you will make the right decision. Always trust your gut and don't let it put pressure on you. Often, it is the time factor that is very important. Finally, on behalf of the EKRE Group, I propose that the reading of this draft be discontinued. The same proposal has also been submitted to the Bureau in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U226	Siim Pohlak, please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur was speaking English and did not speak about whether this regulation was also relevant to savings and loan cooperatives. I very much hope that this bill will not create a situation in which savings and loan cooperatives with a specific membership and transparency may be put to shame in vain, as cooperative banking in Estonia is unfortunately weak and any unnecessary negative attention will further undermine society's confidence in savings and loan cooperatives. But the history of the savings loan unions could take a little longer. I believe that my fellow Members do not object. Cooperative banking was very common in the Republic of Estonia before the occupation. More than two hundred credit unions and joint banks operated in Estonia, and there were considerably more deposits in cooperative credit institutions than in private banks. Savings and loan cooperatives have previously had an important regional policy importance in Estonia and, as you will hear, they were then able to cope with purely social control. No one at the time had dreamt of a supervisory authority like the Financial Supervision Authority. In Estonia, loan and savings companies or back-up funds were established in the second half of the 19th century. The first was founded in 1869 by Viljandi's loan and reserve fund. By the turn of the century there were 17 similar ones, but they still belonged to non-Estonians at the time. The first joint real credit institution owned by Estonians was the Estonian Loan and Deposit Society, founded in Tartu in 1902 on the initiative of Jaan Tõnisson. Similar financial institutions in Võru, Lihula, Valga and Viljandi followed Tartu. The historical importance of national common-geographical credit institutions was high. Estonian national credit unions helped farmers and other professions. And when banks led by the Baltic Germans gave up loans to them, they granted loans to Estonians to build houses and to open shops and craftshops. They also led to the introduction of agricultural cooperatives in the field of production. After the War of Independence, the start-up momentum of loan-saving cooperatives increased again: 152 savings-credit cooperatives were founded in 1924-1929 and 240 in total during the period of independence. They were geographically located in all Estonian cities and small settlements, which made them close to the population and reliable. This made it possible to pool local small deposits for the creation of credit resources. These savings and loan cooperatives financed local small businesses and construction activities in particular by means of a loan. Practically all lenders and lenders were known on the spot. It was a matter of trust, and social control worked. The Law on Credit Institutions, adopted in 1932, renamed joint banks as joint banks, and allowed them to carry out transactions which had been promised to the commercial banks so far. Before World War II, in 1939, 216 viable credit cooperatives operated in Estonia. There were people in all the counties of Estonia. In 1938, the loan portfolio of cooperative banks exceeded the loan volume of equity and city banks for the first time. Numerous members associate credit cooperatives with the public more often than other banks, so the volume of deposits in credit cooperatives significantly exceeded the deposit of residents in equity and city banks. On 1 May 1940, 15 private bank savings accounts amounted to 7.9 million kroons, but their volume in 61 major joint banks amounted to 9.1 million kroons. With the Communist rule in 1940, the system of joint banks was abolished. So wrote Professor Mart Sõrg of the University of Tartu. In Estonia today there are also outside Tallinn and Tartu cities, their golden circle, serious difficulties in obtaining loans, and one of the tools [to alleviate these difficulties] could be to encourage cooperative banking. I hope that the adoption of Bill 380 will not result in additional restrictions or unnecessary negative attention for savings-credit cooperatives and cooperative banks operating in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U228	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very symbolic that when we fight for our good colleagues, the Socialist OTRK, we do so when we talk about the Financial Supervision Authority and the financial world. Poverty often manifests itself in a small number of finances, as we know the obvious and simple truth. However, speaking at this early morning hour about this bill, I take the courage to give attention briefly to some of the facts that emerged from both the presentation and the laconic answers to the questions. The first major and often quite typical problem is that I did not get the impression that the impact of the draft has been carefully considered, and that there are no desirable consequences, but some have been said about them, as well as the unwanted consequences. Unfortunately, there was no impact analysis, and often this or another matter, as confirmed by the rapporteur in his reply, was not discussed by the Commission. Given the sensitivity and importance of financial systems, financial markets in our daily lives, I think this superficial attitude is not very responsible. Here is an example of the Riigikogu: working here toughly in the early hours of the morning is a good example of how the state must operate 24/7 and stand up for its citizens. Some of the more specific concerns. Any control mechanism and its cultivation is in principle always good if it is done for reasonable purposes and in a reasonable form. But this will always lead to greater staffing needs, and banks and other institutions will have to hire new staff. This will make the process slower and more complex, and it may appear that it is easier to switch to the black market when looking for some financial resources. This, in turn, leads to the shadow economy, and we all know that there is already a very short step towards crime, which in turn finances or supports other processes that are dangerous to the country. This statement from me is taken from a very specific source. We are talking about a conference in which an American businessman said that he has been wrestling with this problem for quite a long time, and it is in some respects a closed circle: control is needed, but it makes everything more expensive and pushes away those who need funding quickly. The desire to look at this matter too narrowly and not to worry about the impact is, in my opinion, quite common in many of our decisions. We live in some kind of narrow towers and do not see what the wider impact of our decisions is. I hope that once it comes down to us learning to anticipate wider influence and unwanted consequences, we will eventually come to the conclusion that, for example, for me very... I'd like a minute more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U230	A minute more, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U231	I have tried several times in different forms to explore what the Estonian state's wartime finances are, for example, the solutions and procedures are. The closest response is that we are dealing with cash circulation in times of crisis and war. But I don't think that's enough. Such an attitude, as we saw in the drafting of this draft, that we were looking at a narrow paragraph, a narrow problem, such an approach is not good. The finance of war and crisis is not, of course, the subject of this draft, but this attitude gave cause for concern. Thank you and strength for all of us! A beautiful new day has begun again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U232	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Comrades insomniac, as one movie said! In the meantime, I went to look out the window from Snell's pond and it dawns, for your information. Nightingales sing wild and lilacs smell. Promises to come on an exceptionally charming day at work. To begin with, I come back to the thought development of some of my fellow Members. Both Mr Halfamets and Mr Põljaas mentioned an affair of $10 million and [from what they said] it did not end. It's over. I don't remember exactly, but the Supreme Court's ruling clearly stated that the crime was planned and carried out. The fact that Siim Kallas got away with it was already a pure reform party trick that they were able to do by changing judges and prosecutors. In short, the Supreme Court said the crime was committed. It's clear. It's black in white, anyone can read it. But now from the savings loan unions. If you don't mind, I'll take a nostalgic look back. In the fertile conditions of the Soviet occupation, the working people could keep their money in the savings bank on top of the book, but only a friend could get the loan. You didn't get a loan from the savings bank, no matter what you did. Such a service simply did not exist in the Soviet Union. For example, there was such a thing in the institutions as a mutual assistance fund, where money had to be set up quietly, and if this amount exceeded a certain limit, then a loan could already be taken from it, such a small loan. That's how I bought my first color TV. However, with regard to savings and loan cooperatives, [remembers me], of course, the recent decision of the Riigikogu. We considered the amount of equity and, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I can tell you that the original proposal was that the equity of the savings loan cooperative would be EUR 1 million. This is a perfectly normal amount for a small savings loan cooperative somewhere in the countryside or put together between farms or owners. But it didn't work, and it didn't work because a former money minister with a relatively dirty mouth insisted that it be raised to 5 million, and that's how it was voted in this big hall. It was a very bad decision. The money laundering scandal, this epic money laundering through Estonian banks, is, of course, a huge disgrace to Estonia. When Martin Helme, as former Minister of Finance, says that powerful and nice people work in the Financial Supervision Authority, we certainly have to believe that, probably so, but they missed this case. Any money laundering is preceded by careful planning, all right? You can't be funny about a big operation like this. The weakest link in the chain is chosen, with bad laws, poor laws, poor supervision, corrupt bankers or, worst of all, roofing politicians or politicians at the end of a very short chain. And if all these things are there... Can I have an extra three minutes, please? ... if these conditions are met, the situation will be catastrophic. But there's one good news about it. As far as I know, bank officials have been involved in money laundering, some of them knowing that they were washing money, making copies of the transfers, and I very much hope they made it to Louis Freeh to transmit copies of those transfers. So the panic that opened at the Reform Party after the conclusion of Louis Freeh's contract, it was entirely justified because, figuratively speaking, the rats were in the corner and the panic office was open. But criminals are always ahead and the legislator follows them, so is the case with the Financial Supervision Authority. When Mr. Kessler came last week, or was it the other day? In introducing his new plans to us, he called the Financial Supervision Authority as a new function to ensure the information security of financial companies or financial institutions or to audit it. But if you, ladies and gentlemen, look at the list of employees on the Financial Supervision Authority's website, you will see that there are IT people there, those who satisfy the inspection's own needs, there are no IT specialists there. And as the IT people themselves say, IT specialists working in the public sector are not the sharpest pencils. If we want the Financial Supervision Authority to have a world-class capacity in this area, or at least at European level, they must be given a lot of extra money so that they can hire talented and brilliant people, creative people. What we did not hear from Mr Kessler was concerned about investment fraud. In the paper, we read about these guys practically every week. The amounts are different, from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands, but, as several colleagues have said here, there will be offers. We're in the weather network, we get these offers from home Estonia, we get them from other parts of the world. Some are very well served and there must be a serious detective, an experienced detective to solve them, and obviously our Financial Supervision Authority does not have this capability at the moment. This, too, requires development. We must not remain a tail jogger, because the reputation of the Estonian state and the wallet of our people are at stake here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U234	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U235	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U236	Please, a total of eight!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U237	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we begin to address any financial issue, we should think of two fundamental things: what is modern money and what could the future of the global financial system be? But before I come to this issue, I will take this opportunity to apologise, on behalf of our group, to the technical staff, that you are in this situation now and that you have to work in the middle of the night. But there's nothing to do. When a roller rolls, it is not blocked by twig or loginot, but requires proper barriers to pioneering. I'm going to the subject now. In 1992 the monetary reform took place and the crown came. I remember being the chief of staff at the time of the Defence League in Tallinn. In the spring, shortly before [the money reform], we were paid in rubles. Of course, we didn't get paid before. I remember well that the first salary I received was 280 kroons. If I had been a sustainable young man then I was young, but I was not sustainable, I would have saved a tenth of that money, or 28 kroons, and put it aside every month. I'm asking you what the value of this 28 crown is today. About two euros. Would I have saved anything? That is the very fundamental question: why is this the case and from what? It is worth remembering one very signicant date in the world's financial history. This date is August 15, 1971. On that day, the Federal Reserve of the United States decided that the US dollar, which was so far tied to gold ($35 worth of one ounce of gold), was decided to untie the gold. What was the reason for this decision? The reason, of course, was to finance the Vietnam War and all the other expenses the Americans had. There was a debt to be taken. But it was too much to take on and it was not possible to pay it back in the case of a stable dollar. Thus, the US dollar was untied from the gold base and since then, other currencies have no longer been on the gold base. I'm gonna have to fix one little mistake I made on "Si vis pacem" that runs in the New News. I said the US dollar has lost 95% of its value, but I was wrong. The dollar has lost 97% of its value compared to today, not 95%. So you see what's become of it. 95% of its value has lost the German mark and its successor, the euro, it is only a little less. After all, you sense that saving in this situation is essentially impossible, because there is a mathematical thing like a compound percentage that keeps piling up and piling up and the value of money is decreasing in constant gravity. If we lived at the time of August 15, 1971, I would not only be in favour of the first and second pension pillars, but also of the third and fourth pension pillars. I was wondering if we could talk about all this when we were discussing the subject of the second pension pillar. But I didn't want to do that because I didn't want to go to a debate on general policy issues. As a member of the National Defence Committee, it is still my job to deal with matters of national defence. But I'm going to do it now because it's a very fundamental question. I must admit that my teachers in this area have been people such as Alar Tamming and Meelis Atonen, who are themselves members of the Reform Party. They're both gold dealers. I have read everything they have written and what has been written on the Tavid portal about the financial system very carefully, and I really have a good recommendation to my good colleagues in the Reform Party Group: read and talk to you about what they have written, try to understand the nature of the modern financial system, otherwise we will not in principle be able to make adequate decisions. This is a very clear obstacle. When the Governor of Eesti Pank spoke here some time ago, he admitted that the gold supply of the Republic of Estonia was only 250 kilos and was worth about 10 million euros. That's very little. The Governor of the bank explained why the gold supply is not greater, that gold earns nothing, that the value of gold does not grow. But actually, the point is that the value of gold doesn't shrink. I made sure that an ounce of gold is now worth about 1540 euros, in dollars this figure is even higher. Indeed, I would say that the value of gold has not changed, but the value of fiat money, or unbound money, has simply fallen. That's the problem. Now try to analyze what will happen to this financial system. My time is running out, I'm sure I'm not gonna finish this, but at least I'm gonna start with it. China's share in the current world financial system is very low compared to China's economic weight and, of course, it is not difficult to assume that China can try to change this situation very decisively in the future and perhaps make a Yuan world currency. How could China do this? The Chinese have taken several very important steps. First of all, the Chinese real gold reserves have increased to around 25000 tonnes, much more than all Western countries combined. China could tie a yuan to gold at any time and change the whole currency system, but it's not doing it now. I cannot talk about why he is not doing this now and when he could do it, and I will come back to that in the next financial debate. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U238	There is no further request, I will close the negotiations. We have one amendment to review that has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U239	Thank you, President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this proposal be put to the vote and, before it, to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U240	Okay, intermission ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U241	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are discussing amendments to the draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act. We have only one amendment, it has been made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. The ECRE Group has wished to vote on this amendment. Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, it is a really good point for us to note that we are currently discussing the draft law on supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But, as we heard during the discussion of this draft, Erki Savisaar was in very serious trouble in answering the questions, and later in speaking to him as representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, he admitted that this bill had serious shortcomings...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U243	Mr Grünthal, this is not a procedural question. We have already passed these questions. We have passed these questions during the procedure for the draft, and everyone has had the opportunity to give their opinion. Thank you! We are going to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U244	However, I would like to ask a procedural question. Does the author wish to withdraw this draft? [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U245	I didn't hear a word you said. Mr Grünthal, indeed, we have all passed them. You have had the opportunity to say your opinion during the negotiations, and that is what you said. I shall put to the vote before you Amendment 1 supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U246	The amendment was supported by 42 members of the Riigikogu, one against and two abstentions. The proposal was supported. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft, but we have received the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the reading. Mr. Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U247	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U248	Here you go. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U249	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the Conservative People's Party Group is over and we are going to the vote. The ECRE Group has proposed to suspend the second reading of draft 380 and now we have to vote on it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U250	The proposal for interruption was supported by 16 delegates, 42 were opposed and there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have examined today's fourth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U251	Let us move forward swiftly to today's fifth item on the agenda. Second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Election of the European Parliament and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government (the participation of a Member of the European Parliament in the work of the local government council) 389. The rapporteur is Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please! But before we get to the report, we have a procedure from Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U252	Thank you, Mr President. I also asked procedural questions before your change of power, but then the one who sat on the remote in your seat announced that my voice was not heard. Is that what you're hearing now? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U253	Yeah, I can hear a voice right now. We can go to the report. Please, Toomas Stone Mountain!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U254	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a special honor to begin your presentation at sunrise and an anthem. So I hope you get up when the anthem starts playing. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 1 June. As the draft was so well prepared, clear and understandable, no amendments were received to this effect. And that is why the debate in the Commission was very brief. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, communicated the position of the Government of the Republic, which was: support the draft. Mr Reinsalu, for his part, proposed that the Commission consider an amendment that would suspend the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament as a member of the Council when he was elected a Member of the European Parliament. Paul Puustusmaa thought it could be voted on. The chairman of the committee considered that, since it is significantly different in weight and content from the point of view of the draft, he did not consider it necessary to put this amendment to the vote, all the more so since the deadline for amendments had also expired. The following procedural decisions were taken: Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 8 June. There were 5 votes for, 0 against and 2 abstentions. Secondly, to propose the termination of the second reading, in favour of 5, against 0, with 3 abstentions. And third, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading and that the final vote be taken on 16 June 2021, by 5, against 1 and with 2 abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U255	There's some questions for the waitress. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U256	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, it's a very interesting time, and it's getting bright. Good experience. But could you help me with a little bit to remind me and explain why this law is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U257	Honourable questioner! Here today very much has been pointed out that the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu should be observed. And if you consider the role and mandate of the Commission rapporteur, it is his task to mediate what took place between the first and second readings in the Commission, to present the amendments that were not there and, if the amendment was rejected, to state the reason why they were rejected. This question you tabled was not discussed in the committee session.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U258	But you can always answer. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U259	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! This draft law has, of course, been brought to us so that we can get to know precisely the problems that were in the Commission. Did the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the national electoral services also speak in the Commission and contribute to the debate on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U260	Thank you. Unfortunately, you did not listen to me with sufficient attention, because I have just indicated that the representative of the Government of the Republic introduced the position of the Government of the Republic, which was supportive of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U261	They also asked about the election service.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U262	There's nothing in the protocol on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U263	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U264	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is common for us here to ask from time to time whether the various drafts were also in contact with the stakeholders or with the parties they speak about or who are concerned by them. At this point, I would like to ask whether or not the Commission was talking to our Members of the European Parliament. What are their thoughts and opinions on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U265	Yes, there were contacts and negotiations with Members of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U266	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I see that you are very clingy today, contrary to how you always speak in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so it is very difficult to even talk to you at your side. I understand that an old age and an early morning hour will also have a profound effect on the strongest nervous system. However, I will come to this item because we discussed this amendment very thoroughly. Our people know that there is talk about the law of two chairs, i.e. you can apply for the local government and then you can sit in the Riigikogu at the same time. What's there to deny, we'll tell you it's really the law of three chairs. What is your view, then, of the Commission? I did not understand how it would be possible to come here to the local council meeting and participate successfully in the work of the council by this Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U268	Thank you, dear questioner. On the start of the question, I will try to balance the fact that I speak a lot, here less, in the Commission, and here too today, so that you can speak more, I will speak a little shorter. So it is finally up to every Member to decide. First of all, if he has that chance, I think he'll let us know before the elections whether he actually comes to the council or not. If this bill gets approved, he'll have a chance to come to the council. And these council meetings are not just held on Thursdays, but I know that, for example, Antslas is sitting on Tuesday, there was a discussion with a colleague about this, and in some places the session also takes place through Teams, so it is up to every Member of the European Parliament to decide that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U269	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U270	Thank you very much. First of all, I congratulate the chairman of the meeting for his very balanced leadership. Because, according to the current situation, things have gotten pretty nervous. I also have an extremely harsh complaint for Thomas, a very good colleague. This complaint, in particular, is that the current report gives the impression that there was so much going on in our committee that we were able to write a series and a half of the Commission's minutes. That's how the presentation looked like there was no more to say than a line and a half. But I can certainly say, all ladies and gentlemen, that the debate in our committee was a little longer and it was more than a line and a half. Please, Thomas, tell me how many lines are actually in the protocol, because this report is so short. Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U271	Thank you, dear questioner. The complaints that the Commission has not discussed in detail are not relevant insofar as I present the content of the Commission sitting in preparation for the second reading. At the first session, when there was the preparation of the first reading, also the initiation of it was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was a very long and thorough debate, but the so-called substantive part of the second reading protocol is one page.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U272	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U273	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, In any case, I note that this is not a motion of mistrust, you don't have to think so hard about every word. Speak bravely. And consider it a verbatim. Just because there's an obstruction up there now doesn't mean there shouldn't be anything left on such an important subject. I need to know why that decision was made. Someday, the history of the Riigikogu needs to be written. So I'd like to know more. And I will ask again about the specific positions of the Members of the European Parliament. Did these opinions differ from one another, or were they all enthusiastic about getting into councils?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U274	Thank you, dear questioner. So much for the previous questioner and the answer to you: I have no nervousness in me. I don't know where this nervousness is, right, and where this obstruction is up, I don't get it right now either. I'm just using the word "up." So I am speaking exactly as much as I consider necessary, and as a result of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. You have stressed this dozens of times that it must be followed. I have no authority, I say frankly, to mediate the views of the MEPs elected from Estonia, because I can interpret them differently. They have not been recorded in the Commission and were not under discussion in the Commission either. Indeed, I have no authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U275	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U276	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Perhaps this issue, which I am now asking about, was not really discussed at the Commission meeting. Probably. This does not mean, however, that you did not think about this question in the Commission during the procedure on this issue. On the contrary, I'm almost sure you thought about that when you decided. Well, not quite sure, but almost. But while you were thinking, you probably also wondered which system was more democratic than the other one. If you really did not think about this during the procedure, then it must be said that this Member of the Commission was not at the required level. And if you thought, as I rather tend to think, then I ask what arguments you gave yourself to justify the decision you made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U277	Thank you, dear questioner. I thought you said you could see inside my head. I can't see inside your head, but you seem to see it, even though I have some doubts about it. The answer is very simple. Here, point one is equal treatment. Members of the Riigikogu have the right to belong to local government councils in the same way; members of the European Parliament do not. Secondly, the Supreme Court has actually said that this is a constitutional constraint, a restriction of the passive right to vote, as it is currently in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U278	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U279	Mr. President! Dear waitress, Well, we all realize it's like making a smokescreen around here. This whole bill is a smokescreen, and basically it's a bill to legalize decoy ducks. We can make any big words here about equal treatment and everything else. It is clear from the day that a permanent member of the European Parliament working in Brussels cannot actively and competently deal with the matter anywhere in rural councils. Or do you have a different opinion? I do have a very clear conviction that this is not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U280	Thank you, dear questioner. I certainly do not agree with the remark that this is the legalisation of decoy ducks. Although, in this sense, I say that if they do not now have the right to belong to a council, then it is really now that there are so-called decoy ducks who are running but cannot belong to a council. If, now, this draft is approved by Parliament and they have the right to actually belong to the council, it would be totally inappropriate to appoint Members of the European Parliament who are running for office and going to councils, decoy ducks. Secondly, as regards whether it is possible or not, I will draw a parallel with the members of the Riigikogu. It also seemed to be such that maybe just giving the bait ducks more weight to get more votes. As far as I know, 48 members of the Riigikogu currently belong to the local government council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U281	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U282	Good President! Good waitress! I am really glad to see that, although you obviously came to this remote control and thought that you were giving relatively laconic answers, a member of the sunrise government, together with the sunrise, has gone off really well and the story is running. But here's my question. In this section, § 2 states that the second sentence of § 17 (3) is amended and worded as follows: "If a member of a council is a member of the European Parliament or of the Riigikogu during his or her term of office, he or she shall not be paid a fee for taking part in the work of the council. " The members of the Riigikogu are used to it, but for Members of the European Parliament it may come unexpectedly. Has it been discussed in the Commission or asked the Members of the European Parliament whether they agree that they will not be paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U283	Thank you, dear questioner. Thank you for your good words. No, we haven't asked if they're okay with it. But here, too, there is, in fact, again an analogy with the members of the Riigikogu, who also do not receive any remuneration for their participation in the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U284	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U285	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Another new amendment giving more opportunities to one of the ambassadors. And now I have the question that, if this is another step, if inspired by this, it is planned to take the next step, which will make the whole situation this way: a person can be a member of the Riigikogu at the same time, a Member of the European Parliament and a member of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U286	Thank you. Unfortunately, this possibility does not exist, nor does it intend to introduce such an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U287	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This amendment amends both the European Parliament Election Act and the Local Government Organisation Act. The following changes are made to the Local Government Organisation Act. The second sentence of paragraph 17 (3) is amended and worded as follows: "If a member of a council is a member of the European Parliament or of the Riigikogu during his or her term of office, he or she shall not be paid a fee for participating in the work of the council. " The third sentence of paragraph 17 (4) is amended and worded as follows: "If the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Council is a member of the European Parliament or of the Riigikogu during his or her term of office, he or she shall not be remunerated for the duties of Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Council. "In paragraph 18 (1) (5) the words "or a Member of the European Parliament' are deleted. " Finally, the following wording points to (i): "A Member of the European Parliament may perform the duties of a member of a municipal or city council from the day of the announcement of the election results of the regular elections of the local government council in 2021. " How did local authorities feel about these changes in COKS?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U289	Thank you, dear questioner. Opinions are different. Indeed, there is also their position here, their opinion on the umbrella organisation, and the opinions are different, some are in favour of it, some are not in favour of it. Perhaps as one more reply, to indicate that their rights will only be extended, this bill will in fact also restrict the powers that MEPs have. Surprise-surprise, according to the current law, they may belong to a municipality or city government. They may not be mayors or mayors, nor may they be members of the council, but according to the law in force, they may belong to the municipal or municipal administration. This is completely absurd for me. That's the right we're losing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U290	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U291	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. I would like to ask again about the second sentence of Article 17 (3). We can understand from this bill what it was turned into, what it was, but it's not exactly understood what it was turned into. What was the text of the original sentence that we now have before us in a modified form?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U292	Thank you, dear questioner. I would like to ask you to clarify exactly what you mean. (Urmas Reitelmann explains something about it. President: "Primary text. ") I think you can see for yourself what the original text is. I really do not have this European Parliament election law at hand at the moment. Perhaps as a reply that it was really adopted in 2002. In 2004, we joined the European Union and have indeed taken the view that there was not enough evaluation of this possible constitutional interference. So in that sense, I think it's entirely appropriate. And I will say again that it is rather problematic from the point of view of the constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U293	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U294	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You were quite frank about answering your first questions, but I have to thank you that you have now begun to answer basically. But you didn't answer my first question, essentially, so I'll ask you again. Could you at least tell me how many Members of the European Parliament were discussing this draft and what feelings and thoughts they still expressed? Why don't you open it up a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U295	Thank you. I will repeat once again on the issue of language: since I have received the comment that I am speaking too much in committee, that I am not giving room to others, that is why I am speaking briefly here today. Maybe not from now on. To keep room for a reservation, I think they talked to six at least if not seven. In fact, the aim was indeed to negotiate with all seven members of the European Parliament elected from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U296	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U297	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! I like your attitude towards the matter less words and more actions, there's not much to talk about, because it's already clear. But I still have a little question. Paragraph 76 (2) is amended as follows: "The appointment of a Member of the European Parliament to an office listed in subsections 2, 4, 5, 6 or 7 of § 75 of this Act or to the circumstances mentioned in subsections 3 to 6 of subsection 1 of this § shall immediately be notified to the European Parliament by the Election Commission of the Republic. " But why should he inform the European Parliament immediately? What's the purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U298	Well, it is now that, according to the law in force, when he becomes a member of the elected council, he must give up this mandate of the European Parliament within ten days. In that case, he can actually still be a member of the Council, but the assumption is that he will waive the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament. And on this point, if it opts out, it is necessary to inform the European Parliament immediately, because it will then lose this mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U299	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U300	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am very pleased to see that a member of the Riigikogu, who is the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has done his work excellently. He has a smooth grasp of the subject he has dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; he is able to answer these questions, contrary to Erki Savisaar, the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority, who, as it seems, has not discussed at all the matters of the Financial Supervision Authority since he did not know much about it. But now I actually have a substantive question. You said here that that's the way it is around Antsla, let's say this council has to vote like this. What, by the way, is one of the ambassadors who are in the Euro Parliament and who come from the Café Centre? The village of Kokaviidica really exists, it is in Viljandi county, Viljandi municipality and Saarepeed village, and how will he get there if there is a risk of discrimination because he is not paid for participating in the work of the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U301	Thank you, dear questioner, for your good words first. Once again, I think it fits in with the MEP's fee, including those related to participation in the work of the local government council, should it do so. I very much believe and hope that it fits close enough, but I think it will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U302	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U303	Thank you. However, as a result of the honourable rapporteur's first answer and subsequent answers, I dare ask again. I read here in the explanatory memorandum to bill 389 that there has also been a meeting or an opinion from the Cities and Municipalities Association. Perhaps, however, you will descend so low and explain to me what the views of the Cities and Municipalities Association were.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U304	Thank you, dear questioner. I actually referred once, it is true that, since there was now too much time to give this opinion, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs initiated this draft only recently, if I am not mistaken, even if it was or was not at first reading. So the community of municipalities and cities also explained that, since the time was a little too little, they may not have been able to ask everyone, but this letter exists. I don't have it on this table right now. Indeed, there were no specific references, but the same concern was, in fact, raised here by Mr Grünthal and some of your colleagues yet, as far as it is actually possible to participate in the work of the local government council. It was like a key issue. But let's say, once again, I very much hope that these Teams meetings will not be just during the COVID period in the future, but we will probably also undertake a reform of the local government council law in the autumn, and perhaps we will indeed regulate these remote session options. And I think it could become, if not the norm, at least much more widely used in normal times, not just during a crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U305	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U306	Thank you very much, manager. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! Well, I can't join Kalle Grünthal's praises. I am very pleased that we are going to be thoroughly involved today, because such a failure is coming out. In answering my previous question, you said that, yes, we were in contact with the Members of the European Parliament somewhere in the Teams, but I will not say what they said. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I have a big request: do it! You can't do things like this, you haven't questioned the main characters, or if you've been questioned, it's a big state secret they thought. Maybe they're being forced, like Marti Kuusik's husband, to admit what they've never suffered? Maybe they're blackmailed somewhere in Narva City Council by force? Perhaps one day you will become a member of the European Parliament and then you will be torn down and taken to Pärnu City Council. Demonstrate the positions they have said. It's really amazing. Nothing malicious, but the opinion of the main characters should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U307	Mr. Half-Amets, this is a completely inappropriate remark. It's a completely inappropriate remark. It's a completely inappropriate remark! In fact, it is not right to make laws according to one person or another. We were just looking into what their position is. It is not correct to legislate according to one Member of the European Parliament who is currently there. In this sense, it does not make sense. We still have to look more generally and more broadly, not from this point of view, I don't know if Jaan likes or doesn't like this bill. It's not appropriate. We were just looking at the feedback on what it might be like. Indeed, I am not in a position to express the views of one or another Member of the European Parliament. I don't have that authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U308	Before we go to the next question, we have to solve one procedure that Kalle Grünthal has. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U309	Thank you, Mr President. I am currently breaking an important law such as the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which was adopted on 11 February 2003 and has been amended several times. I am absolutely convinced that this law is still intended to ensure that we comply with the codified right laid down here in such a way that we are obliged to do so under certain conditions. But now it's gonna take me a little while to find this place. If the Anti-Semiamets were to use my name, perhaps, to ask a question here, how would that sound? Is it okay to use my name arbitrarily when it comes to the very esteemed Thomas Kivimägi? I'd like to get some details on that. And if that is or is not the case, we would ask for a reference to the paragraph.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U310	The reference to the section cannot be given, because a member of the Riigikogu may ask for and refer to the views that occurred during the discussion. If this is the case during the negotiations, then the reply is entitled. But it is our customary practice that questions raised before are referred to in the round of questions and also referred to the questioner. Certainly no one has been harmed here now that the question or speech he has put is referred to. But I see there is a need to continue this subject. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U311	Thank you, Mr President. So I get it right then that I can use the name of all the honourable members of the Riigikogu at all random, any time I open my mouth. It's like that, isn't it? Then, if they want, they can, when they are given permission, give me an answer, if that is provided for in the paragraph, and if not, they can't. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U312	The address, or reply, is during the negotiations. Indeed, it is permissible to use the names of their colleagues when questions are asked or when there is a speech. But not randomly, in the sense that you shouldn't put words in your mouth. We can go on with the questions. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U313	Thank you, Mr President. I really do have a question for the honourable waitress. You see, politicians often claim that one thing is not comparable to another, such as the Soviet Union is not comparable to the European Union, etc. Actually, I'm telling you, the terms "comparable" and "similar" are confused here. Almost all phenomena are comparable between us, let's say, almost, whether it makes sense to compare all things. But anyway, let's say there's even a method in science like a comparative method. And when assessing this adequacy of a political decision, the comparative method should be even elementary, let's say so. I am now asking if there was any background information on how many members of the European Parliament from other European Union countries belong to their own local councils.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U314	Thank you, dear Jack White. Thank you very much for this question. It wasn't until later that I had finished my report here at first reading that I forgot to say it. In fact, in Finland and Sweden, for example, MEPs are allowed to belong to local government councils. This is a concrete example. And as a second reply, I would like to say that gentlemen Kalle Grünthal and Paul Puustusmaa, who are members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have made my life very difficult, but in the end they have been constructive and have pursued a common goal. So in that sense, I sincerely acknowledge them. It's not easy, but you've remained constructive in the end. So there is a very constructive atmosphere in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U315	Constructively continuing with procedural questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U316	Thank you. I would like to know that, since the honourable waitress has just used my name here, almost repeatedly, whether or not I can make a response or I have to ask a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U317	Neither one nor the other. You should wait until the negotiations and then you can take the floor. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U318	Thank you very much, Mr President. I used to congratulate you on your leadership, because indeed, here we are moving very smoothly and quickly and constructively towards the end of the day, and I really sincerely believe that we can still deal with OTRK, how well it is going. We have also praised the good waitress, and Thomas has done very well. But I would also really like to congratulate our good colleagues, who are behind the TVs in the rooms, who are very closely following our speeches and are currently making up their questions at least in their heads. But now I also have a very constructive question about this sitting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, about the latter. What I want to ask is that when Urmas Reinsalu made an extremely exciting proposal there and we analyse it quickly and, good Thomas, you also gave an answer to that, but it has not been reflected here. Why don't you introduce me to this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U319	Thank you, dear Paul Pulpland. Indeed, Urmas Reinsalu proposed and his proposal was that, he had been worded in this way, that if a member of the local government council was elected to the European Parliament, his powers as a member of the local government council would then stop. His proposal was that. Not that he can be a member of the local government council at the same time, as is the point of the current draft, but Urmas Reinsalu said that if a member of the local government council turns out to be a member of the European Parliament, his powers would stop. And when, for example, the European Parliament's mandate expires, it will recover, provided that there has been no elections in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U320	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U321	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Thomas! You emphasised the principle of equal treatment, i.e. a Member of the European Parliament should not be treated differently than a member of the Riigikogu. And I totally agree with that. But how can it be put into practice now? Suppose we have two members of the Euro Parliament: Mr X, who wishes to participate in the work of the Tallinn Council, and Mrs Y, who wishes to participate in the work of the Setomaa Vallavolikogu. Mr. X has a clear advantage here, he just gets off the plane, gets on a taxi and he's all over the council, but Mrs. Y has to get to Setomaa, and he doesn't get to Pihkva on a plane from Brussels because he doesn't go there. It doesn't work like that. So clearly, however, this principle of equal treatment cannot really be applied in practice. What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U322	Thank you, dear Leo Kunnas. There is no absolute equality. By extending the same parallel, it could be said that there is also a very large inequality in the Riigikogu, some must travel from Valga to Tallinn, and those who are in Tallinn are like privileged, right? In that sense, you could create the exact same analog. I think it's still up to the ambassador's will. And I will repeat that, of course, the contact session is a primary one and we are used to it, but I think that the positive outcome of the corona crisis, as little as they are, is actually that we have become aware of the remote session as such or a hybrid session, which is perhaps the best form yet. So I will not rule out at all that very many councils will in future hold hybrid sessions, who will be present and who will take part, for example, through Teams. And in that case, there is no problem with a Member of the European Parliament to participate, I do not know, in Antsla or wherever this municipal council meeting is. But, of course, it's up to every local government council to decide. So in this sense, I think that it is not correct to impose on the state that this is the case, right, and the hybrid session is black.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U323	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U324	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm basically going to continue the Leo Kunnas question. Yes, indeed, some ambassadors may need to arrive because time often pushes the council to a meeting, for example, in Saaremaa. I have a question. I didn't see whether this bill was, in my opinion, described in this regard, who would pay these costs. After all, it is not possible to make this council work, nor to spend the night there, nor to cater there, perhaps. What about these costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U325	Thank you, very respectable questioner. There's actually an answer to that. According to this draft, a Member of the European Parliament does not receive a fee for being a member of the Council, it is in the order of EUR 100 or whatever, but it actually has the right to receive transport costs. Of course, not for the Brussels-Tallinn route, but when he travels from Tallinn, I don't know, to Hiiumaa or Saaremaa. He has such an opportunity, these expenses will be reimbursed. And, as far as I know, the exact same principle is actually the case for members of the Riigikogu. I, too, as a member of Pärnu City Council, do not receive this council member's fee, but I would probably be entitled to reimbursement of travel expenses, although I have not, of course, used it. I do not think that Members of the European Parliament will be very likely to present these checks either, because, as I said, I think it is close, but it will fit in with the salary of a Member of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U326	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U327	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good answer to the questions! It's really very contagious when you're up in the sun. I'll try to ask in the same style. It turns out from what you're saying that this bill has been done in a hurry, and now we actually realize it is. I would have asked, indeed, that the Commission had asked for an opinion on the draft, and I would have liked to know about their answers, too, wouldn't I? Then I would have liked to know who expressed his support and who made the criticism, but, as I understand it, you do not have any information on this as a Commission waitress. You also said that you did not have the authority to mediate the views of the Member of the European Parliament, because they were not discussed by the Commission. However, we do read about it in the media, and in the media these opinions are very well present, aren't we, Mrs Kaljurand, what Mrs Ansip, a Member of the European Parliament, thinks? In addition, we know that this is the Yana Toomi Bill, with which the Reform Party came for some reason. But that's my question. Still, we'll come back to that logistics. Indeed, how can this be solved if a elected member of the Euro Parliament, who for logistical reasons does not arrive three consecutive times at a council meeting, for example, loses the seat of a council member and thereby deceives his constituents? Is that a problem for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U328	Thank you, dear questioner. This certainly is not a problem for me; it is a problem for this MEP, is it not? It is probably a second time more difficult for him to obtain a mandate if he has not really participated in council meetings for no reason. Well, that depends on every council, how and under what conditions these absences are recorded there. And the other side, which I certainly consider to be very important. When we discussed this bill and it was initiated, there was some kind of blanket torn, so who is the real author of this bill? I am very pleased to say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the initiator of this draft, with the vote being consensual. To be precise, I say two members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not take part in the vote. But those who took part in the vote all voted in favour of initiating this draft. I stress: in favour of initiation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U329	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U330	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In general, the drafting of a draft law is due to necessity or to any consequence [or there must be] reason for it. To me, it's still very confusing, which was the motive for this bill. Has it become known that the Members of the European Parliament are not sufficiently busy and feel the urge to act more, or do coalition parties not have enough people to be employed in the work of local government councils? What could have been the motive for this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U331	Thank you, dear questioner. I also pointed out once that, in fact, there is, above all, a constitutional barrier to which the EHRE repeatedly and always draws attention when it notices this problem. In this case, I have also referred to this and the Supreme Court has also pointed out that the restriction of such a passive right to vote, i.e. belonging to a council, must still be justified by very important arguments in order to do so, but in fact these arguments do not exist. So this is, in itself, a correction for errors when the European Parliament Election Act was adopted in 2002.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U332	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U333	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You were strong about what these municipalities thought. I'd like to know that side. Please explain in more detail!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U334	Thank you, dear questioner. I cannot explain in more detail what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has received. I really don't have it on my desk right now. I could send it to you, but it was half a page, and it was kind of general. Indeed, as I said, there was no very long list of reasons in favour or against. Once again: it was half a page from the community of rural municipalities and cities, of course, we did not start asking each municipality, but we asked only the community of municipalities and cities, and there were indeed statements that there were both the municipalities that supported them and the municipalities that did not support them. Again, Mr Pohlak, I have no authority to express more specifically than what they had written, because they naturally did not participate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U335	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U336	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! In my opinion, too little work is a job, and it could be rewarded. As Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, can you suddenly open the philosophy by which the legislator has forced the council, parliament or MEPs to act as "pro bono"?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U337	Thank you, dear questioner. I really can't answer that question. I think it may have been under discussion when the members of the Riigikogu were given the opportunity to belong to local government councils. Obviously, if you were to look into these materials, you could see that the subjects were up there too. I would also like to mention that in Pärnu this order of magnitude is 100 euros, as far as I know, which is the participation fee of a council member. It is quite small, compared to the salary of a member of the Riigikogu, it is still quite symbolic. So I do not think that this will have the slightest impact on the tight working of a member of the Riigikogu or a member of the European Parliament for a single municipality, even though he will not be paid for it. Yes, the correct remark is that little work is also work. But we're gonna do some things, maybe in social order. Okay, I don't think the state and government should be run in social order, but still, let's say, we're doing a lot of other work for which we really don't get paid, and we don't expect us to get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U338	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U339	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. I have to be honest with you, not that I'm usually lying, but I have to be honest with you that part of the question I've been planning was already your answer. But some nuances could be added. I'm confused about why we're doing this, about restoring some kind of equality. But then, when there were questions about whether it was decoy or really conceivable, you said that under no circumstances is it decoy, it is credible. But now we see that there are also many questions at local council level. I ask whether, for example, there have been any complaints or problems, whether this law was necessary and if you can add anything else, I am grateful.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U340	Thank you, dear questioner. There has actually been no complaint. There has also been no pressure from the members of the European Parliament elected from Estonia to deal with such a draft in the Estonian Parliament and to create these opportunities. The primary reason, I stress once again, is still the same constitutional barrier. This is, in fact, a primary issue, because the Supreme Court has said that there must be very serious arguments for restricting passive electoral rights. It's primary and basic, everything else is actually secondary. I think this was also an argument for members of the Riigikogu as to why they were also allowed to belong to local government councils. Once again: this is not our fiction, the Supreme Court has done so and expressed its position. And no constitution is on its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U341	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U342	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Usually, when some kind of draft or law is made, the goal is to improve something, to make it work more effectively and to make it more justified. But unfortunately, with this bill, we see that the result can be the opposite. The work of local government councils, as well as the quality of the work of the European Parliament, suffers when the same people belong to both councils. However, we know that they are physically so far apart that it is simply not possible to do the same work in different places at the same time. Why is this kind of thing being created?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U343	Thank you, dear questioner. I fully agree that the aim of any draft could be to make something better. But there is one other thing: a constitution that is actually more sacred. And if something is not compatible with the Constitution, it must be brought into line. I am not now judging whether this bill will make something worse or better, but understand that it is still primary and more important. Secondly, I certainly do not agree with the argument that this will worsen the work of local government councils. I may be a little wrong, but if I'm not mistaken, the total number of council members across Estonia is suddenly 1700. And now we're talking about seven people when they're all running, and if they all turn out to be elected, we're talking about seven people. How now the accession of seven will worsen the work of the council, I don't understand that well. Quite the opposite. In the case of members of the Riigikogu, I have also stressed that this creates a certain link between the parliament and the local government council in terms of debate. Last time, I commended Andres Metsoja, who is a member of the Pärnu Council, and received a fight from Andrei Korobenik that I did not mention him. Now I'm gonna name him. Andrei Korobeinik has certainly contributed to the debate at the Pärnu Council and certainly created this link between the central authority and the local government, which, I think, is important for this connection to exist. Now there is the level and dimension of the European Parliament. They are undoubtedly retired, intelligent and smart people all, without exception, all who are Members of the European Parliament. That's where the jokers can't go. They are still all serious players, so I think they have what to say, and they have what to contribute to the work of the local government council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U344	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U345	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Thomas! I now have a good opportunity to ask you, as chairman of the committee, what is the Commission's further intention in dealing with this draft. Do you have any plans to do the third reading at the spring session? And what's your plan B in case the obstruction stops it? So what's the schedule?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U346	Thank you, dear questioner. It would be very unfortunate if the obstruction prevented this bill from becoming a law. The plan is, in point one, that this draft law should enter into force on 18 October 2021, the day after the elections. Maybe it's not about this composition, it's about the next one. And indeed, the goal is for him to enter into force before the summer vacation, right in those days. Because there is one such date that the Ministry of Finance has announced, namely 18 August, when the registration of candidates begins. It is not so harshly stoned anywhere, but it is assumed that by the time candidates are registered, it must be known whether there is an option or not. If it comes into force later, it is not very appropriate to implement it in the municipal elections that are now coming in the autumn. So August 18th is one of those lines that have been drawn, i.e. when the law has entered into force, it is very correct that it will apply to the next municipal elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U347	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U348	Thank you. When I mentioned earlier that I believe that the quality of the work of local governments and of the work of the European Parliament is going down, I did not mean these Members or their quality, but simply that it is not possible to be in two places at once, they cannot participate in the work of one or another representative assembly and that it brings quality down when simply the ambassador's seat is empty. But if you talk about constitutionality and the principle of equality and all that, why not take a step forward? If the Riigikogu and the local government and the europarlamento and the local government are allowed, then we will bring together this triangle, be it a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the EuroParliament. Then there is a perfect triangle, full equality and constitutionality is guaranteed. What do you think of that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U349	Thank you, dear questioner. However, I do not support this idea because I think there is a need to draw this line somewhere, and I think that this limit is on the right spot right now. I think it's too much and it's a lot to want. I do not dare to state what the European Parliament has to say about its rules, which may or may not belong to. European Union law regulates where the European Parliament's institutions can and cannot work. I think they do not regulate national parliaments, and rather, each Member State really has the right to decide whether or not to allow Members of the European Parliament to be a Member of Parliament as well. But when you say that two jobs are problematic, you realize that if we now allowed three jobs, it would be even more problematic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U350	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U351	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U352	We can go to the negotiations. During the negotiations, all members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. The speaking time is five minutes and an additional three minutes can be requested. First I call Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U353	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U354	Three extra minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U355	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! It's always a pleasure to listen to him, when he comes up with a subject, he talks so thoroughly and nicely. Even though he must have been commanded today that he should not speak more, his inherent quality is to be and always stand up for the truth and still speak these questions. Very nice. Very nice! I also fully agree here today with Paul Puustusmaa's previous position that we have a very good chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And he would be very good, especially if he somehow tried to prevent the handling of Bill 366 in this Chamber. Now, here's what I'm saying: President Kersti Kaljulaid would certainly give him some worthy order, which is much higher than what was given to Jüri Ratas today. Because right now, what you could do right now would be really worth it. I don't care about the order. Think about what kind of people would think of you. You will be carried around Pärnu and I believe you will also wear Paides on your hands. But now, not to make that eloquence and praise speech for a very long time, let's go to this bill. Today we are dealing with the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and the Local Government Organisation Act, which has been initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Personally, of course, I have this very vague impression of why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs initiated it. Although I am also a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it did not occur to me at all that I wanted to initiate such a bill. But since Thomas did, of course, I was only willing to do so out of respect for him. When, after some break, I asked him where this initiative came from, he didn't really want to tell me, but when no one heard at the time, he said that someone in the Euro Parliament wanted to go into that local government thing. But actually, here we also get the answer, which is why we are currently processing this bill here. This is one person's wish. After all, there is a perfectly legitimate question here as to why one person wants to come here to participate in the work of the local government council. Good Thomas spoke here when I asked that there are problems with the working hours of this council, how generally, it is usually the case that council meetings take place on Thursdays, and it is such a paradoxical fact that the work of the European Parliament also ends on Thursday, so that it is loaded on a plane and driven to its homeland. Well, the fact and the irrefutable fact is, of course, that neither the big plane wants to land anywhere else, unless some terrorists are on board in Tallinn alone. But Tallinn is a small question in itself, we have a large and wide Estonia, and this visit to the local government, which has to come from Tallinn, is, I believe, a serious challenge. And actually, he's just not gonna make it to this council meeting physically. Of course, I agree with that, too, that Thomas was right, that indeed, some municipalities may have a council meeting on another day. An example was given here, I think, if I remember correctly, by Antsla's council. Look, it's even harder to get to Antslas because it's in the wrong place. Or not in the wrong place, but in a very hard-to-reach place. The worst part is that there are council meetings on Tuesday. Imagine, Tuesday. How, then, can this Member of the European Parliament, who is responsible for this draft, say, come to Antsla on Tuesday? Now it's a question. The fact is that if he gets out of there on Tuesday, on Monday, of course, he is going to work for the Euro Parliament, but he is going from there to Antsla in the evening, he is not doing a substantial job in the Euro Parliament, and I am afraid he will also lack the capacity to work in Antslas. I, of course, touched on a place like the Cupidica on my question. It's not a fictional place, it's completely there, and if everyone connects the cooking to Herbert Ting, then of course it's similar, but it's actually completely there, and it's a very respectable place. By the way, Jüri Jaakson, the Head of State, was also born in this village, and even a memorial stone has been erected for him in 1995. So there are problems here. Did they give me more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U356	Yeah, you got eight minutes left, two minutes and 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U357	But can I get that call back now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U358	Yeah, you get ten seconds back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U359	Thank you. The question then is that, in essence, the work of the council does not relate solely to voting in the council. I think a lot of people here have a councilman's experience, including me. It is necessary to participate in the work of the Council's committees and to prepare the issues that come to the discussion at the Council. I also believe that the same story is actually happening there, just like in the Riigikogu, that the main work is still being done in the Commission. It's not like we're just gonna go in there and raise our hand. There are still entirely substantive disputes. In this sense, if, now, the Member of the European Parliament were to come to the Council's committee, which is on a very different day, there would be a situation that the quality of the work of the European Parliament would be even worse. But what do we say about the work of the council committees? I admit that it may be possible to prepare these things on the plane, but if they still want to do quality work, I believe there are problems. The second thing is that, in essence, I would like to say that a potential high-quality result cannot, unfortunately, be achieved with this draft. The second problem is that I see serious human-righteous discrimination here. The question is, as Toomas said, that a Member of the European Parliament will not be paid for the performance of his duties. Well, there's no way we can afford this situation. Take, for example, the situation where the builder goes to do the shovelman's work. He will be rewarded for this, but, look, the man of the European Parliament, who is a caveman and a shovelman, he will not be paid. It doesn't matter that he... I've had my time, haven't I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U360	Yes, thank you! Next, Jack White, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U361	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable technical staff! In fact, it still seems to me that the fact that a member of the European Parliament belongs to a local council or that he is not a member of a local council does not mean that one system is in any way more democratic than the other. In fact, it is rather such a matter of organising democracy. However, if we now agree together that one system is not more democratic than the other, the decision on this issue must simply be based on other parameters, in particular on the role that a member of the respective representative body is expected to play. But every system of government and political issues at all must actually be dealt with systemically, in a complex way, ladies and gentlemen. We often don't, but we should. When we talk about role expectations for an institution or members of an institution, we still need to look at the entire government system as a whole, and it makes sense to start from the top, from the top. The role of the Head of State, which in turn depends on how the Head of State takes office. Although, in other words, I will then continue from there to do this if I want to address the question systematically, where I left off yesterday on the same question. Let me remind you a little bit of what part of the analysis I've been able to do. I have analysed Mr Kallas' claims in this regard and I have come to Lauri Vahtre, who, although somewhat critical of the specific rule of the President, was also self-critical because he himself was a member of the Constitutional Assembly and even its vice-chairman, but does not acknowledge the direct election of his President. I quote: 'If the President is'semi-powerful', he is also fit to be elected by semi-election. Not exactly with the mandate of the people, but not just with the mandate of the Riigikogu. " All right. Next, Vahtre says that the direct election of the President would, in his opinion, be popular until the very first elections and no more. And he thinks that in that case, the whole constitution should be changed, because the directly elected President should certainly have a greater power, he would no longer fit within his office. "If the Constitution does not extend these borders, everyone will be evil to everyone, with which all our precious independence may be lost," says Lauri Vahtre. Next, Vahtre writes that it is dangerous to open the topic of re-election, that is to say opening Pandora's box, and he advises instead to focus on which president would be the best. That's what I come back to at the end. But first, let's look at the election procedure. I will, of course, start by saying that I myself would prefer a country without a president. And I'm not alone in this preference either. I think that the presidents, with their glamorous receptions, as it has now evolved, and with the design of such a "new elite" or a canopy, the bestowal of decorations, the economic and some kind of loyal creative elite of political officials, are actually creating more alienation than they are generating benefits. I keep reminding you that according to our 1920 constitution, we did not have the heads of state, or president. And then another European country without a president was Switzerland, of course, except for the Soviet Union. Now, afterwards, some historians and legal scientists have found that, because we did not have a president, Estonia's political system was unbalanced, and the power of parliament and political parties became so great that due to their lack of agreement, governments changed very quickly. Indeed, during the period of validity of this 1920 constitution, the average period of government power was only nine months. Later, however, it has been considered that the reasons for the instability of these governments may have been elsewhere, again according to the same comparative analysis. You see, this presidency existed in other European countries, but it did not protect governments from instability in those countries either. For example, in France, the period of government power was even smaller than in Estonia, in some other countries the same way. If we now come to Estonia today, it would be difficult to say that the last two presidents in office would have somehow balanced the Estonian political system. However, the speed of the change of these governments is not a scourge in Estonia, as it was between the two world wars in Estonia and also in many other European countries where the position of President existed. Now, let's ask whether a new introduction of such, in fact, Estonian historical system would be possible in Estonia at the moment. Would we have such political will to put such a unique system into practice? I am truly sorry, but it seems to me that our confidence has fallen compared to our first independence and that we may not have that political will. Now I'm forced to stop [my speech]. Perhaps when I am given this opportunity in the case of some drafts with which these issues are clearly linked, I will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U362	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U363	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you all remember the time before coronavir. Then our great concern was the order of treatment, or queues, to get to a specialist. It was a social debate. And there was a great deal of dissatisfaction with the emergence of pay-per-views, which were side by side, just after the free admissions ended. The problem was that it was not possible to get time for free seats on a need-based basis, but had to be in a long line, but paid places were freely available, just to pay the money. For example, the same specialist who could not get to the appointment free of charge stopped his free reception at one o'clock, then turned the label around and started the exact same doctor's reception in the paid admission procedure. There was a lot of time. At that time, discussions arose as to how this was possible, since the doctor is still working full - time. Because it turned out that these free times were made during the main job, but those paid are usually made within a company. I remember very well this debate and the debate about what people these doctors are, the working day is eight hours long, how they can claim that they are working in two places, it is not physically possible. I think you all remember that, too. The exact same problem has been with the rescuers. The rescuers have a scheduled job, and the same thing has been more about the air, yes, let us say, internally and through the authorities, whether the rescuer is still able to do another job in parallel on these free days without resting, and how high-quality his job is when he now returns from the days he was supposed to be free, from the second job to work again. Will he be able to do his rescue work effectively and responsibly enough? Then we all discussed that they weren't wonder people. Looking at this bill, we still seem to have some kind of company with very capable wonders, even geniuses. And these are mostly those people whose entire career begins here in the Riigikogu Hall. This Riigikogu hall will not go away until the age limit has reached that it is simply no longer able to do this work. But that's not the end of it. The thing is, at the same time, they're all on councils. I can say this calmly now because I have not been a member of the council and I have not worked here in the Riigikogu during my life either. I have still been a regular employee of my entire adult working age: competing for positions, some have not received the desired posts, some have. So I dare criticize it. Now the same special society, who are those particularly capable, especially geniuses, in addition to being here in the Riigikogu at all times, wants to be actively involved in the work of the council at the same time, where it is also expected to contribute, even after they have received the europarlamento, to broaden their possibilities. In addition to this, they circle in a narrow circle at all because they are members of the Soviets, they belong to boards of large institutions, boards of directors or whatever. And when it happens to be a career over here, they move on in exactly the same circle as the leaders of the authorities or the boards of large private companies. That's how the circle works. And this circle goes in and out. This bill will make it more... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U364	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U365	This bill narrows the trajectory of this circle of individuals, which means they're going their whole lives, in turn. This is where I wonder why it has to be so that the same people are circling the same places all the time. This involves that year-on-year management does not change, makes the same mistakes and always returns to the same vagina. When new forces come, new faces, they're gonna try to change something a little bit, but because their share is bigger, who's been circling around in this circle for a lifetime, this whole cart will eventually fall back into the same vagina. I will say so much more at this point in time, at 6:30 in the early morning, I can't tell by heart who did, and in what year, the survey on this issue was carried out, that the same trend is in all public institutions. According to the survey, management in our public authorities is stagnation. This is also because these people come from this very circle, and they have not seen a different life or a different direction. If you try to get someone with a newer direction to run a big state institution, the officials will push him back into the exact same vagina and everything will go exactly the same way. That is why our public authorities, as well as ministries, have earned general resentment. Actually, they're alienated from life. I also feel the same way about our company, where I have been myself for two years now: if we are going to circle between these same places and now we are going to give the opportunity to those people who tried to walk around outside Estonia to come back here again, then things will not change. We will continue to do everything the old way, because the more important force is for older and older people, both in towns and municipalities, unfortunately also here in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U366	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U367	Yeah. These typical welcome phrases: Mr President-in-Office, a good waitress, ladies and gentlemen. As I have already stated in my round of questions, I will start with the waitress I am addressing. A good waitress is a true member of the sun's reign, and she can bear that name with honour, for she really was able to give us the first rays of sunshine this morning with her raps and meaningful answers. I truly congratulate him on that. But back to this bill. We have dealt with a number of questions right there, and one such cross-cutting issue that we addressed was how our Members of the European Parliament, who are directly affected by this law, feel about this law themselves. We always have to ask why we do this when we are dealing with legislation. Whether we are doing this because the country needs it, the people need it, I don't know, the officials need it, somebody needs it in the administration, then, I don't know, the members of the Riigikogu need it, our political parties need it, or we need the members of the European Parliament, we are talking about six members of the European Parliament here. After all, we have already learned through the media that the views of the Members of the European Parliament are also very different here. Mrs Kaljurand, for example, does not see herself at all on the council. Ansip has said that he could consider returning to Tartu. Well, he's gonna weigh, look at those apples or apple hearts eventually, see if he comes or doesn't. And what Jaak Aab has said to the press, we could interpret it the way it went through here before, so it's Yana Toomi's bill. The rapporteur said that this was the Commission's draft, but we do know how the idea is still being caught in the Commission by the wind blowing from it by the house of Stenbock. Yes, Yana Toom is allegedly the initiator of this draft, the Centre Party brought it to the government, the Reform Party agreed, and now we are discussing it here. Yana Toom's motivation we can only guess. Well, his sphere of influence, his particular electorate, is clearly slipping out of his hands. We know that old saying, "What's in your eyes, the heart." And indeed, I understand his concern, he's out there somewhere, and he's worried it won't last forever. It's a nice chair, but if he wants to keep it, he has to be in contact with his constituents. It's all perfectly understandable. And we all know what a long-distance relationship means, in both personal and political life, love can disappear. So, indeed, Yana Toom's concern is understandable. It is somewhat difficult to project into people's hearts from far away. Yeah. There will then be big words in the context of this draft about contributing to the activities of local governments with invaluable European experience. Do I have to ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U368	I should, if you want to talk again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U369	Yeah, of course I want to talk. Now I might even have to start talking at the same pace as the waitress did.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U370	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U371	Okay. Thank you. This may be the case, but I'd rather see this kind of self-interest show up very strongly here. Not everyone needs it, has more independent members of the European Parliament and is more dependent, but the practice is a criterion of truth, and if the Centre Party and the Reform Party sail through the back wind of this draft, we will be able to see who will remain on the second chair and who will still be a decoy duck after the autumn local elections. Allar Jõks has said that the MEPs' dessant to local government councils testifies to the short bench of political parties. This is clearly where we all have to look towards the Centre Party and the Reform Party. After all, this short bench manifests itself in all its nudity when we look at the composition of the current government, where a small group of certain pillow club was parked on the one hand, and on the other hand, completely unknown officials, nice people, some, were brought as ministers, but that is all. It's just the waitresses of the stamp sentences, the powerless creatuses, who mostly read the texts that their sub-officers have rolled out. So the reason for the short bench is clearly the reason why we are discussing this bill here and why it was born in this form. But since we have entered the local election cycle, it is understandable that it is now in a hurry. The sittings of the Riigikogu end, and therefore the members of the European Parliament need to be legalised for some, not all, because not all of them need to legalize the second chair. And there has been a lot of talk here about the problems that this could lead to, which may arise in the case of these Members of the European Parliament. Unfortunately, I have no time, otherwise I would also talk about my experience in the Tallinn Council. But one thing I would like to say, and that is that when we talk about work on the council, we are not only talking about sittings, but we are also talking about the work of committees. And I already feel that this is difficult even if I am here in Tallinn and attend the Tallinn Council. We have committee sessions on Wednesday, which I rarely get into, because we also have a very busy working day here on Wednesday and it is simply not possible to be in two places at once in time. It has not been dealt with, but it is clearly relevant to the Members of the European Parliament, which will be an obstacle. But we can see how this law will work in real life, who will come to another chair, who will not come, who will be able to manage logistics, who will not, who will be able to assert themselves to the hearts of the local people, who will not, who will win, who will remain dragged. Do local governments get any added value or do they not? We'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U372	Thank you. Before we can proceed with the negotiations, we have a procedural question. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U373	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I have to apologize to the Riigikogu because I had to stay out of the first part of the session for family reasons and I could only monitor the transmission on the web in part. But I would now give you the opportunity to give me a longer answer on the procedural questions that have been asked during today's and yesterday's sitting, and on the answers they have received, so that I have an overview of whether these are the questions I wanted to ask, have already been asked and have they also received a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U374	You don't have to apologize, free mandate. And it's been a long trial. I don't remember all the procedural questions. Meanwhile, one ambassador had gathered more than 30 of them. They have not revolved around the main issues of whether it has been correct to convene an additional sitting, how long the speeches may be, what the content of the speeches is, whether they are specific to the lines, etc. But maybe I wouldn't even get into it anymore. If you have a specific procedural question, I can answer that question. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U375	Thank you, Mr President. Good listeners! It is a pity that today only one objective has been introduced to amend the Local Government Organisation Act: to do one small thing, the only aim of which is to increase the yield of votes in the two government departments with falling support, who are facing serious setbacks in Tallinn, Tartu and Ida-Viru County in the local government elections. We might as well call this bill 389 SE a draft called Yana Toom or a plan for Paet. Today's coalition parties are demonstrating a super-claw attitude towards local actors and everyone else who, in rural governments and cities, face real COKS deficits and low budgets every day and have repeatedly proposed to the government how and what could be redeployed. But instead of taking care of real things, politically important things are being put in order for the party office of the Reform Party and the Central Party for the autumn elections. Let the officers see for themselves how they can handle it. The real problems that urgently need to be solved are with the lap and back. During the past year, there was confusion with the Teams meetings. In one municipality, during the COVID restrictions in force in the country, all meetings were held with remote participation, but 20 kilometres away from the neighbors, the Chairman of the Council, like iron, chopped down iron that remote meetings in the local government council are illegal, all decisions taken at remote sessions are null and void, and in a situation where some of the members of the council were quarantined, property was transferred to the municipality at a physical session and other hogs were carried out without interruption. There are real, real problems in local governments, such as audit committees. In many municipalities, the good practice of electing a representative of the opposition as chairman of the audit committee is not followed, and in many fewer cases the audit committee allows a majority for opposition ambassadors. The heads of the municipalities are also looking forward to changing the system of allocation of funds for tasks and their execution. There will be more, more and more, but there will be no funding. Look for yourself, trim, assemble, shut down the local school. The difference between the income base of Tallinn and the smallest rural municipality is 50 times in Estonia. But the tasks, the standards, the bar is the same. The current system of the Equalisation Fund is not enough. The Estonian state is rudely leaning towards Tallinn today and rural governments need more support than we want to ensure that life is preserved in every corner of Estonia. As a consequence of COVID's involvement and teleworking going to the masses, new people have moved and are moving to rural areas for more than 30 years. Grassing farms and old houses are being cleaned up, the villages are seeing children again, even on the outskirts. There are all the prerequisites for Estonia to be more evenly covered by the population once again. But for this to happen, it is vital to urgently increase the decision-making power and financial capacity of local authorities. I sincerely hope, good members of the Reform Party and the Centre Party, if you have now made a vital move for the local elections, do not let the rest of the COKS be modernised. Take the law now, fix it, and, most importantly, change the financing system for the benefit of rural governments at Tallinn's expense! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U376	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U377	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, Colleagues! As I have already drafted my question, it is the decoy duck bill. As my penguin author said, this bill clearly shows that our so-called large political parties, parties with great experience of government, are actually short of the people to be sent to the fire to be sent to take votes in the competition. Actually, it's all a lame story. In fact, having been a member of the local council for a relatively short time, I quickly realized that if you want to work seriously in the Riigikogu, you will not have the energy, the time and the thoughts to participate equally in the local government. It's just not possible. Here are the logistical problems, here are the problems of processing information, here are the problems of communicating with your political groupmates (i mean the political parties of the local government), here is exactly what my penguinary once again said, who has the experience of the Tallinn Council: it is not possible to work with all the tension, with the commitment to working in local government committees and here committees. It's just not possible. You can make big words, you can talk about equal treatment, you can talk about not getting paid and not covering these costs more than maybe transport costs. All of this is, in fact, a smokescreen to give faithful party soldiers the opportunity to operate on several fronts and maintain the party's main line in order to send people controlled, led and trusted to different battles. This is the name of this bill, not that someone is treated equally and there is no problem, and we have already tried to reconcile the roles of a member of the Riigikogu with a member of the local government council. Yes, we are, and that doesn't justify it. That doesn't justify it. This justifies itself in the case of Toomas Kivimägi, who has been a limehead, who has been a mayor, who knows Pärnu, who lives in Pärnu and has never come out of this field of activity. But that doesn't justify it for people like me, who have been living in Tallinn for 50 years. I am born and raised in Pärnu, but I am not so familiar, I will never be as familiar with Pärnu's problems as those who are still quite life-sick, not to mention many other places. Well, let's imagine I'm going to be elected to the council of Narva. Well, what do I know about Narva when I go to Narva, how I work there on these council committees? This is not really a serious story. So once again, it's the decoy duck bill and it's fair to call it that. Got it. The Estonian electoral system is such that well-known people take votes. The Estonian electorate is not getting worse enough. This is not the case only in Estonia. After all, we can see the same in principle even in large countries like France, where well-known politicians throughout the country are also involved in local politics. But obviously, this is about going to the voter a match to reward the voter... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U378	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U379	... these celebrities with their voices. Of course, we know and feel a little human nature. The further away from the center, the more exciting it seems from the TV screen, the radio broadcast, the newspaper columns, the internet-known face when it comes to a small place. I got to talk to him too, I got to shake his hand too, a really nice guy or a nice woman was, and it was fun, and it was fun, and so on. But that's not really what you're supposed to be doing in the local government. It's all a political circus, theater. That is why I am extremely skeptical. As far as the Members of the European Parliament are concerned. How do we reconcile logistically there? Time is not suspended or redeployable. On Thursday there will be council meetings in a large number of local governments. On Thursday, the europarlamento will finish half a day's work. It is not possible to get from Brussels or Strasbourg to Tallinn and it is not possible to get from here to Saaremaa, Hiiumaa, even not as close as Pärnu, not even as close as Kose. It all takes time. Transfers, redeployments. Again, the human psyche is complicated in this sense, after all, that when I come from Brussels, I have these problems, I have these reports, I have these drafts, I have these debates, I have these group meetings and discussions that are all in my head. Then I come up here and I'm up to my neck and up to my ears in the problems of local government, I start messing with the school bounty, some kind of heat line, or any other kind of local theme around intrigue, finance, procurement and everything else. Detailed planning, corrupt connections, interest groups. There's no point in throwing shit in each other's eyes. We understand that this is not the way it is being presented again. It's not like that. That is why I am extremely skeptical. Of course, it will be pushed through, it will be decided. Yana Toom is interested in this, Andrus Ansip is interested in it, and our Jaak Madison won't turn it down either. Of course, it'll work. But the real effect that these people, with their international experience, would raise the quality of local government is not coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U380	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U381	Thank you very much, manager. Dear colleagues, I'm glad to see you here, Thomas. You've endured bravely, you're like a party's hardware listening here, you can say that, even a bit of a complaining story. But what's to deny, let's be honest, we listened to Marti now, and Mart brought out an important nuance that we have to take into account here. This is that the Conservative Party is indeed sceptical about this law. We're not blue-eyed. We know what's going on. We know what's going on. We know why it's happening. And our skepticism doesn't take this thing away and it doesn't lead anywhere. Let us begin by saying that this so-called two-chair law, which came to us in its own time, has already provoked very serious disputes in society. These disputes aren't lost, they're still gone, they're completely there, and every now and then they're like plants growing out of society again. They ask why we have a series of people who are grooms at every wedding, dead at every funeral, why we don't give people the chance to develop, to bring our own people out. This is in a situation where our country's system is built autonomously, in such a way that one is a state, the other is a local government. But we're still trying to be [otherwise]. I am very surprised that no one has come up with the wise idea that we could have the law of three chairs, that a member of the Riigikogu would also be a member of the Euro Parliament and also a member of the local government. But why not? Well, that's nice in itself. But you see, it hasn't come yet. Let us recall what has happened in our history. If at the beginning of the decade, 2013, 2014 or 2015, this topic was very hot in society, then, of course, the first thought arose that suddenly such a vision, when a person sits on seventeen chairs at once, is contrary to the Constitution. Indeed, there were very strong debates that ended up, as we know, in the Riigikogu. There was also Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis to say his word. First of all, the question of whether this is even compatible with the Constitution. Then, in principle, it was found that we could not deal with the Constitution so narrowly. Such a situation in nature, where a member of the Riigikogu may belong to a local government council, is not fundamentally contrary to the Constitution when a political decision is made. Perhaps, in fact, where that dispute came to at the time: still, it is up to us, what we want to do, how we want to rule our country, how many opportunities we want to give people. At the time Ülle Madise passed on his opinion to the Riigikogu. I liked the final conclusion that had been made at the time, 2013, 2014. This summary was about that, if a clear distinction is to be made between local community and national leaders, appropriate restrictions on application should be considered. No one was involved, they were allowed to go because it was the expectation and hope of the circles that were ruling at the time. It wasn't over yet. It took a few years, like I said, it's like a plant, a few years went by, it just surfaced again. At the time, EKRE did not exist strongly in politics, but there were others who tried to do so. Toomas also remembers that the Riigikogu was very strongly in 2018 at the Constitutional Committee and at the Riigikogu at the initiative of the then Free Party, the opinion of the people was discussed. I can't remember how many thousand of these signatures were. They came with the same question. I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U382	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U383	They came up with the same idea of how. Good, dear Riigikoguists! Stop that bull! Let people make different choices! Let us separate the two phenomena, the local government and the state, from each other and let the people get there! At the time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Riigikogu, was also up a lot, but again, nothing changed. As in 2013, 2014, it was also 2018 exactly the same. It was found that the law of the two chairs was good and that the law of the two chairs had to pass, although opposition to it was very acute on a social level. It was still stressed in many ways that the work of the Riigikogu must be taken seriously, the work of local government must be taken seriously, it is difficult to combine them. The work of a Member of the European Parliament is now being introduced. As Mart said, we have our own people who maybe see it relatively positively, but well, that's not good. It's not a good signal to society. Now, taking the position of the EKRE, it has been said that this scepticism is on our side. But it is a matter of nature how much political power we have to implement this scepticism and to meet the expectations and hopes of the people. It's hard to say. But in any case, it is clear that such a bill, by its very nature, will in today's way and in the form of a sense of justice for the people. People's expectations are different. So let us seriously consider whether we want to support it and even more divide society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U384	Thank you. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U385	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you in your offices, and you have endured with us beautifully until the early morning hours. I think it is quite appropriate to remind people who have joined us at an early hour on the Internet, which we are talking about here at all. We are discussing a bill called the Act amending the European Parliament Election Act and the Local Government Organisation Act (the participation of a Member of the European Parliament in the work of the local government council), and it bears the number 389. In order for our good viewers and listeners to be brief about what we are talking about here, I will briefly report the original text of the draft, then we will all be well in the same information field. The draft removes the restrictions that MEPs may not participate in the work of municipal and urban councils. The bill gives them the opportunity to participate in organising the life of the local government of their place of residence. The amendments harmonise the requirements for membership of the council applicable to members of the European Parliament with the applicable rules applicable to members of the Riigikogu. Granting members of the European Parliament the right to belong to local government councils does not make membership of the council mandatory for members of the parliament. Members of the European Parliament can decide whether or not they wish to reconcile Parliament's and the councillor's mandates. Let's be honest, there's been a word like "decoon duck" in this hall a number of times. I personally do not like the word, I would call them decoy ambassadors, for example, or the decoy ambassadors of the European Parliament, something like that sounds better. True, we have the law of two chairs, and I must say that I have never been a fan of this law when I am talking about the law of two chairs. Speaking of the fact that the members of the parliament participate in the work of the councils, and here the rapporteur also mentioned that there are more than 40 members of the Riigikogu performing their duties at the council, there is another logic. We can talk, it has also sounded in this Chamber, that a member of the Riigikogu takes this knowledge from this House to the councils and through it may increase the quality of the council meetings and improve the flow of information. You might even agree with that to some extent. However, in the case of this decoy ambassador or the decoy ambassador of the European Parliament, it is very difficult for me to see any benefits specifically for the local government and the council. This is where we come to the point that, in fact, today we are discussing a bill that we are essentially doing for seven people. Quite a lot of different views have already been heard in the hall today. All that remains is to accept that, in fact, the bench of certain political parties is shortening at such a rate that any party member still standing and running must try to get in front of the propaganda cart and to stand for it. In that sense, I do not think that this is a sensible draft. The various debates in this Chamber have repeatedly been through the fact that it is not actually possible to reasonably reconcile these works with those of the Members of the European Parliament, because they simply do not physically reach the councils from these sittings. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U386	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U387	In essence, if this law is passed and the law becomes, we will create an opportunity or make it legitimate to apply for decoy ambassadors, they will be able to walk honestly in front of their voters in elections and say yes, I will definitely come to the local government when I am elected and I will bet on it. But I'm pretty sure we won't see more than two members in councils after this, or if we do, only for a very short time. In fact, the mandate is quite quickly made for the next person to go to the council. We can see that these votes were brought in, but the substantial work of the council, I don't think we'll see there. So, to sum up, I have to say that I don't see that it makes any sense. If there is any way to understand the law of the two chairs previously spoken of, there is really some logic that we, as members of the Riigikogu, are taking this quality and some knowledge to the level of the councils, it is very difficult for me to see it in this draft decoy euro ambassadors. Thank you all for your attention. I'm waiting for all my good colleagues in the hall. Morning's early, the weather's beautiful, people doing outdoor sports, running, so a great day is about to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U388	Thank you very much. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U389	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Who's awake, who's behind the screen, who's nice to see in the hall. Indeed, the time has come for many to wake up at this hour. So once again, good morning. We are currently debating the participation of 389 Members of the European Parliament in the work of the local government council. I've been thinking about this law pretty seriously, and I've been asking questions here. Indeed, I do not understand why this law is needed. What was the purpose of this law, or what added value does it bring to society? I don't understand. Is there so little work in the European Parliament that people should necessarily try to work somewhere else? I don't know. If there is no corona and a normal rhythm of work is restored, I find it very difficult to believe that their contribution on the ground is significant. I understand that Estonia is a small country, the bench is quite short. But is it so short that we are so desperate that we must use decoy ducks at all costs? What is its purpose? The [in the explanation letter] is an opinion: "The question has been raised as to whether Members of the European Parliament can contribute sufficiently to the work of the Council and its committees when they become members of the Council, given that their main activities are largely outside their home territory. It has also been pointed out that there are categories of persons who are allowed to stand as candidates but then have to make a choice, other than MEPs, and whether the issue should not be resolved in a holistic way. " I agree very much with this latter, indeed, the subject is wider. We need to discuss the whole thing. Then why do we still need this law? After all, we also know the members of the Riigikogu who find it difficult to participate in the work of local government, many have given up. Then why would they still run again? Who benefits from sitting on several chairs like this? In my opinion, if you want to do everything, you can't really do anything. Maybe in Tallinn, maybe in Pärnu it's possible. But where I'm from, I don't think I can make the most of it. Finally, for me, the question of who needs this law remains very, very much. Is this target group big enough for us to deal with this law? Why is this law still needed? I don't understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U390	Thank you very much. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Anti Polandmets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U391	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I had a great rooster at home once, six months ago. Always could wake up with a rooster song when the sun rose. But since I live in a nature reserve with a lot of knuckles, the rooster went the most disappearing way. But in any case, I'm very happy that you've made such good speeches. I would say that I have not seen such close and meaningful parliamentary work in a long time. I have discovered major shortcomings in the work of the committees, because I have been able to listen carefully today to the rapporteurs of the committees and it is clear that there has been overactive action. To the current President, I would like to applaud the fact that the night sitting is very damaging to health. I think a lot of people are losing several pounds this weekend, and it's more of a health effect. I'm not changing positions here. When I'm in opposition or coalition, I've always praised night sessions, and I could use a few night sessions. To the heart of the matter. The main thing is that someone wants to sit in two chairs. Today's pound was that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs refused to reveal to us the secret of who are the ones who want to sit in two chairs. It turned out to be the biggest secret. I guess you'll have to start an independent job and find out who caused this big secret. Was it Yana Toom who wanted to go to Narva City Council? Or was it Jaak Madison who misses Viljandi? Or was it Riho Terras who misses his old hometown Jõhvi? I don't know. Friends, send them a message quickly to finally determine what their opinion is. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said that no-no, that we must not know, that everything must be universal, that no ambassador's opinion is important. In my opinion, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs went completely wrong here. The first argument is a technical argument. What are the European Parliament's agendas now, though, is there hope that they will arrive, or is it one of Yana Toomi's hocus-pocus? I don't know what's going on. The first thing is a technical question. How can Yana Toom get to Narva if the flight plans don't match, there's a couple more hours to go? Then I could already say that it's unthinkable and it's bullshit or it's only meant for one of Tallinn's ambassadors. So the homework of the Commission is completely unfinished and the big secret that the chairman of the committee is hiding, I intend to find out with a sociological survey from our good ambassadors. There is also a concern in Brussels that Parliament is screening between Strasbourg and Brussels. Does that make any sense? It's an eternal dispute. The French are still trying to pull the blanket on themselves. There is an endless dispute where Parliament should be. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U392	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U393	Three, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U394	Three. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U395	The question is whether to save EUR 100 million a year and to close the halls between Strasbourg and Brussels. Now that's a question. That's why a little thought exercise for you. If, for some general reason, the ambassadors tend to get closer to the people, at least in their opinion, wouldn't it be time to do something like in Brussels, one departure session per year in Võru or one departure session per year in Narva or Jõhvi? Why not? We're all Tallinn-centred. Perhaps in the construction of Süku in Tartu we should foresee a proper 101-seat hall and we would be much more regional or respect South Estonia? Tallinn would not tear all institutions under its own stomach. And what would that cost us? Only a bit of architect's fingering so that we have a 101-appropriate hall to show that Tartu is important, as important as Tallinn. Or would it be Võru? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U396	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Henn Põljaala. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U397	I'll have three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U398	Only three, then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U399	Maybe more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U400	Oh, extra time, got it. I thought only three. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U401	Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber! Honourable Chairman! Honourable staff! Dear people of Estonia! It is my pleasure to welcome you early in the morning, a few minutes after six o'clock, when the sun is rising and gilding our beautiful Fatherland. It makes me so anxious to sing: "Oh, how beautiful the morning is! Oh, it's such a beautiful day! " And it really comes from the heart. But the Riigikogu is not a place to sing; the Riigikogu is a place to do work. At the moment, we are dealing with a really important issue. In particular, how to reconcile and whether to reconcile the work of Members of the European Parliament and local authorities. This is, of course, a rather complex issue, because it can be given a number of pros and cons. But this is also a topic where you can find very direct parallels between the work of the Riigikogu and the work of local government. There have been quite different perceptions of this, there have been quite different periods of time when there is an absolute, radically different approach to this issue, and not just from a political point of view, but also from a legal point of view. Until autumn 2005, members of the Riigikogu were able to stand as a candidate in local government elections and, if elected, also to work in councils. But the argument as to whether it was still correct and acceptable and whether these mandates could be reconciled continued. In March 2002, the Riigikogu established a rule that since the 2005 local elections, a member of the Riigikogu can no longer be a member of the local government council. And so it was. Three years later, in May 2005, the Riigikogu reversed this decision and was allowed to participate again. I cannot say exactly whether the same composition had changed in the Riigikogu, but President Rüütel did not declare this law. Because, in his view, the simultaneous exercise of the mandate of the Riigikogu and the local council is not in accordance with the Constitution. Her position was also supported by Chancellor Hillar Teder, I remember. The matter went back to the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu passed the law again without amendment. As usual, this matter finally reached the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court reached a negative position on the reconciliation of mandates. In short, the Supreme Court found that the law on two chairs is against the Constitution. It also ties very strongly with today's topic, because the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi, claimed that if the possibility of being in the European Parliament and local government is now combined, this is a constitutional issue and the situation must also be brought into line with it in the Constitution. But, as we can see, the Supreme Court and the Riigikogu have, in fact, viewed the same issue throughout the ages in absolutely different ways. It has been said once about one thing that it is constitutional and that it is not. When the members of the Riigikogu were not allowed to be in the local government, a very strange and funny situation arose. Because, for example, members of the Riigikogu took part in the elections in Tallinn, being so-called decoy ducks. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. In Tallinn, the Council of 1999 was such that 53 out of 79 city council members were alternate members, who in fact no one had chosen to do so. There was this so-called puppet council. In 2013, 93 members of the Riigikogu were nominated, 60 of whom were elected, but they did not go there. The law of the two chairs was then passed, in which case the Supreme Court found that it now complies with the Constitution. The right number of local governments complained about the situation in the Supreme Court, I remember, Vormsi was one and there was a whole range of them. As I said, this time the Supreme Court found it compatible with the Constitution. So it's pretty weird, as our constitution still allows us to stretch according to some sort of... I can't tell you now, I don't want to blame the judges of state for politicism, but according to the compositions of different governments and the Riigikogu, it turns out that the Constitution is a stretch. The question now is that, in fact, no government has called for this law, nor have the Members of our European Parliament really shown any interest in it so that they can also be in the local government. So let's just leave these decoy ducks somewhere in the past and leave this bill in the drawer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U402	Thanks! Now I ask Riigikogu to speak to Riho Breivel.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U403	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U404	Yes, please! Eight minutes now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U405	Okay. Why are we here at the moment, and why am I standing in this chair? It's still about defending democracy. Democracy has great power, and that is why we have come here to the Riigikogu to stand up for democracy. That is why we are also members of the EKRE in order to be maximum defenders of democracy, so that no side effect can take away what we have fought for to free Estonia. What we are looking at now is [the draft] 389 amending the European Parliament Election Act and the Local Government Organisation Act (the participation of a Member of the European Parliament in the work of the local government council). What does that mean? This means that if we adopt it as a law, MEPs can come and take part in the work of local government if they are elected there. But the psychology of a person is once that if someone is in the picture and if he is a small part of a large system such as europarlamento, then it is hoped that he will be able to do more in the ranks of the local government than any other person. But he really can't. He can't do it because his burden is something else. I also strongly oppose that members of the Riigikogu have been elected to local governments. We can see it in this hall. The hall's empty now. Of course, they're not at municipal meetings right now, everyone who's missing here. But who knows, maybe? Because we often see that somewhere in Pärnu, Põlva, Valga, wherever there are meetings in local governments, our ambassadors are present and the chairs are empty. They are paid here by the taxpayer to work in the Riigikogu, they are not paid here to travel to their home and to visit the council to exhibit themselves, often to exhibit themselves. Of course, they are also capable and able to make good decisions, but by doing so they again take away the opportunity to make decisions from people who are also capable, who would also be able to become ambassadors of the Riigikogu, the ambassadors of the European Parliament. If we restrict this possibility, then we will only increase the problems of democracy. Finally, we really go to the point that one person is an ambassador to the European Parliament, an ambassador to the Riigikogu and also an ambassador to the local government. Then we're gonna put him up as a parish elder, and we're gonna be able to handle one person, that's all we need. No, we definitely can't do that, we have to stand up to that. We are certainly opposed to that today. At least I'm against it becoming a law like this. We all have the right to have an opinion. My opinion is that the Riigikogu, the local government, the Euro-Parliament ambassador, is only a member of one representative organisation and does maximum of its work there. To the maximum, I stress. You can only do maximum if you have made a commitment and you fulfil that obligation to the fullest, instead of taking on additional responsibilities, and then with these additional responsibilities, you try to exhibit yourself somehow. To a large extent, it is our group that opposes this, as today's speeches show. From different angles, very precisely how this thing has to be done is reflected. Thank you to everyone who thinks the way we think, even though I'm not saying it's always the right thing to do. But it's rational. We support the victory of democracy in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U406	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U407	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U408	Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U409	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, As an introduction, I would like to say first of all that I am extremely proud of the political group of my party. What industrious, talented, eloquent company, and tough! We come to this current item. I remember when we discussed the two chairs in the previous composition. It has to be said that a very large number of these issues and all this controversy were very similar to what we are now talking about in this draft: whether the two agencies can be reconciled, how difficult it is, whether it brings more quality or whether it leads to quality. Of course, there was a lot of talk about whether the Constitution requires one way or the other, whether it allows or forbids. All those arguments went through. Our party did not support the law of two chairs. Our party's position was that there were two or three reasons. The first is undoubtedly the question of such a good political culture. We all understand that well-known national political names are undoubtedly good voters in local elections. But they take oxygen away from local politicians and actually inhibit the growth of fresh blood in politics. It's perfectly clear. Secondly, there was a clear concern about the emergence of the so-called "vertical power." In some ways, today's debate also confirms that the vertical weight of power has materialised. All these arguments, as has been said now, that it is very good if Toompea's ambassador, especially if he is in the coalition of power, is represented in Pärnu or in another council of Tartu or Tallinn, that it is still possible to take this information and wisdom of Toompea's policy to local governments, in fact, to talk about it around the corner is that it is the vertical of power that the life of the local government is connected by the umbilical cord to the life of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, and we thought so already in the previous Riigikogu, this does not benefit from the principle of autonomy in organising local life, which we actually have in Estonia in the case of local governments in the Constitution. An argument as to whether the Constitution permits or prohibits. Well, I find it difficult to take this seriously, and it seems to me that today's Commission waitress herself does not believe that the Constitution says that we have to do this. In my opinion, the Supreme Court has made a couple of decisions on this subject, and the very simple and brief summary of these decisions is that it is the discretion of the Riigikogu as to how we decide. Let's decide that, then it's so right, or let's decide the other way around, it's a political choice. This is not a constitutional order or a prohibition to do one way or the other. In the previous composition, a political choice was made to allow the law of two chairs. In the current composition, a bill is being processed, which makes the law of the three chairs. Basically, the Constitution does not tell us that we have to do this and does not say that we must not do this. It is a matter of political choice. Is this political choice good or bad? Now we're gonna get to that kind of piquantity. Nearly half of the composition of the Riigikogu was represented in local governments. There are 79 local government councils in Estonia. What did they tell us? 40.47 Members of the Riigikogu. It is hardly the case that there is one representative of the Riigikogu in every municipality. In fact, the Tallinn Council is full of members of the Riigikogu, the Tartu Council is full of members of the Riigikogu and then with a finger here and there are fewer of them in the third place. He is, after all, a phenomenon of large local councils. So in this sense, how much of this quality is being transferred to a smaller municipality of Estonia is, like, a little bit, such a fine talk to it. But 47 members of the Riigikogu to 79 local governments, well, that's some sort of statistical number. Seven Members of the European Parliament, half of whom do not want or have stated that they are not interested in this, in fact, we are talking about the law that is being done for people who read on the fingers of one hand. You could do that. All kinds of laws must be made, but they must be veiled behind the story that the Constitution requires us to do so, or they must be veiled behind the story that now there is a huge quality in local governments as a result, it cannot be taken seriously. But for that, I brought this important book. Our main objective today is to prevent a move towards a totalitarian society, towards a monitoring society. This is also very relevant to this item. What do we see in the European Union, which we see under the great leadership of the European Parliament? We see slipping into a totalitarian mindset, where freedom of expression is being restricted, freedom of mind is being restricted. The European Union also loves a large monitoring society. So in this context, it is still necessary to recall what our party stands for. Our party stands for freedom. Our party stands for Estonia's sovereignty. Our party stands for democracy, including direct democracy. So the warning examples of this totalitarian dystopia are not just just fantasies of fear, but they really knock on our door and seriously. That is why we are describing what this situation could be like. "The Ministry of Truth in the New Language of Tõmin was strikingly different from everything else that could be seen. It was a huge pyramid building made of white concrete, rising asthesthically to a height of 300 metres. From where Winston was standing, the eye on the white wall was still explaining in an elegant letter the three slogans of the party: "WAR IS PEACE, FREENESS IS DISGUISIVE, UNKNOWN IS POWER." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U410	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Reuben Kaalepi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U411	Dear Riigikogu! Indeed, it is very pleasant to spend this beautiful golden morning here in a very pleasant company and to discuss the issues that are important for our country and our people at length and in substance. This draft, which we are currently discussing, concerns the main issues and issues of being both the European Parliament and the local authorities' ambassadors. Of course, our party also proposes to reject this bill. However, in view of the subject matter of this draft, I think it would be necessary to take a little look at the broader picture and also the historical background on the issue of the principles of loyalty of Members of the European Parliament. In the same way, when an ambassador belongs to both the europarlamento and the local council, there is a risk of some kind of loyalty conflict. But on the other hand, this issue is wider because a great deal has been discussed as to whether the Member of the European Parliament is primarily loyal to the European Union as a supranational institution, or whether he is still there to represent his country and his people. In this dispute there are very interesting parallels with one of the earlier supranational empires, of which Estonia also had an occupied state, and the Estonian people had an accident to be part of. In order to illustrate this example, I found a very interesting book, which is The People's Envoy's Manual, published in 1959 in occupied Estonia. This illustrates quite interestingly how such an actuating democracy operates in such a totalitarian empire. I read on page 93: "Although collegiality is the main method of the activities of the Executive Committee, and besides sittings, the working practices of the Executive Committee are also familiar with other forms of collegial work, such as meetings and meetings of members of the Executive Committee, the Heads of Departments and active meetings and meetings in which the preparation of meetings, the execution of decisions and other working matters are discussed, this does not preclude sole management of non-essential issues. V.I.Lenin repeatedly stressed the need to enforce the strictest responsibility in executive functions so that the collective work process would not be left without firm leadership, without the precise determination of the responsibility of the management staff, without the strictest repetition created by the unity of will of the management staff." Now, between me and you, this paragraph clearly illustrates how the apparent democratic principle is, in fact, subordinated to a deeper principle in such a society, which is ideological continuity with the ideology of this ruling regime. If you bring this into the context of the European Parliament, or of the European Commission, for example, it is also clear from the principles of liberal democratic ideology that these 'double loyalties', which are, for example, loyalty to their nationalities for this ideological regime, cannot be tolerated. I'm asking for an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U412	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U413	It also follows from this well-known knowledge that, for example, if the word 'democratic' is included in the country's name, it is generally far from democracy. There are exceptions, of course. For example, if you look at the documents of the Republic of Estonia's creative phase, including the Estonian manifesto of independence, the general wording used for the designation of this country was also "Estonian Democratic Republic," although this additional complement was abandoned quite quickly. But I also read here the following paragraph, which illustrates it even more clearly: "This is an important place for sole control. While sole management enables the determination of specific arrangements and responsibilities in the executive functions and the operational resolution of issues, its disadvantage is that individual decisions are often one-sided, sometimes even incorrect. In order to ensure collegiality in the decision-making of key issues and strict individual responsibility in the execution of decisions and in the resolution of non-essential elements, these two governance methods are combined in the work of the executive committees of the Councils. V.I.Lenin described this co-ordination of collegiate and sole management in the activities of the Soviet administration as follows: collective discussion, but personal responsibility." I will now comment on this paragraph. This is a very clear bolshevik principle of how sole management must ensure that the result of a seemingly democratic process is exactly what has been written out from somewhere above. While the Soviet Empire was a party with this supreme determination, in today's liberal democratic regimes, this is a little more complicated because, as a rule, in order to act even better, there is always a multi-party system in these countries, including the European Union. But there are always some rules on a deeper level that this multi-party system must not deviate from. It is precisely for this reason that, in the case of national political parties in the Western countries too, there is very often talk of the need to establish a sanitary order in order that these ideas, the political forces whose message does not coincide with this ideological agenda to which all parties must submit, are not represented. For my part, I am now finishing this speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U414	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair, Leo Kunnas, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U415	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U416	Of course, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U417	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, However, as this draft does not concern the financial sector, it is not possible for me to continue my report which has not been completed. Since we are now dealing with parliamentaryism and democracy, it is quite appropriate for me to talk about issues such as road roller and obstructionism, and also about our specific, current obstruction. What is the reason why I support this obstruction myself? 366 SE, this mega database, where basically one large database, brings together all kinds of biometric data from, for example, frame military personnel, police officers, ordinary people and criminals, the possession of such a database is simply a security risk. We may wonder what will happen if this database falls into the hands of individuals or organisations who are not friendly to our country but, on the contrary, are hostile. This damage can be immeasurable. That's why I support this obstruction. But if you look at it, soon we'll have 30 years of independence. The obstructions have not been very successful so far, and all coalitions have gone over the opposition, if only they wanted to do so, essentially quite simply by road roll. There are several reasons for this that I have analyzed. But I'm not going to talk about them because I prefer to keep these reasons to myself. But now I'm going to deal with this obstruction in technical detail and mathematically, what's going on and going on and what we're going to do. The current session with the extension session will last 24 hours. It started yesterday at 2:00 and lasts until 2:00 today. There was supposed to be an initial 40-hour session on the weekend, an emergency session that would have taken a total of 64 hours. It turned into two sessions on Saturday and Sunday, one with a duration of 12 hours and another with a duration of 23 hours, which makes a total of 59 hours for this cycle, which is intended for the end of this week to complete this agenda. To carry out the obstruction, or delay the same roller, it is not possible to do so with a twig, a piece of wood, or a log. Everyone's tried that. Only pioneer barriers help here, I'd say. Now I'm talking a little bit about time and mathematically speaking about the barriers we've already implemented and implemented. We'll see, it's almost seven in the morning. How many hours have we spent? Count those hours! The question is how many hours are left until 2:00, not how much we have spent. Maybe we could do some math. I begin by saying that all the drafts together contain 105 amendments. If you take a break for each proposal, it'll be 105 times 10 minutes. If we divide the results into hours, we get 17 and a half hours, that's just breaks. Not all breaks, but only breaks for amendments, breaks for interruptions, for example, do not belong here. Let's keep going. We've got other readings all through 12. 12 second readings. We have 19 members in the group, and each member can give an eight-minute speech. That's a little over 30 hours of clean time. There are no questions. We also have a development plan, an education development plan. It's not included here. There are no procedural questions that our colleague, Kalle Grünthal alone, has done... We could take the time he's made. Maybe everything I listed, even without these additions, will do a total of 47 hours. At this stage, we are at the point that the anti-tank ditch is essentially ahead of the road roller, the road roller has already sailed into the anti-tank ditch, it cannot be stopped anymore. Perhaps further sessions will be needed in order to move on to the agenda. Therefore, I have good recommendations for respected coalition ambassadors: you can begin to cancel your flight tickets if you have these flights too close to the end of the session. Because right now, in some ways, there's a question of will, that whose will remains. I would say for my part that I am very motivated after you voted down the proposals on raising defence expenditure in strategy 2035. We offered an honorable way: take it back, make better proposals yourself, maybe you want something else instead of them. But what did you do? You just made a roll. What do we have to do about it? Can you raise your hands up and say there's nothing we can do? That's not the way to drive. You have not earned your daily salary, and we have not earned our daily salary unless we block it, because this is not the way to run it. I have been trying very constructively and friendlyly all along from this remote control to make the recommendations that could be made in this situation in order to proceed constructively together in this dangerous security situation where we are. And what have I seen? I've only seen a roller coaster. But if there hasn't been anything going on for 30 years, there might be some things that haven't happened before. There are many other ways. For example, 30 questions per week can be made. Come in! We can fill the days with all this. I suggest you find a reasonable compromise. You can't go on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U418	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Alar Laneman, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U419	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Enjoyable morning, enjoyable day, and very educational. Good reports, good questions, good answers. We learn how to formulate procedural issues wittyly and effectively. Learning is one of the basics of life, I'd say amusing, let alone developing. But now, if we get practical, what have we learned about this bill? Initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the aim was to guarantee equal rights. We learned that there was actually no problem, there had been no complaints, no other way to draw attention to the fact that there was something wrong here. We know that the views of the Euro ambassadors have been examined, they have not been fixed and, unfortunately, it has not been possible to get acquainted with them. We know that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could not, mainly in fear of misinterpretation, present them, nor did he have the authority to do so. We have learned that the amendments are not linked to specific euro ambassadors, as stated by the chairman of the committee, and the reason is wider. In itself, I consider this to be the right approach. It would be very bad for individual people to legislate, not to mention that it is probably not in line with the law either. I would add that, in fact, it would have been very helpful to fix and familiarise ourselves with the views of the Euro ambassadors, because they might have had the most practical information on this. What do I think is good about this bill? It is always noble and right when some inequality is eliminated. It is also good if we ensure that competence is brought to the level of local governments, which is likely to improve governance and local quality of life. This is probably how we can bring practical knowledge from grassroots to the level of European Union governance and we will definitely reinvigorate local policies. It's very bad, it's basically not good to sit on several chairs. Everyone has 24 hours at their disposal, no matter what level the ambassador is. This is likely to lead to some kind of prioritisation, randomness, and disunity. Perhaps some of the issues that are important remain out of focus at the local government level. It is also bad that there have been very conflicting assessments by the courts, by the legislators, and the Chancellor of Justice has not convinced a hundred percent of the need to unite chairs. What is particularly important is that it is quite safe to say that with this bill we are preventing the creation of talented secondary growth at the local level of power. We know that local authorities are already wrestling with various difficulties, and the coming of talent is extremely important. I daresay we can... Can I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U420	Yes, please! How many minutes do you want? One minute, two minutes, three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U421	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U422	Three, huh? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U423	It is likely to be quite safe to assume that this phenomenon, which I have observed several times myself, will continue, and it has also been pointed out from here and above that the process is becoming increasingly dominant over content. If we bring such experienced, political technology, the old politician wolves familiar with political practices to the local level, then they will certainly know how to deal with, discuss, promote, coordinate and suppress an inappropriate initiative in their opinion. The process is becoming more important than content and results. It's real, by the way, we're able to see it and experience it today. What's very bad is there's no local government rating. There are very cautious positions, they are not united, there are issues and there is also support. That's a shame. This signal, of course, speaks of the fact that the local authorities do not regard it as necessary. We may not be helping the local authorities, but rather disturbing them. If there is a situation where the candidate euro ambassador still does not go to local government level to promote local life, as expectations were, then it is a mockery of democracy. This is not the result we want for anyone, I think. To conclude, there is no such clear need from this debate. There's a formal excuse. There is no overview of the impact this bill will have on different levels, especially at the local government level. It therefore seems to me more and more that this bill is not a good initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U424	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmanni speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U425	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague, Kunnas, pointed out some rather gloomy figures. Perhaps our unintended and unsolicited obstruction promises to be long - lasting. This only raises the question of why we have to do this and why the opposite front does not give up. I have a strong suspicion today that this database has already been created, that it already exists and that it is now immensely urgent with its legalisation and introduction. But that's it. Now a name for the draft law that would allow Members of the European Parliament to stand as candidates for local elections. Our good colleague, Mrs Kingo, at the beginning of her speech, pointed out that people work in many different positions and burn out there. I know a paramedic myself. He's a paramedic in the Defence Forces. If he finishes his shift in the Defence Forces, he'll be working for two more ambulance companies. The only reason he can do that is because there's a screaming demand for paramedics. I would now like to ask if there is a screaming demand for MEPs in the local council. And the answer is: there is no demand for them, there is zero demand, because they give nothing more to the local government to organise their work, to solve local problems. Zero effect. Maybe, well, there's an indirect effect. It reminds me of all this unsolicited happiness. By paraphrasing the expression or phenomenon of the Soviet era, I would also call it malicious Timurism. Timur was the kind of literary hero who rushed to help whenever needed. There's also an anecdote. The young Timurians go to the old man and say: "The same old man, we would like to help you. " The old man says, " No, he doesn't need help, he has broken trees and rhymes, and the water is in the room. ' "Well, no, comrade old man, we'd still like to help. Don't you have anything to do? "" Well, yes, it is. We need to kill the pig and bleed it, but you can't do it. " " That's right, Comrade Old Man! "The timuri will rush into the barn, there will be some horrible screaming and noise, and eventually the rattled but tired and happy timuri will appear again and report: "The same old man did not succeed in killing the pig, but we beat him hard." Such use of European Parliament ambassadors indirectly reminds me of that. I myself have been chairman of the Conservative Group at the Tallinn Council for two years. I can honestly assure you that sitting in two chairs is not a good idea. Tallinn Council drives the Riigikogu over its ambassadors. A little more, please! Three minutes, if I may.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U426	Yeah, yeah, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U427	It has already been said by colleagues here that in addition to the meeting of the council, there is real work, substantive work, just like in the Riigikogu, mostly in committees, plus we add independent work, right, in solving problems, investigating, dialing, collecting data. This is comparable to the work of the Riigikogu Ambassador. Well, the volume isn't that high, he is, let's say, a quarter of the work of the Riigikogu ambassador. This concerns the relationship between the work of the Riigikogu Ambassador and the work of a member of the local government council. But now comes from Brussels or Strasbourg from the European Parliament. Let's just say he's not coming, and none of them are going to work. But the use of decoy like this is disrespectful, and we shouldn't do that, we should be honest with our constituents... [[The Estonian anthem plays in the background. There's a break in the speech.]] Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, we obviously witnessed the historic moment. I don't think one morning in this hall has been accepted with an anthem, so let's write it in our memory books. But I don't want to hold you for long. I would conclude with the idea that there is nothing unique about these MEPs and that there is nothing to add to the local authorities. I'm absolutely convinced... I don't want to say anything special about Yana Toom, but her name was a lot called. So let's call it a generalisation that these Yana Toome have bundles in every council in Estonia. In the future, when this black scenario starts, the biggest winner will be the council that will be nominated for President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U428	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair at Uno Kaskpeiti, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U429	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not talking about Yana Toom. I'm talking about my experience in the previous composition. I was a member of the Riigikogu and was also encouraged to apply in Valga. Of course there was no problem. I got in Valga too. Sure, it felt great. But these are two different things. First of all, it's almost 300 kilometers apart. I was, I think, about three months in a big trouble in Valga, because it happened that there was a meeting in this hall in Tallinn and at the same time there was a meeting in Valga. Then choose where you're going, you're here, or you're going there. It's a joke, actually. All right, who's on Toompea and in Tallinn, has another thing, walks down the hill, sits there for an hour and comes back here. But there is no serious thing to travel 260-270 kilometres to Valka and back from there, and I think that these things are not compatible elsewhere, beyond Estonia, Ida-Viru, Saaremaa or anywhere in Pärnu. These are pointless things. I lasted three months, and then it started to hurt my head to go back and forth, and I couldn't decide which side it was more important to sit here or there. Especially when it comes to the European Union's [Parliament] ambassador, who has to come to the local government somewhere. That would be even worse. I think it's even worse if I had to go here than Valka. Why make a circus like this? Of course, a person may be elected because he is a well-known name, those who are already ambassadors in the European Union. I guess people choose a famous person out of their own good will. But, in fact, it is of very little use in this local government because it is not able to participate much in the work of this local government. So, yeah, that's the story. I have this experience of my own, and that's why I don't think such things make sense. There is no point in making exceptions to who can apply in Tallinn, but not in Valga. There has to be a common attitude towards everyone, if you can't apply in Valga, you can't apply here either. There's no point running between two places. The people who sit here and run for office in Tallinn, too, I'm saying that these sessions are at the same time, and which sitting you're going to give up, all right? That doesn't make any sense. So my proposal and my point is yes, because I've been through it myself because I don't think it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U430	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U431	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, It's a beautiful morning and the working atmosphere continues. We still have a long way to go. But what am I talking about? In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, I was a member of the Constitutional Committee for a long time and I had a good teacher Jüri Adams. He was sitting right across from me on the other side of the table. He was Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the time. But most importantly, he was the author of the constitution. As a puppy, I learned quite a lot from him in practical work about how Riigikogu laws. Imagine if you have a teacher who wrote the most basic law of all, and now is watching people who have come to interpret this law interpret it. Why am I saying this? We were discussing all kinds of drafts there. By the way, we were also the ones who worked on the draft administrative reform. You may not all know that we voted against it completely, including the honourable current President of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas. It didn't fit anywhere. But we're going to use this bill, which has been made into law, to this day, and as we move around, we're going to hear what's really come out of it, that should be revised. Then the question arises again when is the right time to change. Just a few days ago, the Chancellor of Justice and I discussed the same matters. He thought, as I did, that really the municipalities should make it smaller for being closer to people, not make them bigger. But as we all know, math goes to this house within 101. If there are 51 votes or how it is needed, such a bill will also come and the Estonian state will act accordingly. Now, if we come to the draft that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs launched on 12 May, what do I think about it? Oh, yeah, we also dealt with the same bill at the time, the so-called two-chair bill. I remember one of the then Chancellors fighting for it and the other fighting against it. Both are taught by people, adequate arguments, fancy papers, take or leave, can be so and can be so. You can sleep on the left side of your bitch, and you can sleep on the right side, just like you did when I was a journalist in Central Asia, one of Tajikistan's leaders told me when I asked you how you were with Perestroika. The high boss started laughing, the disgusting gold teeth came out. He also said that before he slept on the left side of his baba, now he sleeps on the right side. Perestroitsa. This means that he and Tajikistan's comrades were not interested in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U432	Good waitress, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U433	What, three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U434	If you like.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U435	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U436	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U437	So I think it has been initiated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs since 9 May. I think there's someone behind this from the government coalition ambassadors. I don't rule out Yana Toom, who went to put flowers, but maybe Urmas Paet, maybe Andrus Ansip. I think it's one of them. But that's it. Finally, I will read you a few lines from Animal Farm: "Animals in England and Ireland, / animals in the whole world, / spread the happy news: / golden time awaits us. In the past, the later day will dawn, when the throne will pass away to man, and all the land of this fruit-bearing / belongs only to us. Ringed from the nose, yoke from the neck, broken from the whip and mouth to the basket. Let the chain and the jug eat rust, / let our hair curly! "I think this "Animal Farm" song, which I am not reading to the end, is suitable for characterizing this bill. It's okay and it's okay, but I think it's soft nonsense. There are 24 hours for everyone, both pigs and humans. It's very difficult to sleep in three beds at a time, let alone work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U438	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We now need to examine the amendments to draft 389. They have not been received. The commission has proposed that the second reading be discontinued. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of Act 389 amending the Act on the Election of the European Parliament and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of draft 389. Please take a stand and vote. [[Voices in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U439	In favour of 4, against 40, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U440	Yes, Mr President. The anthem has sounded, festive, and the ambassadors have come to the hall, but the tablet was long before my benchmate's name when you noticed. So actually, we should do it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U441	Thank you. When I put this proposal of yours to the vote, there were no calls on the table. Henn Fieldace, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U442	Thank you. The way you clocked it, you said you were putting it, I pressed the button, so my speech was absolutely there, it was on the board. So I would like to ask for a repeat vote now, to cancel the previous one and also to give me the floor so that I can make my proposal as I wished.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U443	Thank you. If you would have liked to make an additional proposal in addition to the proposal you made in writing, this proposal should have been made before the members of the Riigikogu were invited to this Chamber. [[Voices in the hall.]] The vote has been taken and this vote cannot be reversed. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U444	Thank you, Mr President. The question now is that you say one thing and we say another. I'm proposing to check who was right. Let's take a look at the tape. It is clear from there that Henn Põlluaas wanted the word before you started the buttons. Then the argument is settled. It is absolutely clear that the hand was upright, but you did not react.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U445	When the sally came, there were no hands on the table. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please! No question. Henn Fieldace, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U446	Thank you. It doesn't depend on whether the signal was before or after. The Rules of Procedure law does not say anything about this signal, it says that if anyone wants a word, you have to give it, and before the vote, the group has the right to take a ten-minute break. I would have, but you didn't even look this way, you didn't even look at the board. [[Noise in the hall.]] You put the vote through. Please cancel this vote and let's start over!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U447	Thank you, Mr. Pier. If you want to take a break before the vote, this option will be available for up to ten minutes. It must be fixed before the voting is prepared, i.e. members of the Riigikogu are invited to the hall within two minutes. The board was empty at that point. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U448	Thank you. I have now learned from your explanations that one mismatch has been eliminated. According to your explanation, you can demand a break at a certain point in time. So, in the course of this so-called ordinary conversation here, we have eliminated the contradiction that Henn Põllea's hand was not up. Therefore, there is no dispute that the hand was up. Now we have an argument about when that hand was up. Looking at your tired and dim face, you probably don't remember everything that happened right now. I'm asking for the help of your brilliant and sturdy councillors who would tell us under what section of our... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What do we have now? Where is the Riigikogu fixed on the basis of the law on work and order, when should the hand be raised to vote, when is this technical regulation in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U449	Thank you. It is in place as prescribed by our work experience, which has been as follows. If the President says that a proposal has come, then the leadership of the group that wishes to do so has immediately announced that it would also like to take a break. Mr Orchard and I had the same cooperation in this sitting a few hours ago. Since this was not the case at the moment, there was no break, after all, none of the five groups wanted it. Peter Ernits, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U450	Good manager! Morning is tiring. But I see the tabs very well, and I also know the will of my benchmate, which we have been discussing here in the last few minutes. It's much better to see who was in this hall when. But the recordings could see how it was. What's to discuss?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U451	Thank you. I will stick to what I have said: at that point none of the five political group's management expressed this will. I even waited before the sally started. Considering you have a desire to take breaks, I even waited one more time before the hall call. This will was not expressed. I guess that wasn't the will this time. Reuben Weightep, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U452	Thank you, good manager. You are now explaining that your behaviour is based on established practice. But practice cannot outweigh the rights of members and political groups of the Riigikogu, which are written in the law. Therefore, in order to deal with this situation, please explain in concrete terms which legislation and which point is the result of the argument that the proposal for a break must be made before the call for evidence, rather than just before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U453	This is the result of our Home and Working Procedures Act. The voting procedure is set out in § 83. And certainly we must be guided by our work experience. I imagine it doesn't make any sense that if we invite people to the hall in two minutes, people will come to the hall, but then they'll take a ten-minute break. The idea has always been that before the hall call, the group or the management will be told if a break of up to ten minutes is desired to discuss, to reflect on how to proceed with this vote. Helle-Moonika Helme, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U454	Thank you. Indeed, I am the first shift here in the Riigikogu. Really, all this time, I've been just like I've missed, when is this call sign and when is this proposal? Now talk this procedure through perfectly clearly. First of all, you say that such a proposal came along, and you call it in. Then you say again that it will be voted on. But before I say I'm taking a break, is this call time for the hall going in, or is this break going to run when everyone's in the hall? In short, just talk about this procedure, then, I think, it'll be clear to everyone, without paragraphs, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U455	Thank you. Just like I did. The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of Bill 389 had come, and I read it out. At that point in time, someone in the management of the five groups would have had to take a break, to express it, to say it was not wanted. That's why we went to the hall call sign, which lasts up to two minutes. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U456	You see, the tablet is still my wish to have a word, it's nice to see there. Indeed, the voting procedure is laid down in § 83 of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let's start reading it in line. It says here that one minute before the vote, the chair of the sitting will send a signal to the Members. You did it, you set the clock on. Before voting, the chairman or vice-chairman of a standing committee or political group may request a break of not more than 10 minutes. That's point 2. Chronologically, that's the way it is here, and that's exactly how I acted, but you didn't count on it. You're saying I should have made my wish before you signaled. Let us not look at what we have in the Home and Working Procedures Act. I did this in full time, in accordance with our rules of procedure and domestic law, before the vote. I therefore insist that you cancel this vote and we start over because there has been a very gross violation of the existing law on home and working procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U457	Thank you, Mr. Pier. You know this very well of your work placement in this Chamber. There is a law on home and working procedures, but there is certainly established practice. We all know that the intermission will take place before the hall call. When the suffrage begins, it is already considered to be a vote. That's right. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U458	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna be forced to improve your legal position a little while while you're talking about practice. You see, civil law is... Hello, can you hear me? Mr. Jüri Ratas, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U459	Great, I've been through this night very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U460	Oh, I see. I thought you were just talking and pouring water. The question is that civil law really allows for what is not prohibited. In the administrative law that we are currently applying here, what is permitted is that, in other words, there is no right in administration to implement practices that are not codified. But the biggest problem, Mr President of the Riigikogu, is that what you are trying to instill here for us is, in fact, unlawful. First I come, paragraph... Ah! I ask you, of course, not to look at such a troubled face, but to pick up the same wise book. See, yeah? I would ask you to open pages 257 and 258. Here are some of the things that disprove your statement about the long-term practice of the Riigikogu. First of all, that one minute before the vote, the President of the sitting will signal the member of the Riigikogu by sending a signal to the premises of the Riigikogu. Well, that's what you did. Next, for some time, the members of the Riigikogu will come to this hall and then this is the moment, the second paragraph of this executive section says nicely that when the members of the Riigikogu have gathered in the Chamber, they have the right to take a position on whether it is necessary to take a break or not to take a break, and in principle also to coordinate their views on the vote ahead. It has been said here very nicely that if the application is made by a creditor, which we do not currently have a dispute about, that it is Mr Põllea, the request must be accepted. Here too, the President of the sitting has absolutely no discretion as to whether or not to announce a recess. If you claim that you are right, first of all please give a specific reference to which section you are relying. I am now absolutely relying on the practice you referred to, this is the same Riigikogu...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U461	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. We all understand what this is about. You've gotten it back for ten minutes with your procedural questions. The question is that at the moment when the leadership of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia had to take a break, it did not. He forgot, there's nothing to do. Let's move on. Reuben Kaalep, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U462	Thank you, good Chairman. You referred to § 83 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act as the basis for your activities. You see, as I do, that § 83 does not mention a call to the hall, but it is a matter of recess before voting. You replied that you are based on established practice, but a practice that has not been written into words or law cannot outweigh a specific paraphrase of the law. So, do you admit that you interpreted the law on home and working procedures very freely?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U463	No, I interpreted the Home and Working Procedures Act exactly as this hall has worked in practice. However, the executive edition of the Home and Working Rules Act clearly states that the voting procedure consists of the following actions: preparing the vote, announcing the vote, putting the matter to the vote, taking a vote and announcing the results of the vote. Peter Ernits, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U464	Good manager! I would like to draw attention to a nuance to § 83 (5) which states that no one in the Chamber may speak out loud until the results of the vote are known. Now, if you look at this footage or experience, we can see that your opinion was very loudly expressed here after that. So by this point alone, this thing should be canceled.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U465	Thank you. Yes, I agree that there must be silence in the Chamber during the vote, as the law requires. What you have commented on, how loudly or loudly these thoughts are expressed, must be appreciated by the President. My assessment at the time was that it did not require that the vote be suspended. Henn Fieldace, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U466	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're saying you did everything right and nice and in accordance with custom and tradition. On the contrary, I say on the contrary: it is absolutely unusual, untradential and unprecedented, that the group's wish is not met and that it is refused to give a break when asked for it. It is a cross against all our parliamentary practices. Especially when asked for this break, following our rules of procedure exactly as stipulated in the Rules of Procedure Act. So once again, I propose to you, and I insist that you cancel the vote and we come back to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U467	Thank you, Mr. Pier. Once again, if a break is requested before the voting procedure begins, the President will take a break. They didn't ask for that. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U468	Why don't you explain when this voting procedure will start so we can understand? You said that when you started the hall call, that's how the vote started. Explain. I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U469	I explained this as follows: when I read out the second reading of your group's proposal, I should have asked for a break that was not requested. I told you that even before the hall call, I waited a little while, considering that you most likely want a break ♪ it wasn't the one you wanted. This was not desired and therefore this break was not taken. Peter Ernits, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U470	Yeah. It's a nice morning. My benchmate had the law of the house and the rules of procedure open at that point, and I say with absolute certainty that my penguin was completely adequate and knew what she was doing. Let's look at § 83, what we had going on here before that. It has been said here, I repeat, as the first point, that one minute before the vote, the President will send a signal to the Members. The second point is that, before voting, the chairman of a committee or a political group, etc., may request a break of up to 10 minutes. If there were a reverse order in the Home and Working Procedures Act, such as Paragraph 83 (1) would be that before voting, the chairman of a permanent committee or group may request a break of up to ten minutes, and then the point should be that one minute before voting, which is now No 1 if they had been exchanged in the Home and Working Procedures Act, there would be nothing to discuss. But he who knows the letter can see that it is quite clear. So I think it's more than clear on a clear morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U471	Thank you. A few observations, Mr Ernits, on your procedural question. The Home and Working Procedures Act has first changed the fact that we do not have a salikutsung for not one minute, I think, you are relying on a commentary publication, but on two minutes. Point one. Point two is that Paragraph 85 (2) states that, once the results of the vote have been confirmed, they are not disputed. This is the result of the vote confirmed by the President's hammer. In the present case, this proposal was not supported. Reuben Kaalep, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U472	Thank you, good Chairman. The law states quite clearly that a break may be required before the vote. Now, your use of the word was very interesting that a break may be required before the voting procedure begins. If the law had such a wording, it would be clear that it would give you a much broader interpretation. But the wording of the law is "before the vote." So, I ask whether it is your view that Henn Põljaas did not give a sign of wish to take a break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U473	The answer is yes. We rely on the law here, but we also rely on our work placement, and the work placement has been that recess is requested before the hall call. This was not done for any reason in this case. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U474	Thank you. I would like to try, Mr President, to remove the bottlenecks that we have here in this debate, because once you speak one thing, once again. I do not think we have any argument that there is a right to demand a ten-minute break before voting. You agree, don't you? Okay. What you're referring to is that there must be some action to be taken before the call, I don't think it says here. First of all, the same paragraph of § 83 says well: two minutes before the vote, the manager sends a signal. This means that when you set off the signal, until the vote started, we had time to take a break in two minutes. Do you understand? There will be a signal before the vote; in two minutes, the vote will begin. After you set off that alarm, Henn Põllea's arm was up. Okay. In any case, you had not yet put it to the vote. Secondly, your reference to the fact that they are not disputed after the results of the vote have been confirmed. Yeah, but we were going to challenge you when you put it here... I do not know what you have done here, which means that the results of the vote had not yet been confirmed. If you want, in principle, it would also actually be an opportunity for you to simply pay no attention to the protest or to the ten-minute intermission demands that have taken place before the vote. But the point is, we still have...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U475	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. I think I understand the point of your procedural question. You asked me what I was doing here. I conducted a request from the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of Bill 389. Henn Põllamas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U476	Thank you. This talk you have about practice, when the Home and Rules of Procedure Act is broken, doesn't cost anything. I did exactly what our rules and procedures prescribe. Before the vote, I wished to take a break. We go from § 83 to § 84. It says here that if the voting procedure is broken during the voting process, the President of the sitting will interrupt the vote and point 2 states that the obstacles mentioned in subsection 1 of this section will be signalled by the member of the Riigikogu by raising his hand. In addition to the fact that I had signalled on the electronic table that I wanted to speak and take a break, I also lifted my hand up. You didn't look at this side absolutely, you didn't look on your monitor to see if there were any wishes to speak, you just ignored it and put this proposal to the vote. This means that you have been very, very reckless about your tasks, you are ignoring the Rules of Procedure Act, you are ignoring the wishes of the Riigikogu groups. I really have a suggestion that what we are arguing about here, we have recordings, let us review them, and you will see that I had a perfectly clear desire to have the word, in every way, both electronically and physically expressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U477	Good Henn Põllamas! I think we all understand what we are arguing about: that this hearing should last as long as possible. You have the right to do what you have said. At that point, at the right moment, you didn't ask for a break. That's the problem. You have now been able to spend more than ten minutes with these procedural questions. So I think you've served your purpose. I think we could move on. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U478	Now we've heard here, at least I've heard, we've all heard what has nothing to do with it. You're incriminating us with some kind of wish that we're doing it for obstruction. Look, we're not doing this for obstruction. That ten minutes would have been for obstruction. Today, we have lost much more time and not because of obstruction, but because we are arguing about very fundamental matters here. You are like two completely contradictory things: that, yes, we rely on law and established practice. But I'll give you, if you don't understand, a different example that will metaphorically explain what we're doing right now. We know we have traffic laws. There's a red light somewhere, you live there, you drive there all the time, you want to turn home, nobody comes, you turn the red light. Yeah, maybe we've all done that. But right now we're in a situation where the police are standing on the corner telling you that you were driving a red light right now. And then you tell him it's an established practice, I'm sorry, I've been driving like this all along. You see, this established practice is not interested in the executive power, which carries out the procedure according to the law. I have a suggestion: we are now also carrying out a procedure, or we are re-organising a vote in accordance with the law, because the established practice is not of interest to the police in this example that I set out, and in fact this established practice should not apply now either. We have to follow the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U479	Thank you. And the law says, § 85 (2) that, once the results of the vote have been confirmed, they are not in dispute. Reuben Weightep, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U480	Thank you. Good Chairman! I believe you agree with me that your hammer strike always has a very big meaning. As you have just said, at the moment when you have confirmed the results of the hammer vote, the results are no longer in dispute. I don't want to argue with that right now. But I would point out that during the voting procedure, you did two hammers, not one. My question is: if this first hammer strike was not the beginning of the vote, what was it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U481	Thank you. As I said, the voting procedure consists of various parts, which I also read out from the executive edition of the Home and Working Procedures Act. It starts with a hall call. This dispute we have at the moment is about whether there was a willingness to take a break at the right time. My argument is that it was not the will at the right time to take a break. Kalle Grünthal, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U482	Thank you, Mr President. You have repeatedly stated that the right moment was missed. The problem for me is, when is this the right moment? Actually, the right moment to ask for this break wasn't before the hall call, it wasn't the right time. It has been specifically stated here that two minutes before the vote, the President of the sitting signals a signal. Consequently, in this grammatical interpretation, this means that there is still two minutes to the vote. You know what I'm saying right now? Once that signal is operational, there are two minutes left until the vote begins. Ruuben Kaalep added to this the part that you had a hammer kick at the beginning of the vote, which means that before the vote, the hand of Henn Põllea, which he put up, was fit for that part of the speech, and there were also the cries that came from our hall. What are you doing? What are you doing, Mr. Jüri Ratas, that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U483	Thank you, Mr Grünthal, I understand your procedural question. The answer is, the right moment would have been before the hall call. Imre Sooäär, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U484	Thank you, good manager. There are a couple of people in this hall who have been here since 2003. The missing Mart Nutt was here much longer. I'm one of those two people who remembers dozens and dozens of similar night sessions, like today. This situation has occurred before, which we have here now, actually repeatedly. No chairman, no speaker or deputy speaker, has resolved this in any other way. The interpretation of this point of law in the Rules of Procedure has always been the same. It is quite human that in the middle of the night, after tens of hours of sitting, someone forgets to ask for a break immediately if you want a vote and before that break. It gets out of your mind, it's human, it gets out of your mind. In this case, this good colleague, Henn Põljaasa, lost his mind, although on the same night he has said this sentence several times, you can look at the verbatim: 'I ask for a vote and before the vote 10 minutes of break. " Repeatedly, this sentence has also sounded here tonight. Repeatedly, dozens of times over the years. Nothing's changed. The second aspect: if we have a question that does not allow any further progress in the Riigikogu because all procedural questions are about the same subject, then the chairmen of the sitting have always solved this situation by saying that the President of the Riigikogu has answered this question exhaustively and now we are going to proceed with the sitting, because we have a lot of drafts to discuss. In this case, too, the sitting should be moved forward, ending the discussion of this particular procedural issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U485	Thank you. I have no more to add to this procedural question than to explain exactly that in the last 15 to 20 minutes. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U486	Good manager! A good colleague had a long tirade here, how he has known how it has been since the Stone Age. I remember last day, the same colleague spoke about things that I said that if he doesn't hear well, he doesn't see well, the stone may be, but the stone may not understand. So it's bullshit, as they say in the language of the country. I was sitting and sitting next to Henn Põllea right now, and I was the closest witness to this whole thing. We were ahead, I repeat again, the Rules of Procedure Act, and we followed the same points that have been said, I repeat again, Paragraph 83 (1) that, before the vote, gives a signal, and paragraph 2 that before the vote it may take a break. If the legislator has written in this way, but not the other way around, it must be based on it. It's completely elementary. Otherwise, it would have been the other way around that it would have to be announced, before the vote, that the chairman of the political group could request a ten-minute break and then give the President a signal. Then it would be perfectly clear. So I'm protesting very clearly because I was closest to this whole process and we discussed...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U487	Mr. Ernits, thank you. I understand what you're protesting against and what you're saying. I'll say it again. If we have taken a break before the vote, it has been done immediately before the call of the hall. When I read the second reading of the bill of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I even waited for a few moments to see why this request would not come to the board, assuming that you have this request or this will. It didn't come. From that moment on, I started the hall call. My sense is that I think we have actually addressed this issue. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, I think we are. But the truth is that Paul Puustusmaa has not yet been able to ask a procedural question. He's tried to help us on several occasions. I very much hope that this opportunity will also arise today, and I don't know, maybe we can get to the Thursday agenda. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U488	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would say that, by itself, the offence cannot create a right. It is simply a question of principle that has arisen about the moment in which something was done. One says one thing, the other says another. Is it difficult if you really look at it from the video, what it really was like? We're gonna get the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U489	Thank you. I say again that I looked at the tabloos and the board had no desire, and there was no wish in the hall before the call started. Like I said, I waited a few more minutes. A procedural question, Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U490	Thank you. This is an absolutely arbitrary and malicious interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Act, as if before the hall call should already signal. Our Home and Rules of Procedure Act makes it clear that before the vote, the wish will be published and the vote will begin in this way (Article 83 (4)): the decision to put the matter to the vote will be confirmed by the President of the sitting with a hammer. From this moment on, the vote will begin. Until then, I, or the chairman or vice-chairman of any political group, have the right to express my wish to take a break. You didn't look at the board and you didn't look at the hall where I wore my hand. The only way is for you to satisfy this protest and to hold a new vote. What somebody in this hall thinks is that whether I've forgotten something or not, it's just an empty fly-bang in the ears, it doesn't matter at all, because I know I didn't forget, I pressed the button in time, I gave the hand the signal, it's recorded on the video. So, Chairman, please, if you do not want to discuss how you have broken the rules of procedure here until 14:00 today, until the end of the Thursday session, let us just vote again and we are all pleased.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U491	Thank you, Mr. Pier. We have the law, as I said, § 85 (2) that, after the results of the vote have been confirmed, the results of the vote are not in dispute. You and I both know what's been a practice. I also told you, Mr Põljaas, that this practice has also been in this sitting: if I have led and you have put something to the vote, then you have asked for a break immediately. This was not the case in this case, and that is why this break was not taken. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U492	Thank you, good Chairman. I had a very specific procedural question for you, which, unfortunately, you did not answer, but I am still waiting for an answer. What was the legal or ritual meaning of your first hammer strike during the voting procedure if it was not the beginning of the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U493	Thank you. I have read to you from the executive edition of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which is the voting process. Surely the hammer strike is also part of this process. But in this case, I think the question is, when should I have asked for a break? I will stick to my position that there has been a work placement in this Chamber over the years, which has always been such that a break is immediately requested before a call to the hall. As I said earlier, at the moment I say, it makes sense, not that we ask people here, we do a hall call for two minutes, and then we take a break. Surely the sensible approach has been what has been our practice: before the call to the hall, a break is asked. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U494	Thank you for the floor. But I think that we have now moved forward in one part after this long debate. We have learned that you believe it is the right moment to signal a break when you have not heard a call to the hall, as I understand it. But I would point out that Paragraph 83 (1) states that until the beginning of the vote, this period is two minutes. We have the right to request a break of up to ten minutes before the vote, which will fit into this two-minute period.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U495	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we've gotten any new information from here. I've been listening to this debate for the last half hour and no new information has come. If I add up all the procedural questions you've done, it's been considerably more, three times more than you would have had this ten-minute break. Since the hammer of the President of the sitting really rang, our law says that after the hammer click the results are no longer contested (§ 85 (2)). At this point, I have the proposal to consider this item as exhausted and to move forward. The opposition has received its wish to [express] more than ten minutes and the hearing is able to proceed because the vote has taken place. Once again, no matter how much we discuss the same point, no matter how much we bounce the same point back and forth, it does not change that the hammer has struck. The Rules of Procedure state very clearly that, once the hammer of the President of the sitting has struck, the results are not disputed. Can we move on or do we have to... [[A voice from the hall.]] I also have a proposal to move forward now. Honourable gentlemen Ernits, Põlluaas and Kaalep, I suggest you also consider what the hall said and really move forward. Mr. Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U496	No, I don't think that's how it works, even though this time game makes it pretty absurd. We are now arguing with another person, in the meantime a new person has arrived, patted on the first shoulder, and it is very difficult to continue on this subject. I was really the closest and I know what the plan was and why it was like that, we had our agenda open. If there is a sequence that initially gives, point 1, a signal and then can take or ask for a break, then this is quite clearly step 1 and step 2. If this yellow book had, on the contrary, asked for a break first and then signaled, there would be nothing to discuss. But...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U497	Clear, Mr. Ernits, clear. I'll tell you again, I've been listening to this debate for the last half hour. I don't think there's any more bits of information here, not one. I think it's settled a long time ago. The President of the Riigikogu has said and explained what the previous practice has been in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I would also ask all of you, if you so wish, to be in opposition or coalition (I do not know, perhaps someone would like to take a break from the coalition), to abide by the rule that the break will be taken before the bell. It's a simple, clear, understandable instruction from the manager to the hall. Please, let's not argue about this any more and move on. I understand your wish, but be aware that we all have a agenda ahead of us, for which we are responsible to the Estonian people. So in that sense, if there's a wish... Okay. Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U498	Thank you. Please tell me specifically this paragraph, this paragraph, the provision in which it is said, as you have just said, that the intermission will be taken before the hall call. This is absolute fiction; it has no basis or any connection with our Rules of Procedure law. Instead of blaming us here as if we were stalling, you could have followed the law. The Chairman of the Riigikogu should not have followed the law, but should have given the opportunity to take a break before the vote, before the hammer strike, which announces the vote. It wasn't done. You're accusing us that we haven't added a bit of new information here, but you aren't, either, absolutely, so are you...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U499	Okay, I got it. Mr. Pier, Mr. Pier! You have also been the President of the sitting here, even the President of the Riigikogu. You have also held this debate here with procedural questions and, if I remember correctly, you also ended this debate at one point when there was a procedure debate. If there is no other way, the floor must take a position pursuant to § 72 (2) as to whether or not we will proceed to the agenda. We are in a situation where the hammer strike of the President of the Riigikogu ended the voting process. Once the voting process has been completed with a hammer strike, the results of the voting are no longer disputed. I'll give you the last three procedures, or we can't get through here. We've been renegotiating exactly the same porridge for half an hour now, I don't see that there's any way we can get more information. Once again, the hammer strike of the Head of the Riigikogu confirmed the results of the vote. Okay. Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U500	Thank you, good manager. You said there was no new information in the process, but that's exactly what I want from you. I asked Mr Ratas several times a procedural question that I could not answer. Now I ask you for that answer. What does the first hammer strike during the voting procedure mean: is it the beginning of the vote or is it something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U501	According to previous practice, I have understood this way when the President of the Riigikogu strikes a hammer to please take a position and vote, then the voting process begins, the clock is set in which the member of the Riigikogu must take his or her position. Once the results have been found, the second hammer strike will confirm these results. Mr. Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U502	Thank you. You have a very interesting interpretation that if the President confirms the results with a hammer strike, they will no longer be disputed. But if the President deliberately ignores protests about the violations that occurred during the voting process, how can members of the Riigikogu defend their rights at all if the President deliberately ignores these remarks and protests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U503	Mr. Grünthal! I'm not interpreting anything. I'm reading the law. Paragraph 85 (2) explicitly states that they are not disputed after confirmation of the result of the vote. I'll take the last procedural question so we can move on. Mr. Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U504	Thank you, Mr. Pevkur! I've been waiting a long time for Mart Võrguship to appear on the speaker's desk to ask him about the matter. I'm reminding you that this shit right now, which has been here for the last half hour, wasn't my purpose or my benchmate's. This is exactly the same as my colleague Jürgen Ligi said to Mr Aadu Black "useful idiot" the other day. There's been a half-hour of this bickering, and my colleague Ligi said that a "useful idiot" is such a friendly approach. You can look at it in the minutes. So these two things, the case of the so-called useful idiot, and this debate, which is supposed to be the same, are not related at all to the obstruction, but are substantive, which is not something that I wanted, nor my penguin, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U505	Very good! Then we'll move on to the agenda. I can tell you we're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U506	I'd like a speech chair from the Riigikogu, Mart Võrguship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U507	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad to hear I've been expected. I present draft 212, which was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 1 June 2021. On 17 April 2020, when examining the application of the Chancellor of Justice, the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that the early termination of the mandate of a member of the local government council, if a member of the council becomes a member of the local government authority on the basis of a contract of employment, is unconstitutional and must be repealed. Consequently, on 11 June 2020, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs initiated a draft of 212 supplementing § 19 (2) of the Local Government Organisation Act, according to which the mandate of a council member is suspended if he or she is employed by a municipality or city authority on the basis of a contract of employment. The Commission tabled three amendments to the draft. The first amendment supplements the list of subsection 19 (4) (4). The second amendment introduces an implementing provision for the members of the council who, at the time of the entry into force of the Act, work in the municipal or city authorities on the basis of a contract of employment. The date of entry into force of the Act is set by Amendment 20 July 2021. The members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously supported the amendments. In addition, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 8 June 2021 and to propose that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading and that the final vote be taken on 16 June 2021 and that I be appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U508	Mr. Networker, before we can go to the questions, there is another urgent question in Paul Puustusmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U509	Thank you, good manager. I am interested to see which of the Rules of Procedure paragraphs are currently invoked in such a way that an item on the agenda was taken up before the procedural issues were resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U510	I was based on the fact that we had essentially exhausted this item on the agenda and Paragraph 85 (2) states that the results of the vote have been confirmed. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U511	Thank you. Yeah, my question is similar. The law on our home and working arrangements was still grossly violated. The vote will begin with a hammer strike until it is possible to take a break. We didn't get that chance. Now the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu simply drives over the opposition and closes any debate on protests. Is it democratic, is it the spirit of our Parliament? No, it's not. The problems will be solved, then they will move on. Under no procedure can the members of the Riigikogu simply be passed over with such skininess.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U512	Mr. Pier! Your protest and your questions were about whether or not you could take a break. As I said, § 85 (2) explicitly states: if the hammer has confirmed the results of the vote, they are in force. Mr. Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U513	By the way, Mr President, you yourself also gave the solution here: if there is a problem in front of such a broken trough that we cannot get over it, then it can still be solved with a large Chamber vote. You didn't apply it. Why didn't you take this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U514	Because we had solved all these questions. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U515	Thank you, Hanno Pevkur! I wouldn't want to say right now that the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. You used my last procedure when I told you that I was waiting for Mart Võrguship there, and that ended [debate], you used that opportunity procedurally, but it's not correct. You'll see that there are still hands up on procedural questions, and then you'll abuse my words that I'm waiting for Mart Võrguship there. Well, not pretty, Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U516	Thanks for the information. Merry Aart, you have a question about the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U517	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In the explanatory memorandum, I read, and you also said that this is work on a contract of employment. Does this mean that if there is a contract of command, it is not covered by this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U518	That's a good question. We did not discuss this in the Commission. So I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U519	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U520	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Don't you think this bill is actually a contrition bill? He may solve some kind of legal barrage, or whatever the word we give him, but he does not really remove these corruption opportunities, but on the contrary, rather pushes them under the surface and hides them, rather than being very clear. If the people who worked in the municipality so far as a technical employee or any employee now go to the council, their connections and possibilities to influence the processes will not go away.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U521	No, I don't think so. I think it creates legal clarity and makes a choice whether you're at the office or on the council. There is no way to be in two places to become the law on this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U522	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U523	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did the Commission have this discussion, or are there cases where a person working at the same time in a municipal authority and council has used his or her jobs for corrupt purposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U524	This was not discussed in the Commission and I am not aware of these cases at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U525	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U526	Thank you. As the bill number says, this bill has been in the process for a very long time. The explanatory memorandum also refers to the fact that the judgment was some time old and that the law had originally to apply last year. Perhaps you can describe what has put this procedure so long? It's gone over the deadlines. Have there been any longer rounds of consultation or involvement, or have there been any further disputes that have taken so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U527	Thank you. This is not what we discussed in the Commission, but I think the reason is a more active coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U528	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U529	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Mr. Netship! I would really be most interested in the extent of the impact of this bill. If the previous bill concerned seven persons, how many are now affected by this bill? This means that how many local government councils are or could be, who would like to be contractual employees of the same municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U530	This question cannot be answered because every time you choose a local government, this number changes, i.e. it is time-changing, there is no clear number.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U531	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U532	Good manager! Dear waitress, Being a schoolmaster myself, I have been in a contractual relationship with the parish and I know that many school leaders have been in, or are still in, a contractual relationship. If they are elected to a council, does this mean that they can practically no longer be headmasters, or that they are school leaders and do not go to a council?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U533	The heads of the sub-office of this bill shall not be concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U534	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U535	Thank you, manager. I am still interested in how you analysed this risk of corruption and possible dependence on such contracts. What discussions did you have, and did you discuss it with anti-corruption associations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U536	No, we have not discussed this, at least in the context of this meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which I am talking about. However, this argument can be examined in judgment No 5-19-45 of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U537	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U538	Thank you. Good waitress! In the explanatory memorandum there is such a sentence that the law was originally intended to enter into force on 17 October 2020, i.e. when the Supreme Court ruling came into force, but it has taken longer than originally planned to process the bill. Now I'm going to ask you what caused this time shift. Was the impact and weight of this draft initially underestimated, or possible points of dispute, consultative circles, or did unforeseen circumstances arise in the course of the procedure, the resolution of which was much longer than originally envisaged?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U539	I have already replied to our common colleague that, if I do not know the exact reasons, there was a previous coalition when it lasted. Now, I think, like I said, a more active coalition came along and things can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U540	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U541	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I understand that there is a situation around certain specific problems or issues that need to be resolved: the rights of people, the effectiveness of the functioning of both councils and institutions, possible negative effects and possible conflicts between the mandate and the interests of the post. But it's all in the explanatory memorandum that follows from the work of the court. Did the Commission's discussion reveal any other compelling circumstances or were you limited to what the courts did in advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U542	However, the Commission has made its decision and its proposal on how to solve this problem, in the same way, that once a point has been abolished in the law, and in the opposite way, how to resolve this issue in order to avoid potential conflicts of interest. I think this is a balanced solution to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U543	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U544	Thank you. Yes, there is probably a difference of opinion here as to whether today's coalition or previous coalition has been more active or less active. As I was referring to, this bill was initiated by the previous coalition. I have now seen that there have been no amendments by the ambassadors during this procedure, but the Commission itself has made three amendments. I have a two-faced question about this. I would like to ask you to present some of the content of these amendments to us so that they are also explained in human language. Secondly, I have a request that you tell me to remind me when the time for proposing amendments ended. I feel like I may have missed something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U545	I am happy to introduce the amendments. I'll start with the last one. The last amendment, No 3, is that the deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 20 July 2021. The second point regulates what is linked to the date of entry into force of the Act. If, on the basis of a contract of employment, a person who has been elected to a council is employed by a city or municipality authority, he or she shall be given the opportunity to decide within three working days whether he or she wishes to proceed to a council mandate or whether he or she wishes to continue working. If a person wishes to continue working with an authority or does not declare within the time limit that he or she wishes to take part in the work of the council, his or her council member's mandate shall be automatically suspended. It is an implementing provision to implement the law and to be less confusing. I would say that the first amendment is purely technical and I would even venture to believe that the improvement of an earlier minor accident at work in the law. The amendment adds to the draft amendments to § 19 (4) (4) of the Local Government Organisation Act the additions concerning the notification of a municipal or city electoral body. Add 11 and 5, which are the circumstances where the electoral commission is to be informed. 11 is when the mandate of a member of the Government of the Republic suspends the mandate of that member of the Council. Point 5 is when he is in time, substitute or reserve service.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U546	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U547	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Mr. Netship! I very much like this discussion of mutually constructive and creative impulses. With regard to the previous question, I would have been very interested in the extent of the impact of this bill, the same as many people concerned about the number of municipal council members who would like to be contractual employees of the same municipality. You responded very sympatheticly that you do not know the exact number. But can I ask you again? I'm sure you've taken this matter very seriously. What could be the order of magnitude? Let's say, I'm guessing ±50 people. Can you answer that with precision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U548	That is a very difficult question. We do not know how many people are running for office with the aim of actually getting a job in the municipality government or city government, or those who already work in the city or municipality government and decide to apply for the council. We have 79 municipalities, let's say every municipality has at least one of these, then it could also be this number. But this number can't be said, it's quite an honest answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U549	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U550	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, When discussing this issue in the Commission, were there also those affected by this amendment to the draft law? If so, how many were there, how many were you talking to in the Commission and what were the thoughts and feedback of these people on the draft we are discussing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U551	We did not have such people on the Commission. However, I dare to assume, knowing a little bit about this area, that it should rather be favourable to those people who wish to be on the council or to keep themselves open to going back to the council. If they had finished their mandate before, the councilman's mandate will now be suspended, or you will retain your mandate if you also work for the authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U552	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U553	Good manager! Dear waitress, I have to apologize. My tongue slipped before I asked you about the headmasters or the schoolmasters. I wanted to ask if you were also discussing going more broadly with this system so that the school leaders would not be able to participate in the work of the council. That's why I didn't let myself choose in my own time to avoid becoming addicted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U554	Yes, in the light of this issue, this debate is certainly appropriate, but we did not discuss it at this meeting of the Commission. We chose to go the narrower way. So it doesn't concern them right now. But there is a subject that I am sure could be discussed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U555	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U556	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, What feedback did the Supreme Court give on the draft text? Did the Supreme Court find that this text of the bill perfectly covers and eliminates the problems reflected in their decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U557	The Supreme Court has not given feedback to this bill, as far as I know. But when you read the Supreme Court's decision and this bill, I dare to assume that he will solve this problem and comply with this recommendation. There is always more than one solution, but he will solve the problem referred to there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U558	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U559	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'll come back to my last question. We know that Estonia is a place where there are very few active people in smaller municipalities. If this draft is now adopted as a law, then, on the one hand, yes, it just as it creates some legal clarity, but, on the other hand, it can also create completely new corrupt networks, if it is agreed that an existing employee will be elected to the council, and it will be elected and replaced by someone with whom it will cooperate in order to better realise its personal interests in this local government. In my opinion, this draft does not eliminate such risks, but rather, on the contrary, as I said, creates additional risks of hiding crime. Do you agree or disagree?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U560	No, I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U561	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U562	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This draft is initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which you represent here on the floor. However, this draft also has Amendment 1, which has also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This amendment concerns the notification of a municipal or city electoral body where there is one of the grounds for the suspension of a council member's mandate. Now my question is: since this amendment was tabled by the same Committee on Constitutional Affairs which tabled this draft, why had these facts not been taken into account in the original draft? Was the Commission's work done inadequately at the outset, or did this amendment result in some circumstances that were, in the meantime, not to be taken into account at the outset?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U563	I would say that, in my opinion, this is actually an improvement of the technical cull, which has probably been in COKS for a very, very long time. I think that when it came to solving a particular problem, it was not immediately noticed. These things have now been dealt with for a long time and there has been a technical problem that we are now proposing an amendment to and making KOKS more detailed. But it's actually a techno-nuance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U564	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U565	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, Does this law allow the parish cleaner to be a member of the parish council?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U566	If he's working under an employment contract, he can't be both at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U567	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U568	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We were repeatedly talking in the Commission about this important differentiation that, in this case, we are now dealing with either together or separately, either officials or employees. The Legal Adviser to the Regional Administrative Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance was also present to present the Government's position. How, then, was it about officials or employees, or how did we finally have it in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U569	However, this draft relates only to persons working on the basis of an employment contract who, when they are employed by a municipality or city authority on the basis of an employment contract, suspend the mandate of a council member. In the current KOKS, there continues to be a provision on officials that an official's council member's mandate expires.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U570	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U571	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Mart! I have a question about Amendment 2, which supplements the law with § 707 which defines the distinction that a council member who, on 20 July 2021, works for the same municipality or city authority on the basis of a contract of employment must, within three working days of that date, inform the parish or city secretary whether he wishes to take part in the work of the council or to continue working for the same municipality or city authority on the basis of a contract of employment. I admit I'm not very familiar with the work of local governments. What makes this three-day logic? Why is there no more or less time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U572	It's actually very simple. If the previous KOKS provision, which was annulled by the Supreme Court, was in force, there could not actually be such a situation that you are on the council and are working at the same time. Maybe when you worked for city or parish government, your councilman's mandate was over. If, during this period, when the Supreme Court has annulled it, a member of the council has gone to work for the city or rural municipality government, he must now choose, on the basis of this amendment to the law, whether he will continue to work or go to work for the council. It's probably a very small number of people, actually, because there's some kind of six months or a little bit more difference. But the decision must be made quickly to either continue to work on the basis of an employment contract or return to the council. This practice also follows from an analogy with officials: If you turn out to be elected to a council, you will have to make a choice as to whether you will go to the council or, within a few days, decide that you are going to work. You have to make that choice. It has to be quick, unambiguous and understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U573	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U574	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear waitress, My question is not quite about this draft, but perhaps you discussed it in the committee. Was there also a debate that what a big problem, if any, is a problem in our municipalities is that local government leaders motivate the heads of their sub-offices, say softly, in the local government elections to stand on the right list and if you do not, maybe you lose your job? Did you have any such discussion? It's not exactly the subject of this bill, but maybe you were discussing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U575	Yeah, we didn't discuss it in the framework of this bill. What is the subject that has been discussed in the past, which will probably continue to be discussed and which will need to be discussed in the future. It is probably worth considering this seriously during the KOKS review and discussing whether it is worth making any changes, as unfortunately in some municipalities there may be such a practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U576	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U577	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I agree, in principle, that, in fact, it is not possible to allow a situation in which the head of the local government is his superiors in the council. It's outrageous, it's very reasonable in that respect. But the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities proposed that this suspension of the council member's mandate could also be extended to officials. This is not in this draft; it was obviously not supported in the Commission. Why don't you tell me a little bit about this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U578	Yeah, well, this has been a long debate since the draft was launched, I think, and certainly before that. At the moment, this bill is rather urgent because it would be worth creating legal clarity for future local elections in order to avoid those situations where the office ends when you work as an official, with no restrictions on your contract of employment, you can be on the council and work at the same time. Since the Supreme Court and the Chancellor of Justice have said that the termination is too disproportionate a measure, the suspension of the mandate of a member of the central council is a matter of suspension. But to harmonise them, we need a longer discussion, a longer discussion. I think it makes sense to do this exactly in the course of this same revision of the Local Government Organisation Act. I believe we can hold this debate many more times in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U579	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U580	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, The Chancellor of Justice made a rather critical assessment of this. I quote some of his points of view: " Combining the employment of an agency with the position of a council member does not guarantee legal clarity in order to avoid conflicts of interest. The conflict of interests lies at the heart of the conflict between the official's duties and his private interests. The Chancellor of Justice notes that a person working under a contract of employment in the same rural municipality or city administration who has become a member of a council has a private interest in maintaining his or her position in the administration or in establishing a new office for him or her. " Why, then, was the Chancellor of Justice rejected and maintained at the request of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U581	I have this feeling that maybe you've read a little arbitrary reading of a passage that doesn't fit the context. In fact, the Supreme Court made this decision at the request of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice went to the Riigikogu to present his proposal. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal has been that this provision of KOKS is contrary to the Constitution, that which restricts working and belonging to the council, i.e. the termination of the mandate of a council member. The aim of the Chancellor of Justice was to so-called weaken these conditions and to limit people's rights less. I think you're a little wrong about your question right now. The Chancellor of Justice actually supports such a more flexible solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U582	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U583	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Why did they only take on this little piece of coke? As a former head of self-government, you are aware that there are many more problems and bottlenecks to solve. Why was only this little piece taken up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U584	Yes, again, we did not discuss this in the Commission. But the COKS audit is in progress. I have already explained why this point was needed now, before the municipal elections: to create legal clarity and resolve this issue. But surely, the wider discussion of KOKS will arrive in this hall at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U585	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U586	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! It certainly creates a certain degree of legal clarity in the draft law. It may even be right that it describes what someone has to do, how to define themselves, and at the same time it creates a certain legislative safety net that is completely humane. But I come back to this paragraph from the explanatory memorandum, where the Supreme Court says that the court admits that there may still be a conflict of role, conflict of interest and possible risk of corruption. My pennies described a case to you. You didn't agree with that. I'm going to describe another case to you. For example, an employee of a company belonging to the city will stand for election, receive a council and audit committee and begin to review his former company. He knows the problems and abuses there, he has the information to overlook, and he does it, and the corruption in the city's company remains undiscovered. We've seen it repeatedly and repeatedly in this capital city. Do you agree that there might be such a threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U587	We did not discuss such a case in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U588	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U589	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good, Mart! In fact, you've been wrong here a couple of times and, of course, not because of the bad, but just because you don't know the previous debates that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has had. These questions have been repeatedly asked why the officials end, where the staff member stops and why this was not done together. That's the kind of question I've been asking. I am simply saying, for the sake of the protocol, that this question was because there was a decision of the Supreme Court College from 3-4-1-52-14 in 2014, where this decision has been made on officials and because the Supreme Court has taken a stand against officials, we took a stand against employees this time. It's like a commentary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U590	Got it. Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U591	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U592	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! When we considered the previous draft law, we found that the right of Members of the European Parliament to stand as candidates in municipal elections is due to the fact that people have the right to stand as candidates and to be elected. According to this bill, a person has to make a difficult decision. It must limit its freedom of action, while, for example, the MEP does not have to limit anything, it can be peacefully in two places at once. Did you also discuss personal freedom in the Commission? Do we really expect a person to apply for a local government with bad intentions to retaliate like a former boss? Especially given that the local authority is a collegiate body.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U593	No, we did not discuss it, but I think this provision protects the same person now. If you do not sit on two chairs at a time, perhaps sometimes you may find it impossible to understand the conflict of interest that has occurred. It also creates legal clarity at a legislative level for this person and eliminates certain risks, whether malicious or unknown.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U594	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U595	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mart, first of all, I would like to thank you for your meaningful answer to my previous question. But I will ask you about the further procedure of this draft. What is the plan of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: do you want to carry out the third reading at the spring session, too, or is there a plan B, so that, if for some reason, it does not succeed, what will be the consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U596	As I said before, on June 16th, the plan is to do this third reading. I very much hope that, regardless of politics, we will have a common agreement on a cross-group issue and we will be able to adopt this law nicely, because it would help to give a clear message to people, potential candidates, workers in the municipal elections that will come in autumn, what are the rules of the game that must take into account. People can make their choices then. I think it is very important that such a reasonable long time is a notice, for people to make their choice. My proposal is to adopt it together, and I think it is in the interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U597	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U598	Thank you. I have this question as to whether the head of the municipality's branch may be a member of the parish council.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U599	Yeah, it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U600	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U601	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When you think back about the election, do you have any data on the magnitude of how many people this change might affect? Are there dozens, hundreds or thousands of them in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U602	I don't have the data.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U603	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U604	Thank you. In the case of the switch-off of draft laws, there are always two specific things in the Commission that are being done in the course of the procedure. Point 1 is inclusion. Has it been done? Point 2 is an impact analysis. Was there an impact analysis, and if not, why? For the Commission, the impact analysis would certainly also have described the cases that we brought here and on which, unfortunately, you had nothing to say, and perhaps many other cases. But if an impact analysis had been carried out, I think it might have given us a slightly different picture of the impact of the entire bill on local governments in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U605	Yeah. Yeah, well, I have to tell you. I'm pretty much, I think, said and explained that impact analysis, I think, is enough. This is the debate held and brought here by the Chancellor of Justice in the Riigikogu, the appeal to the Supreme Court, the thorough Supreme Court decision, and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has also given their opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U606	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U607	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question of continuation is due to your previous response. You said that local government employees sometimes get into a conflict of interest without their own knowledge. As an experienced self-government person, perhaps you can tell us whether the conflict of interest that you are not aware of is somehow a common practice in Estonian municipalities? How much does it even happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U608	It's hard to say in numbers, but I think we can also get an overview of this in the media when there are problems and they haven't been confirmed. But in terms of numbers, I can't say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U609	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U610	Thank you, Vice President. Good waitress! What problems do you want to solve with this bill? You've given short and laconic answers, but to people who don't share so much background, maybe you can explain with at least two sentences what problem you're going to solve?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U611	Yeah, I do. We are solving this problem that the Local Government Organisation Act contained a provision according to which a person, when he worked in the local government administration and had applied for a council, had to choose whether he would go to the council or remain in that authority and his mandate would end, both as an official and in the case of working on a contract of employment. On the basis of the application or application of the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court has ruled that this is contrary to the Constitution, the provision that says that a person who works on the basis of a contract of employment in a local government must choose whether he will continue to work or his mandate ends, and the Supreme Court has annulled this point. With this draft, when it becomes a law, we include in the Local Government Organisation Act the point that a person working in a city and rural municipality institution can choose whether he or she will continue to work and his council member's mandate will stop, or he or she will not lose the mandate, he or she may go to do so on leaving the job, or, yes, he or she will continue with the council's mandate and will not work anymore. That is the problem and the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U612	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U613	Thank you. Dear waitress, Today you have been asked different things about this same bill, and there are, of course, answers. However, ordinary citizens may not be so well guided in the course of this debate and also in legislation. Since you are the rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, maybe you can give an example of how a citizen can understand by process how he should operate so that he can implement one or the other option.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U614	Thank you. I think I explained this to my colleague, Tarmo Kruusimäe, precisely enough, and that was understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U615	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U616	Good manager! Good Mart! A perfectly normal thing, I waited for you here a long time ago, here was all this bullshit about interpreting our basic document. But I ask you this: Don't you think we're flying too low? Before that, the Financial Supervision Authority was the subject, and at night we discussed how judicial decisions had to change the law. It's the same now. Let's take these little pieces. As you said, there is no impact analysis and it is not known how many people are affected. My question is, should we fly higher? There are so many things, the constitution has been dug out in some places. Does the Reform Party plan to fly higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U617	Thank you, Peter! First of all, it's always good to be in this chair when you know you're welcome. I'm happy for that. Of course, more can always be done, but ex-legislative work must be balanced and, if there is no real consensus yet on some things, time must be taken to think and discuss. I think we're flying at a reasonable pace and at a reasonable speed. In matters that have become clear, we will agree, and we will discuss those that need to be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U618	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U619	Thank you! Good waitress! I have realized that civil society, the NGOs that deal with it, was not really involved here. This is probably also due to the fact that you still prefer representative democracy, not, say, inclusion policy. Is it in any other process that we are still following a court settlement and let civil society eat hay, the elected representatives decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U620	It's still the case-law. But I really cannot imagine how to involve civil society on this council and on this issue of workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U621	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U622	Good manager! Good Mart! That's my question. Since the Supreme Court's decision entered into force on October 17th, it will soon be Midsummer Day and 16. [June], more than six months later, we want to accept it, so how has this vacuum affected the real landscape? Do you have any idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U623	I don't think anything bad's happened right now. Some people are on the council and are working at the same time, but now legal clarity is created, there is clear guidance on how to behave, and must make a decision. I think the most important thing is that we will give a clear message as soon as possible for the next municipal elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U624	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U625	Thank you. Dear waitress, I am interested in the special nature of the implementation of this law. On 20 July 2021, a member of the Council who is employed by the same municipality or city authority on the basis of an employment contract shall, within three working days of that date, inform the Municipality or City Secretary if he wishes to take part in the work of the Council or to continue to work in the same municipality or city authority on the basis of an employment contract. If a person wishes to continue working with an authority or does not declare within the time limit that he or she wishes to take part in the work of the council, the mandate of his or her member of the council shall be suspended. There is now a situation where 20 July 2021 has been designated for the implementation of this draft. But what processes will take place if this law does not enter into force by then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U626	I believe he will come into force. It's in our hands, and I understand from your questions that this is a good bill. So let's do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U627	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U628	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In fact, this correction is rather problematic. We create a situation where, figuratively speaking the municipality, it is then a municipality or city government... I mean, we bring an employee with a contract of employment to the level of a parish or city government member. He stops by the time he goes to the council, the job, let's say when he's working, he's still working on a contract, he's stopping his job and he can be on a council. Like being on two chairs at once is quite problematic and actually quite questionable. Indeed, why is such a change still needed? It is easy to point out that it is as if the Constitution wants or requires.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U629	Good Heiki, you just came into the hall. It's early morning, but read the bill thoroughly. Today, this is a situation where you can have a contract of employment and at the same time have a council. On the basis of this bill, the person must choose whether to be on the council or to be employed on a contract of employment, i.e. there will be no two chairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U630	Good waitress, no more questions for you. I will open negotiations and the first word will be given to Riho Breivel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U631	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good waitress! Let's look at the law amending the Local Government Organisation Act. True, this law, when it becomes a law, will certainly solve a number of gaps in the existence of our municipality, how to say. But he doesn't solve all the gaps again. If we're looking at the problems of people working on a contract of employment, this is where the court settlements are. In addition to the rural municipality reform, it is, of course, much easier to organise this as well, because the rural municipalities are bigger and it is also possible to walk around with the workforce a little bit, how to say it, not more freely, but more meaningfully. Of course, this does not solve this wider problem, which also concerns the heads of the rural municipality's departments and other persons who are on the parish's payroll, practically on the parish's payroll, but can also make decisions on the council's own behalf. I myself have a negative opinion that this could be the case. Although I have argued with municipal officials and councillors on these matters, and sometimes even I have been convinced that this is the right solution. However, in a democratic society, I do not think that a person can give himself an order, that he himself should lead himself and pay his own salary, how to say, on the account of society, for the activities he decides on himself. This is not the right approach. This is precisely the approach that young colleague Reuben said here just before. In totalitarian regimes, this system worked, practically speaking of the principle of democratic centralism, that we decide together and then the individual executes these decisions. Of course, this principle is great. As you read the Soviet textbook on the control and supervision of the party's decisions, there is a very detailed description of the process of collective decision-making and how one person theoretically starts implementing them and is empowered to do so. This is an idealistic approach, because here will be the exact processes we are talking about and why we are facing the Riigikogu with this decision. These processes, human weakness, are starting to play. This often leads to a person's decision for his own good. This power will be given in democratically, but power will be given in hand, and that means that a weak person will often decide for the sake of his loved ones, for his own good. That's not good. This is not right in a democratic country. In a democratic country there must be democratic control at all times in order not to let a person become weak. It's very important. I'll take two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U632	Please! Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U633	It's very important not to be tempted. There's a lot of strong people. The Riigikogu is full of strong people and there are many more in our society who cannot fit in here. But there are also weak people and there are also malicious people who are very happy to choose those positions where they can add greater value to their values. So I think that in this situation, this bill fulfils its purpose, all the more so because the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court have viewed it positively. However, this is only the first step: we must resolve these issues as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U634	Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U635	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the Commission said somehow that today's coalition has been more active and constructive or efficient than the previous coalition. I don't know what he measured it or appreciated it on. This draft was initiated by the coalition in power during the summer of last year, as we know, immediately after the Supreme Court came to a decision. As we know, the Riigikogu does not meet in the summer. September, October, November, December (December is in addition half a month) and the short of January, a total of four months. Then came the new coalition. We have already missed more than four months since the beginning of the new coalition. I cannot say that one coalition has progressed faster than the other. But good. The things I think are that if we are dealing here with various draft laws in the Riigikogu, some of them are important and some of them are less important. This bill is undoubtedly important, but it actually smells like legal nose pecking. For many years there has been a rule in local governments in Estonia that the employees of the local government cannot belong to the council, for the simple reason that an employee who receives a salary through the municipality government cannot go to the municipal government to be the boss. Then there is no understanding of who is in charge: whether the municipality government is the boss of the employee or whether the employee is the boss of the municipality government. It would probably be very difficult to negotiate reasonable terms in wage negotiations. There's been talk about the threat of corruption. In the course of this debate, which we have just had here, I think it became quite clear that it is not this employment relationship itself that is corrupt. Conflicts of interest are what are the main issues here, corruption still comes from elsewhere. But for a relatively incomprehensible reason, the Chancellor of Justice contested the prohibition of such work at the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court made, I would say, no unreasonable decision at all. He felt that the ban was, indeed, to some extent contrary to people's rights, but admitted that the prohibition was justified in substance. I'll read you a little bit about it here. In April last year, the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court declared its judgment in Case 5-19-45 KOKS § 18, which provides for the early termination of the mandate of a council member when a member of the council is employed by the same municipality or city authority on the basis of a contract of employment. According to the Supreme Court, this is a ban on reconciling occupations that violates the passive right of election of the elected person, namely his right to hold a council member's mandate. At the same time, the Supreme Court also found that the provision infringes § 29 of the Constitution, which guarantees the fundamental right to freely choose the occupation, profession and employment. However, the Court acknowledged that the restriction on the reconciliation of work between a council member and an official body is justified by the conflict of role arising or by the conflict of interest, as well as the possible risk of corruption. As a result, the Constitutional Court proposed that there could be such a solution that the mandate would not be withdrawn, but that the mandate would temporarily be suspended. Basically, the solution to the court is what has come to this Chamber of the Riigikogu. I agree with two things that came out of this debate. Firstly, I believe that it is necessary to improve the Local Government Organisation Act significantly more thoroughly than by just one section. It is regrettable that the impulse of the Supreme Court did not bring together all the scorching problems that have been raised for a long time and were not made into a single law. It is possible that politically it is very difficult to agree, regardless of what coalitions are. This is very clear on what was on the previous item, i.e. the question of vertical power. Nearly half of the members of this Riigikogu are people who are members of a council in one local government or another. As soon as we start changing the organisation of local government at state level, at the level of the Riigikogu, each of those who are somewhere on the council as a member of the council will start to view it not as determining the policy of the state, but instead look at it from the point of view of the council member. Now I come back to this solution. For me, the other major problem with this law is that it has not really been solved, what happens when a person has an employment relationship. At least I have not understood that it would have been solved if a person had an employment relationship, not on the basis of a contract of employment, but on the basis of a contract of command. This means that this solution simply pushes this whole problem out of our sight. But there is still a well-known and understandable "circleway" or a way to bypass it. It was, by the way, one of those things that, as soon as we started this law last year or when the coalition discussed it last year, rose. I didn't understand why the bill didn't want to solve it or how farther it wasn't meant. So, in fact, when we look at the amendments, this issue has not been resolved either, which is unfortunate, of course. So from a small paragraph, a huge legal unit has been built, which has been debated for a year and has reached a solution that will temporarily interrupt the mandate instead of ending the mandate. Well, I don't know if it's been worth the time we've spent here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U636	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U637	Thank you very much. I'll take three more minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U638	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U639	Good people! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill with number 212 actually highlights one important problem very well. This clearly shows our country's systemic problem. Like any bad system, there may be good ivs, as well as the terrible systemic problem that the country is engulfed in, this bad bill has actually turned out to be a relatively good thing, as strange as it is. But the problem is systemic in the sense that this bill proves how things are wrong in our country. Consider a simple example. Our country is, as we know, built up on the principle of separation of powers, because it is one of the foundations of democracy. According to this, we should have legislative power, law-making power and judicial power separated, a taboo with three equal legs, which must uniformly bear the weight of this country. But it is precisely this bill that shows very clearly how this taboo does not work and it cannot work. Think about it, we have one of the stool legs for four years, another stool leg for four years, but the third stool leg, this court foot, is lifelong. I mean, somewhere something gives in, breaks down, and this solution shows that yes, it is broken. Because look, like I said, a good thing can happen in a bad thing. I'm going back to what Martin Helme said when he said it was nose pecking, but not bad. Yeah, it's really not bad. He actually started a completely pointless thing, a problem like none at all, just the Chancellor of Justice for a moment turned to the court because he felt that something was wrong. Now the court began to deal with the matter, whether it was wrong or not, he asked all the institutes whether it was wrong or not. We come to the foreplay of this bill, which was in Supreme Court judgment 5-19-45. Here the Supreme Court did indeed address the reasons of the Chancellor of Justice to both the founder of the law and the enforcer of the law and asked whether anything was wrong. Everyone said nothing was wrong, everything's okay when you interpret the law. Then the court thought, as Martin said, the nose pecked and said it was wrong. Wow! And where are we going now? Again, there is the law: for whom has the law been made? Is the law made for humans? Unfortunately, in our society, this thing is very broken. No, we don't make laws for people, we make laws for interpretation, for lawyers, for someone to get maybe some more comfortable service. The fact is, the laws that are meant for people and to comply with them do not work, people do not understand them. The Minister of State Administration said: no, it is in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu said that it is consistent. The Minister of Justice said: it is in accordance with the law. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities said: it is not contrary to the Constitution. The Supreme Court said: it is contrary to the Constitution. In short, good friends, we have a systemic problem and we have to resolve this systemic problem sooner or later. There are several possibilities. One possibility is that, indeed, according to the principle of separation of powers, three legs are equal and equally bearable. But it is not that one is very strong and then the same story happens that some politicians who have been in power for four years or local government workers who have been in power for four years do not understand anything, but life-long judges say how the law must be understood. Maybe you guys are doing the law, but the court will tell you how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U640	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U641	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U642	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U643	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to get stuck on the bull so I don't delay your time for nothing. I agree, without doubt, that the [organisation] law of the local government should be amended as a whole. The EKRE has submitted a draft which would allow local government councils to lay down a statute allowing binding referendums in local governments. But now, coming back to the subject, we are still discussing the rights of the local government council members of the Republic of Estonia, their role, expectations of their role and who can be a council member and who cannot. However, this issue cannot be seen apart from the role of other elected officials, because, as I have said before, the system of government must be dealt with in a systematic, complex way and, if you want to use the modern word, holistically. For example, it cannot be that a member of the local government council cannot work as a janitor in the same municipality, but the President of the Republic of Estonia can also work as director of the President's office. Therefore, in the interests of the context, let us look at the role of the Head of State as an initiative, which in turn depends on how the Head of State gets into this office, or what the process of his election is. In the previous part of my review series, I concluded with the observation that the claim that the absence of a presidential office will lead to a rapid change of government is not bad, because the existence of an institution of the Head of State has not protected national governments from instability. It does not extend the lifespan of governments. It would also be difficult to claim that the last two Estonian presidents in office had somehow balanced the Estonian political system. But the speed of the change of governments is not a scourge in Estonia today. It was therefore my conclusion that as a guarantor of political stability, a presidency is not necessary. But I still dare to think that there will be no political will or the will of the people in Estonia to implement the system that was in Estonia in the 1920s, which would be unique throughout Europe. However, and now I'm going from here to here, the people have the will to get the President directly elected. Although, let's just say that the President-elect has denied it, he said some time ago to the Latvian newspaper that this topic is not topical in Estonia. But the figures and the facts show you. In a survey commissioned by the Institute of Social Studies in March of this year, 33% of Estonian adult citizens answered the question of whether the people should choose the president directly, yes and 30% rather yes, 21% said no and only 10% clearly said no. I would point out, for the sake of accuracy, that 6% did not have an opinion. I daresay there is also political will to directly elect the President. From 1993 until now, even 12 drafts have been submitted to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, two of which would provide for the direct election of the President. The draft submitted by Lennart Meri in 2001 also provided for other amendments to the Constitution, but all these drafts have been relatively similar with regard to the presidential election procedure. The differences are only in the details. All these drafts, in total 14, state that the presidential candidate must be a citizen of the Republic of Estonia who is at least 40 years old. The three drafts submitted in the last eight years and the alternatives to the previous 2002 and 2003 drafts, as well as the draft 2001 and the draft submitted by President Lennart Meri in the same year, are entirely similar in substance. A party or at least 10000 citizens of the Republic of Estonia with a right to appoint a candidate for the President of the Republic shall have the right to vote in these drafts and shall be declared elected a candidate by whom more than half of the votes cast have been cast. If no candidate receives the required majority, a second round of votes shall be held between the two candidates who have received the most votes. In the case of an equal number of votes, the older of the votes shall be declared elected. Due to the similarity of these drafts, it can be argued that a common understanding has even developed in our politics, a consensus on how the direct selection procedure should be conducted in Estonia. Not only has the draft direct election of the President not been submitted in the current Parliament, but there are currently 27 members of this very Parliament who have once submitted a draft direct election of the President, from Jürgen Ligi to Urmas Reinsalun. The record man is Mikhail Stalnukhin, who has submitted a draft direct election to the President as many as six times. Now let's look at the broader context. Of the European Union's Member States, 14 are directly elected as presidents, i.e. just over half of the countries. These countries include Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Ireland, Cyprus, Lithuania, Poland, Portugal, France, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Finland and the Czech Republic. The presidential election process in these countries is quite similar and similar to the draft proposed in Estonia. Almost all countries have the same one-to-two-step procedure: if the first round of elections is not elected, the second round will come. In all of them, in the second round, the two candidates with the highest votes in the first round compete, and in the second round, the one who gets the most votes wins. I mean, no more candidates in the second round. The majority required to win the first round is somewhat different. This is usually the majority of voters, but Bulgaria and Lithuania have an additional condition that more than 50% of citizens with the right to vote must take part in the first round. Unfortunately, I have to drop out of this particularly interesting place, but I hope I have a chance to get to the bottom of my story today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U644	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U645	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U646	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U647	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that the draft that we are dealing with here is important. But I would like to begin not specifically with this provision, which is set out in this draft, but with the principle. The situation in which a parish government or a parish elder or a mayor gets elected to the council and, by doing so, he is, of course, the commander of that parish elder or mayor is not normal or acceptable, because the whole internal hierarchy can therefore be turned upside down. The situation would be the same if, for example, a common soldier in the Defence Forces could, under any circumstances, take command of the General. In this respect, the restrictions imposed on officials and employees with a contract of employment are fully justified. If they become elected, they will have to give up their work or on a suitable council. The Supreme Court has now found that for some reason employees with a contract of employment should be granted an exception. But in fact, we all know that the city government as a structure is unified. Once, when another reform was carried out, officials and contract workers were separated. Before, they were all the same company. So basically, maybe there's a little difference in responsibility, but there's no other difference in substance. In this respect, I do not consider the Supreme Court's decision to be very well founded if they refer to the Constitution here. As I pointed out in my previous speech, for example in the case of the two chairs Act, i.e. whether members of the Riigikogu are allowed to participate in the work of local councils or not, there have been totally cardinal differences over the years. Both the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court have said that it is unconstitutional, that it cannot be allowed, and then, in a few years' time, both the new Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court have found that it is not unconstitutional if the members of the Riigikogu participate in the work of the councils. So, in fact, we see that the Supreme Court has rather been based here on a so-called political order and political trends. That, in my opinion, is not an absolutely good trend. But with that particular provision, as it is, I'm not going to run into barricades for that. But if they did, they could have made much more profound and fundamental changes, because let's be honest, it's totally out of date. One of the key issues from which we should start is the rights and obligations of municipalities. Today, indeed, municipalities have a number of responsibilities and are being put on a row and in a row. In fact, it is important to extend and increase the rights of local governments, the autonomy of local authorities themselves, to decide more areas than has been the case so far. It would also make it easier to manage the state as such, because today, after all, very many of the tasks of the state are, in fact, with rights, with the corresponding funding, with everything, namely, with the decision-making powers, possible to make the local governments' tasks. But, as I emphasised, precisely with the expansion of rights and finances. The municipality's revenue base is, of course, equally in the way of time. While during the previous economic crisis the revenue base of the municipalities was reduced by about a third, although the economic crisis came out, the revenue base did not return to the level that was when it was reduced. The previous government, yes, greatly increased the revenue base of the municipalities again, in this respect the major steps have been taken, but this is not enough, especially when looking at the responsibilities and tasks that the municipality has to carry out. It must certainly be assumed that life in Estonia must be possible everywhere, and it will inevitably introduce certain distinctions, regional differences, regional tax distinctions. You could also review, speaking of the income base, that not only land tax is received by municipalities plus a certain proportion of income tax, but also corporate income tax, which was received in part by the municipality in which the company is located. This principle should be restored. It was lost in 1994. This would give the municipalities the opportunity to make incentives for entrepreneurship in turn, in the form of infrastructure or the construction of whatever, as well as the training of employees. One moment that I want to talk about quickly is the introduction of elements of direct democracy into local governments so that people living in local governments have the right to initiate referendums, drafts. Surveys and referendums may also be conducted in municipalities today, but they are not binding. It is the referendums launched by the people, which are binding, that would make a significant contribution to involving people in local life and solving the challenges facing them. So the field of work is very large and it should be dealt with seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U648	Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the chairman's break to prepare the session of the Riigikogu at 10 a.m. The session of the Riigikogu will continue at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U649	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the 9th June briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U650	25 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and 76 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab and Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo. There are two minutes to ask each question, three minutes to answer. Dear colleagues, since 11 questions have been received, I propose that there is one point in detail and one additional question in each question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U651	The first question is asked by Riigikogu member Raivo Tamm, the member of the Government of the Republic, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is Estonia's relations with neighbouring countries. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U652	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question concerns labour migration in Estonia and Finland. The current restrictions in Finland have separated families and cut off a large proportion of people's income. Thousands of people haven't seen their family members in five months. Riho Terras, along with other members of the Estonian European Parliament, has made an inquiry to the European Commission about the violation of the principle of free movement in Finland. The European Commission drew attention to the same problem already in February. On the initiative of my groupmate Urmas Reinsalu, we also made a statement to this effect to the Finnish Parliament. You recently met the Finnish ambassador. Do you not feel that you should have taken the lead in solving this deadlock much earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U653	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U654	Thank you. I've been trying to solve this deadlock since January. We have constantly had conversations and meetings with the Finnish Prime Minister, where I have expressed the same concern. For a very long time, our viral situation was quite different; they pointed out precisely the epidemiological reasons why the borders cannot still be opened in this way. The latest decisions, of course, are no longer justified by epidemiological grounds. At least these reasons do not bear in this respect, the reliefs that have been made are clearly unfair. Since then, these working groups, which are between foreign ministries, have also been in contact to find this solution. But the Finnish government has been very rigid here. In Finland, of course, local elections will also come this weekend. We hope that after that, things will get better. But everything you said about this situation being incomprehensible is true. Finland is a little bit maybe trapped in its good corona indicators. They have set themselves a very low goal. This is the country from which they allow Finland: 25 is the number of people infected. They have set it lower than in the European Union. It is relatively difficult for the government to change. But this is in any case unnecessary given that in Finland older people have been vaccinated, the Finnish health system is very good and there is no real epidemiological risk. I just feel like there's other reasons back there. But we'll keep working on it. In the next few days, we are also planning further steps to persuade Finland. Let's hope there's a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U655	Now, the question to be specified. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U656	Thank you. I have read the title from the Foreign Minister that Estonia has done everything to ensure that this labour migration is restored. How do you comment on that? Can you confirm that the government and the Foreign Minister have really done everything?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U657	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U658	Thank you. Well, that's the question of balance, isn't it? On the one hand, yes, we have working groups between foreign ministries, we have contacts between foreign ministers, we also have contacts between health ministers. The Minister of Health in Finland is the person who directs these matters very much and decides. We have contacts at Prime Minister level. I think we have spoken five or six times, we have met in the Councils and we have talked, we have spoken separately on this subject, but so far we have failed. Of course, where does the line go where things get so-called evil? On the one hand, we still need good relations with our neighbours. That is why we have tried to keep it friendly, to understand their concerns as well, and to highlight all that we have done to ensure that labour migration is open. For example, in the case of shipping, negative tests are also foreseen before boarding, i.e. ships themselves check that these people are safe for health. We've offered different options. It is always possible to take steps and get even worse, but we must also look at the bigger picture, so that we can still keep our relations between Estonia and Finland. Finland is an important business partner and an important cooperation partner at all levels. That is why we are trying to understand their concerns, but we are also trying to show that this is, in fact, already a humanitarian situation for us. Really, as you said, families haven't seen each other, people have to choose between work and place of residence. It shouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U659	Now, one more question. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U660	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I will continue on this subject. You rightly pointed out on several occasions that relations between Estonia and Finland are important. But I think, and I also want to understand your opinion, whether it is more important for relations between our countries or for our government to stand up for and deal with our people. Raivo asked that Eva-Maria Liimets has said that she has done everything she can. I didn't quite understand whether you were of the same opinion that we have already done everything we can, but you started to say that you will have things to do in the coming days. Yesterday I read that you said about your coalition partner's chairman that this was a two-faced act. I'm looking at what's going on in Finland. With Sweden they do not have such problems and Sweden's infection rates are higher than ours. Isn't that two-faced behavior?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U661	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U662	Thank you. Firstly, they have exactly the same restrictions on Sweden as they do on Estonia. This concerns both Sweden and Estonia, just Sweden does not have that kind of pain, as Finns go to work in Sweden rather than the Swedes come to work in Finland. The movement is a secondary one. Of course, the government stands for the interests of the Estonian people, we fight for them, but it is also in the interests of the Estonian people that we get along well with our neighbouring countries so that we get along well with our allies. So these interests are in no way in the opposite direction, but they are clearly in the same direction. What are the steps we can still take? Firstly, at European level, we are drawing attention to these measures by Finland. We have also raised this issue in the European Council and in the European Commission, so that Finland does not actually apply the recommendations that have been agreed, as we have agreed. The European Commission also has tools to call Finland to order. Speaking at European level, Finland is the only one who applies these restrictions in this way. Not all other countries are sticking to their borders anymore. That's unreasonable. Given that elections will also come in Finland, perhaps after the elections they will still be more prone to decide that they will fully open up this labour migration. We'll keep pressure on them. I'm sure I'm not saying we're sitting there with our hands up, not doing anything anymore. On the contrary, we use all the tools we have for this, and these tools do not end directly. This pressure must continue in order to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U663	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U664	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by Helle-Moonika Helme, member of the Riigikogu, corresponding to the member of the government, Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo. The subject is "In relation to children with diabetes." Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U665	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo! My question is, yes, 'As regards children with diabetes', but maybe I'll go a little bit wider on my question. Just for information, the parents of children with diabetes are currently watching this briefing and are waiting for answers. On 3 February 2021, in a long interview with Kaja Kärner, you defended the activities of the Social Insurance Board in the last two years due to a reduction in the determination of disability. Do we need to understand that you approve of depriving sick children, our most vulnerable target group, of the trees? Unfortunately, that thought didn't ring a bell. In your interview, you directed the disabled children to the local authorities for help. However, you know that local governments do not help children if the Minister has said that raising all children is a challenge for parents and if the Social Insurance Board writes in the disability decision that the child does not need outside help, even though the need for outside help is confirmed by both the parents and treating doctors. Do you think it is right that neither children's doctors nor parents' descriptions of the actual livelihood of their family are taken into account in the Social Insurance Board, nor are local governments taken into account? Are we going to leave those in need alone in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U666	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U667	Thank you, dear questioner. Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, the first type of diabetes is a severe chronic disease which can also be progressive, but the child's condition may vary quite differently in different cases. As of May, Estonia had children aged 0 to 15 who had been defined as having a degree of disability together with a diagnosis of diabetes, 542. There were 19 16 to 18-year-olds. All children with the first type of diabetes who have applied for the severity of the disability have also reached at least the average degree of disability. I stress, at least the average. There may certainly be minors with first-type diabetes who, for various reasons, do not consider it necessary to identify the severity of the disability, because, as I have already said, the conditions of children may be quite different. With regard to the support provided by the local government, on the basis of the Child Protection Act adopted at the end of 2015, we consider any child who, inter alia, has a need for assistance because of his or her medical condition, which is more than one-off or which requires the provision of several different aid measures. In such a case, it is the responsibility of the local authority to assess the child's need for help within 10 days, to involve the parent in the process, to ask for the child's opinion and to fix it, and to plan aid measures for the child. Since autumn 2015, with the support of the European Social Fund (ESF), the country has allocated €7 to €8 million per year to support children with severe and deep disabilities to local authorities. This means that local authorities have both a resource to help children and a legal obligation to do so. What further has the country done for the diabetics and their parents? In cooperation with parents and the diabetes association, the support measures that children and families need have been assessed. Among other things, this year has been discussing how better to organise children's summer camps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U668	Now, the question to be specified. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U669	Thank you. Yeah, it's a nice story, you can't talk about anything else. But at the same time, just like now, in that interview, you approve of the state's move to reject your assignments to local governments. At the same time, you confirm that the individual can cope with integrated and child-respecting assistance. As long as receiving assistance is not equal across Estonia, the social welfare system should still provide all children with the help they need. Also, in that interview, you compare seriously ill and disabled children to any other child with behavioural concerns, concerns with friends or cough and cold, and claim that all parents should work harder for their children. Is this now a formal and particularly liberal social protection policy of the Liberal Reform Party, based on Excel and cost-effectiveness, not on actual content and need, so that the focus is on coping with the child and his family and their European Union country and citizen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U670	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U671	Thank you for the additional question. The state has its own tasks and the local government has its own tasks and, of course, it is primarily the parent who stands up for the interests of his or her child. It is also fixed in this way in the Child Protection Act. The task of the state is to help children with special needs and their families. It has been organised by the State in such a way as to assess the child's ancillary needs, depending on his or her medical condition, and to be assigned or identified as a disability. After that, the child has the right to benefit from a disabled child, which only a few years ago, according to the degree of disability, doubled or tripled and is quite a significant additional allowance to compensate for the additional needs of the child due to the disability. I believe that this aid is quite extensive. If we also look at the studies, the studies show that the extent of the aid needs described by the parents in the financial dimension is currently exceeded in the key to this support. In addition, children with a disability are entitled to public rehabilitation services and children with previously mentioned first-type diabetes also have access to rehabilitation services. So the tasks of the state we do not push to the local government, simply the local government has additional tasks, which are primarily related to prevention, because we all know that, regardless of this cause and the deterioration of the health situation, the journey is through which we reach the level of disability. It is also possible to do quite a lot of preventive work to prevent the child's health from deteriorating. Yes, diagnosis often cannot be avoided, but within the framework of this diagnosis, it is possible to assist the child proactively so that his or her need for help does not grow too high.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U672	Thank you. Now for an additional question. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U673	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A good professional has already asked this question, which is relevant to diabetes children. I'm going to expand a little: disabled children at all and their parents' livelihoods. In part, in your reply you hinted that local authorities had been allocated additional funds from European Union funds to support them and said: children with severe and deep disabilities. It's child care money. But here's the question. No law has changed, but the principles of status assessment have changed, since less and less children are given either severe or severe disability. You also pointed out that at least the middle trees have got them. The valuation practice has changed, but at the same time local authorities have put very many times into effect, not on the basis of the child's need for help, but on the basis of the existence of disability. This is the problem when a severe or deep disability is lost. No parent wants to have a child with a severe or deep disability, but it has opened the door to services and it also provides a chance for rehabilitation. If, for example, there is no specific service on the site, the money paid to a child with a deep disability can be bought from a distance. We do not have the coverage guaranteed by this all over Estonia. In fact, the evaluation system should not change until local authorities are ready to provide these services. It is not a question of a disability, but of a child getting help and not being in trouble. I know you've been dealing with this subject, but parents still have a lot of problems and concerns. That is actually true, which my colleague pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U674	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U675	Thank you very much, Mrs Helmen Kütt, for your question. I'll be more specific for a second. In addition to childcare, the support person service is available and both services can also be used for transport. Financing arrangements have also changed since this year, so this resource is directly at the disposal of local authorities. We have prepared a draft law not to distinguish between a child and a child through the severity of the disability and to treat all children with special needs in a uniform manner, regardless of the degree of disability. This is a very correct observation and certainly a very necessary change. But in addition, I must say, of course, that local authorities continue to have a duty to assist a child in need, as stated in the Child Protection Act. The municipality also has an obligation to organise care services autonomously for the people and children in the municipality, according to their need for help. As far as the methodology for assessing the severity of disability has changed, the truth is that the methodology itself has not changed, but perhaps at some point the Social Insurance Board began to look a little more critically at this level of need for help and these decisions may have changed slightly. But the Ministry of Social Affairs, with the Ministry of Education and Research, will certainly have a very big goal, with all children with special needs, regardless of whether they are disabled, whether they are children with special educational needs, to re-examine the service arrangements so that children can receive assistance through one door, so that they do not have to go through different application and assessment processes, so that they can reach education support services in this way, such as rehabilitation services, the services provided by the local government and the provision of assistance is carried out where the child is mainly or mainly present, which is often the child institution, be it a school or a kindergarten. These plans are going to be more thoroughly papered by the beginning of next year, in order to achieve changes to the law. It is important to know that at least two municipalities already apply this practice. I am pleased to say, Mrs Helmen Kütt, that one of them is Viljandi, the other is Saaremaa, where, indeed, in the framework of the current law, assistance for children is better organised and integrated in social and educational services, perhaps less in the health sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U676	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U677	Let's move on to question three. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Ivari Padar and is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. The subject is recreational education and regional policy. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U678	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have not had many successes in regional policy over the ages. The treatment of all this regional policy, for objective and subjective reasons, has gone out of hand. In this respect, the introduction of this education of interest, the regionalisation of the education of interest and the introduction of a very clear differential were like a breath of fresh air in all this area. Especially in this context, too, when there were these debates that rural areas in particular have these problems, that it is difficult to have access to recreational education in connection with disincentives. Nice thing done. Now that there are changes in this area, what was your position when this cut was discussed in the government? What is this possible compensation for local authorities if this 7 million is withdrawn? If the economic forecast improves and the August forecast gives better opportunities, will you stand by not taking out this 7 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U679	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U680	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I am not going to give a programme speech, but in recent years, something else has happened in regional policy and regional development. Separate programmes have been launched in two regions, in Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia. The result of the last four to five years is that the income base of these same local governments has been increased by nearly 200 million, which I think is the most important regional policy measure, because it has a uniform effect across Estonia. Local government revenues represent nearly 2.4 billion this year, with investments of 500 million. In the last two years, we have also provided crisis aid and investment support for the crisis in addition to 176 million, thanks also to you, who have approved these additional budgets here, which the government has brought here. So to say that this 7 million is turning regional policy upside down, I do not agree, of course. If we look further, these instruments and opportunities for regional development will actually be quite a lot from next year, when new measures will be implemented and national programmes will continue. When we are now talking about recreational education, it was an additional measure that was created four years ago to help the state, paying attention to the issue of the development of recreational education and recreational activities in all municipalities, albeit with a formula that encouraged local governments inhabitation. This was certainly a very welcome measure. When putting the state's budget strategy, or the state's financial plan, together for four years, it was certainly on the table as one topic that, at that point, according to these forecasts, we had to look for savings. The Minister of Education and Science came with such a proposal. The whole package, of course, is endorsed by the Cabinet. It would probably not have been my first priority to go looking for savings; rather, it could be done with the state reform activities that I do, analyse and find savings in government governance, where it is reasonable, different duplications, etc. The Ministry of Education and Research and the Minister are negotiating with the Association of Cities and Municipalities. They're looking for a solution to this question, but, dear questioner, I can't afford to be alone here. I, too, will help you find a solution to how you can agree with local governments. There are quite a few options, and I hope that by autumn, when we have specific budget numbers on the table, it will be possible to find this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U681	The question to be specified. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U682	Thank you. If you approach this matter in the context that you are also a minister of public administration, not to speak alone on the subject of recreational education, but on a number of other issues, then it is that the state is giving direction, the state is allocating money and it will be implemented. I understand that for three years, in this case, the way in which it is applied in different municipalities is the way in which it is settled. So the right work is done to ensure that it is reasonably implemented. How do you feel about this practice of such dramatic change of direction in politics? Can we do things more rationally so that it is not the case that new schemes come with every political power, that state power is devalued, and that local people shoulder?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U683	Thank you for your question. I can talk about a fundamental approach. We have searched in recent years and have searched through time for how to increase the decision-making power of local governments, on the contrary, precisely. This means that the municipal income base is formed by a certain percentage of personal income tax, which has just been increased in recent years, and by the Equalisation Fund, which has also been raised, which means free decision-making for municipalities, according to the law they have to carry out these tasks, provide services, and then there is a support fund where the largest amounts are for education. There are basically teachers' salaries and educational organisation costs, but there are also road savings, for example. There are some initiatives that have had a positive effect, such as this initiative on education of interest, that the state supports. The main responsibility, of course, lies with the municipality. I am in favour of what I have been trying to talk about in the office, and I hope that, in the process of drawing up the state budget, too, this will be thought and discussed, and I will also talk through with the union of cities and municipalities, that we are still looking for those places where this money with labels, we can also say that political money, the view of the municipalities, is not certain. It is better to agree that the money with the labels should go to the income base, the tax rate and the equalization fund respectively, and then it is a free decision of the municipalities. These are the places we continue to look for, and I have proposed that all ministries submit these proposals by 1 October. That doesn't mean they're trying to hand over an obligation with less money. There is no mention of the obligation in the case of recreational education; many things are done in cooperation between the state and the municipality. I consider the education of interest to be very important. On the one hand, of course, it is a painful question when it is said that we are taking money from you here, but it has also triggered a certain debate, which I very much look forward to, in fact, how to proceed with this issue, what is the need that municipalities see, whether it is covered or not, what we get for it. So I very much hope that the Union of Cities and Municipalities, together with the Ministry of Education and Research, will come with this proposal, which will go on with this particular money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U684	Now, one more question. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U685	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. In order to understand, I ask you whether all local authorities have this capacity to contribute to an education of interest. If not, what is your opinion of how many Estonian municipalities have this capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U686	Thanks for asking. I need to talk a little bit about personal experience. I was an assistant mayor in Võhma and the mayor when the meat tent went bankrupt for the second time in a row. We had all the hobbies free, we had our own music school. I think that these are also priorities in the municipalities, of course, where they will contribute. The Minister of Social Protection, as well as previous social ministers, has said that municipalities could contribute more to the social sector and that they may not be able to ensure this service in a stable manner throughout Estonia. I dare say that this will improve, even in those areas that have been out of interest or have not had priorities. We have one such platform that you can all explore: my own government.fin.ee. That's where we analyze every year. One of the reasons was the administrative reform, we looked at what then began to change, how the level of services changed or the competences of municipalities changed. There's a pretty thorough analysis of the score of one hundred percent, no one can swear that it's accurate, it's accurate, and you can compare all the local governments with each other. One of the things that we have seen lately is that it is the social sector that is delighting that this issue has been getting better and better, but I believe that there has also been an improvement in recreational education. So the municipalities are making more and more contributions. Rather, the question is how it is with this cooperation, what the Ministry has to do, whether we have to give extra money. Instead, we must contribute on the substance side. This debate is now underway. I know that the working group will meet again on 13 July. During the framework negotiations, different areas will be negotiated. The Ministry of Education and Research will discuss this thoroughly in this working group, and I hope that there will also be concrete proposals by autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U687	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U688	Let's move on to question four. This is presented by Andres Metsoja, member of the Riigikogu, and Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. The subject is administrative reform. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U689	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good members of the cabinet! Honourable Jack! I offer a platform to talk about administrative reform. Indeed, it has been one of the country's long-term goals, if you could say so, to make the local government stronger and thus make democracy stronger in Estonia and, in other words, to improve local services. Indeed, 65 million were the ambition that the country's common purse contributed to administrative reform. Of this, 50 million went to implement the accession treaties. In fact, new elections are about to come to an end for this four-year period in terms of contracts. The law of two chairs has now also created a situation where very often members of the Riigikogu are picked up by a button and asked: "But how has Estonia been? " Unfortunately, it has been difficult to provide these super-Estonian answers, because I have not seen any analysis which, even at the time of the local elections, would give an overview of what has actually happened, whether the service has improved, whether the municipalities have become stronger and whether the ambition of the Estonian state to move towards a stronger self-government has stopped. At the time, the local government with 11000 inhabitants was also discussed when talking about characteristics or metrics. Is any analysis coming up in terms of local elections, so that the debates of local authorities can, in a sense, also assess this period? Are further steps planned? I understand there is no information on this in the coalition agreement, but the state reform has not stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U690	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U691	Thank you for your question. Now if I answer all your questions, I don't know where I'm going. But let's try this: if we all talk from the beginning and honestly like Agu Sihvka, then I personally had to complete this reform as Minister of Public Administration. I was critical of some aspects before that. But it was a rational choice. If I had started making big changes on the move, we would probably have caused even more confusion. We've done some tests. Our own house did competence analysis, it is a very simple comparison of course how certain areas are covered with specialists. It was that if small municipalities had 0.2 and 0.3 [places] or one person had several-several-several fields of expertise, the majority of the main competences of the new municipalities are covered, say, by a specialist, so that there are at least 1.0. I'm sure that's what we found out. There is, of course, much more in larger municipalities. As far as substantive analysis is concerned, I still recommend my own administration.ee, it's pretty good. I think we're gonna have to advertise it more. In fact, this comparison with the previous years and how these services have evolved will emerge. It's not just that we're judging from some records, there's polls in it. The same local person is asked how this or another service has developed and how it is available. We haven't planned any other major analyses. I think we are constantly improving my own government.ee environment as well, see if there are any other areas that we should be able to find there. My overall assessment is this, and that is what I have said, that the municipalities have certainly become more capable. Should this 11,000 ambition have been more monitored? I don't know. That's how he was, and you got some of it, didn't you, very few. In the previous government, we discussed the withdrawal of accession grants. I think you remember that. Such a proposal is currently being submitted to this government's office as well. I'd like to get that feeling. My main proposal is certainly that voluntary mergers should continue to be supported, because such sensible plans may be born in cooperation somewhere in Estonia, and give a little bit more of a positive carrot. Here's a choice that's a little complicated. In the previous government, we discussed this too. When we look at the size of the county, we see a couple of counties where it's probably impossible, right? How can these exceptions be made or what should be taken into account in support? But I am generally in favour of this accession grant coming back. I think the year 2025 is real because they didn't plan for these elections, everyone was tired of the previous process, I think. But with this cooperation, which we have supported at the county level, I think these plans might come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U692	Now, the question to be specified. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U693	Thank you. It's the final part of your answer that I'd like to move on. County cooperation, its meaning and importance are, in fact, taking an increasingly clearer shape. How do you see the outcome of this administrative reform? Looking at the side of the state reform, it was the abolition of the county government, and today there is, in a sense, a representative of the state on the ground. The cooperation of the local government associations has become blurred in some places, as if the regional development organisation, which must certainly have a flagship, also the county municipality centre as a locomotive, is in place. In fact, it is very right that municipalities themselves must agree in the county on the following priority projects for which money is sought jointly. This requires agreement between municipalities, in particular, because it shows a priority table. But in what situation are we in this county cooperation? Indeed, in Saaremaa we have one municipality. Yeah, well, two.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U694	Three.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U695	Ruhnu also, indeed. I'm still not used to this restructuring nature. These exceptions created their own structure, which maybe it's a little complicated. But what about this cooperation and is there going to be some clear changes in the country's view?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U696	Thank you. That's an interesting question again. My view is that the choice after administrative reform was what will be done now. Some have already talked about regions, I don't know, like public authorities, that maybe we could start working together somewhere in the region. However, since regional cooperation still has very long roots and traditions, it was a conscious choice that we decided to support cooperation within the county. If anyone wants to do trans-regional cooperation projects on certain topics, no one will prohibit it, it is even possible to use the relevant organisations, whatever it is, whether it is on environmental waste or on other issues that may be crossing borders. We had a thorough discussion in the previous committee of experts on the Local Government Organisation Act on the matter of the alliances that are these MAROs. The Reform Act left the free choice that the municipalities themselves decide in what form of cooperation they do, that is the Union, that is MARO, it is a combination of both. If you asked, I'd say my personal choice would be to have an alliance in every county. Reasonable choices were made probably in order to two organizations, so why. But it seems to me that the alliance has a clear place. Many wonder how to restore it or how to do so. Issues that arise (I am familiar with the development of the city of Pärnu, I have received a memo from the official), the situation is that I do not know how to proceed. I'm sure I'll support it. On the one hand, it is good to have free choices, but on the other hand, there may be unevaluated risks that will happen if this does not happen. We'll probably have to come back to that. There wasn't anything very smart on the COKS Audit Committee either. They said yes, it's free hands, let it be free hands. But if it doesn't work anymore, what do you do? Case is right now, by law, we can raise our hands and okay, just sit for a year and a half. But I don't think that makes any sense. I very much hope, of course, that the municipalities can agree on their own. But the county organization is very important. In this sense, too, that we handed over a development strategy to it, that the municipalities must argue it out, that the strategy is not just an empty document. If there are funding programmes, activities, then, I have promised, there will be a big role. You decide what you have as a priority, you agree among yourselves on this area, this measure, the second measure, regional measures. It goes completely there and the state intervenes as little as possible in the evaluation of these projects or some content. Compliance will be assessed, but the content will be on you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U697	No further questions. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U698	Let us move on to question five. It has been submitted by the member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, and is answered by the Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo. The subject is employability and internship. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U699	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Recently, we were all able to read an article in the newspaper entitled "The State confessed to 30 years of immobility!" about a man with spinal cord injury who had been left in a wheelchair as a result of an accident in 1992. The man had a deep disability until March this year. In March, however, he received a new decision from the Social Insurance Board, according to which he was no longer disabled. Fortunately, after contesting the decision, he was found to have at least severe disability with a new decision. The website of the Social Insurance Institution states that when determining the degree of disability, account shall be taken of the limitations of the person's daily activities and participation in society, the basis for determining the degree of disability is the abnormal physical functions confirmed by doctors who perform examinations and diagnoses, which makes it difficult, limited or impeded to cope with normal circumstances. Instead, you have commented on this case by saying that a person's expectation and professional assessment from outside can differ. Please explain what professionalism was about in this case. In this case, was it really a man's baseless expectation that simply did not match professional judgment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U700	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U701	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, of course, that this is not a question of real work ability and practice, but of identifying the degree of disability. Indeed, what concerns the determination of the degree of disability is the fact that the person's health status and the need for his or her side aid are linked. When assessing this secondary aid requirement, the degree of disability shall also be defined or identified. I am not in the habit of commenting on individual cases or going into detail in a particular case, but I can always, in general, maintain that the degree of disability in a seemingly similar situation may vary and may vary only because of what is the person's actual ability to cope in his or her normal environment and the need for his or her assistance. When determining the degree of disability, we know that it is necessary to assess a person's livelihood and the need for secondary assistance in his/her everyday environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U702	Now, the question to be specified. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U703	Thank you. I will continue on the same subject. This case was an example of what was going on in the media, which is why it became public, but there are a number of such professional mistakes, most of them unfortunately remain hidden. Many probably remember a case when a person without one leg was found to have recovered and no disability was assigned because professionals found that the person had adapted to his or her disability and no further assistance was needed. So he's okay. You have said that any administrative decision can be appealed and reviewed and that if, indeed, the decision has not been made in sufficient detail, it will be reviewed. On this basis, I conclude that you, as Minister, consider such errors to be normal and that this is a normal practice. If you don't like it, go to court! But I think it's not and can't be normal. It is also not appropriate for you, as Minister for Social Protection, to have such an indifferent and reckless attitude. What are you going to do to avoid such a professional failure in the future and to make the system work, because the level of disability depends on the availability of social benefits and services?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U704	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U705	In this sense, I will certainly stick to my words that administrative decisions must be made thoroughly and prudently, and the part of the recital is also extremely important there. If the administrative decision does not satisfy the person on whom the decision has been taken, then indeed, we have the rule of law and the person has the right to challenge the administrative decision. Depends, of course, on the decision, it is not always necessary to go to court, and likewise there is an initial right of appeal at the Social Insurance Board. If people fail, of course, they have the right to proceed to the administrative court. Once again, regardless of a person's medical condition, the need for help and the need for secondary assistance are assessed in his or her normal living and living environment. Indeed, there may be situations in which a person's coping is compensated by an aid or other solution, which does not necessarily mean finding a disability of the same severity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U706	Okay, no more questions. There was one point in detail, and I do not see any further questions. So if no one else wants, please, Kert Kingo, you also have an additional question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U707	I'm taking the chance that no one else wanted to ask. You here, in answering my questions, constantly referred to the assessment of the current situation and how a disabled person has adapted to life so far. But on the basis of these two cases, which I specifically pointed out here, it may well be said that if a person is in a wheelchair for years, everyone understands that a life that is 100% equivalent to a perfectly healthy person is not possible for him to live. The same applies to a person who, for example, has lost one leg or limb. Just as he may adapt to his disability and cope better over the years, we cannot put him on a stick with a healthy person, for he will certainly find many things unattainable and impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U708	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U709	Thank you for the clarification or comment. It is true that people are different because of their health status and that people adapt very differently. You can't argue with that. But I have quite a number of very good acquaintances who are very well adapted to either a wheelchair or two leg prosthetics, are fully employed and live in this sense fully. The question is how one person or another has adapted to his or her disability or condition. Very different things are appreciated. If a person of working age is involved, his or her ability to work is appreciated. There may be a question of partial work capacity, there may also be a question of disability in certain cases. In older people, in retirement age, the degree of disability is again assessed, as is the case in those under 16 years of age. It might be different, and it's reasonable and normal that it's different. However, I would like to stress that it is important that a person, by accepting and adapting to his or her state of health, is able to live up to his or her potential to contribute to our society. Here, in the context of the labour capacity reform, I am pleased to say that the proportion of people with partial or lack of working capacity on the labour market at the end of 2019 was 52.4%, which had increased significantly compared to 2014, when they were 45.7%. This means that people with disabilities or partial working capacity have been noticed in our society, have been supported and can participate in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U710	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U711	Let's move on to question six. It has been submitted by Evgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is the construction of an oil plant. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U712	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have a question about the new oil plant to be built by Eesti Energia. The Minister of Finance has very thoroughly answered my questions concerning the economic perspectives of this plant. The fact that this is an environmentally insane decision when the state invests in a factory in 2021, which will increase Estonia's total mission by 5%, is obvious. In fact, this is also contrary to the Paris climate agreement, which requires national financial flows to be taken away from fossil fuels and led towards low-carbon energy production. The economic viability of this plant has now also been questioned. As you know very well, we have historically high quota prices. In July, the European Commission will come up with a package proposing to strengthen the existing environmental conditions. As a result, Eesti Energia has itself admitted that it has become a long way sour. Moreover, in the context of legal protection, the Court has suspended the establishment of this plant. It seems that it is time to make this decision, so as not to jeopardise our fair transition financing, etc. There are now two specific and short questions. The first question concerns the past. You have said in the past, like the Minister of Finance, that you could not stop the design or construction of this plant because all the costs had been taken up. It has now become apparent that, in fact, as of January, only a few million costs had been raised. What led to such misleading information in your past? The second question is: will you give the task to Eesti Energia and prohibit it from spending 37 million euros on this project at this stage on 1 July?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U713	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U714	Thank you. I'll start with the first question, history. As of January 2021, the cost of the oil plant project was around 3.6 million, but before January 2021 all major procurements, 80% of the cost of the investment, had already been announced. Construction contracts were not signed, but negotiations were held. As of May 2021, 80% of the contracts needed to complete the oil plant project had been awarded. It's a historical situation why these things couldn't have been reversed. Indeed, as of 1 July, 37 million payments would have to be made. The Minister of Finance, as the general meeting of Eesti Energia, has written to Eesti Energia that no further steps should actually be taken. We have agreed in the coalition agreement that taxpayers' money must not be added to the financing of a new oil plant. The Minister of Finance has also constantly reminded Eesti Energia that this agreement cannot be done. What does Eesti Energia say? Eesti Energia claims that this oil plant is competitive and can also be done without taxpayers' money. Therefore, it does not need more taxpayers' money for this, but considers that this project can still go ahead and is more environmentally friendly than previous oil plants. Personally, I'm not convinced of that, for the reasons you even pointed out. In addition, for the reason that the private sector, which operates exactly in the same sector, has not considered it reasonable, given world climate policy and European climate policy, to make additional investments in such oil plants, as it simply costs too much. Thus, taxpayers' money cannot go further to that oil plant.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U715	Now, the question to be specified. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U716	Thank you. Well, that is what shows, the same answer that you also read, that, in fact, when the new government took office, the costs that had been incurred were very limited and that this project could have been stopped at the time. But it seems to me that Eesti Energia did not provide adequate information to the owner's representative either. I therefore asked because, indeed, a number of coalition parties have spread this false information in the past. Speaking of the taxpayer's money, the 125 million euros of taxpayers' money that the state has given to Eesti Energia has been paid and actually expects it to be spent on the same project. This moment of decision, so that no additional cents go into fossil fuels, to develop them, is now. By 1 July, EUR 37 million of taxpayers' money will go to the construction of an oil shale oil plant in a situation where the court has suspended it, in a situation where all the risks that I have talked about and in which we agree with you and are upstairs. In fact, it is possible, appropriate and frankly possible to stop this investment, to prohibit Eesti Energia from making this investment and to pack up this project, to take back this 125 million euros as owner. Perhaps in addition to the orchestra and the activities of interest, there are many other places where you can save something to do what people really need and want to do. But that's really the decision now. I have understood from Eesti Energia that they have no problem pressing a pedal for taxpayers' money and spending them, despite all the risks involved. Does your government actually express environmental friendliness with real decisions or only with nice words?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U717	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U718	Thank you. You have drawn up national budgets yourself, and you know very well that the money that goes into a financing transaction cannot be used for, for example, fixed costs; it cannot be raised out of there in this way. But it is, of course, a financial concern, not a substantive one. As far as this overall picture is concerned, what you said at the beginning, the Fair Transfer Fund is intended to make the necessary investments so that, as the name suggests, we can switch to cleaner energy, as well as cleaner production cycles, cleaner industry, so that it leads to a green turn. Our government has decided to channel all this money to Ida-Virumaa, where the problem is greatest. I truly believe that in years' time Ida-Virumaa will become the most modern and clean-living region in industry. Efforts must be made for this. The Minister of Finance, as the representative of the owner of Eesti Energia, the general meeting of AS Eesti Energia, has given clear orders to both the Management Board of Eesti Energia and the Board of Eesti Energia in order not to take such steps, not to go forward with this oil factory in such a way that the money from the fair transfer fund is not in any way called into question. I think that is what should be borne in mind, that is the will of the owner, which is expressed by giving instructions to the board and board of Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U719	Now, one more question. Merry Aart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U720	Thank you. This is a very exciting theme, CO2 is such a very exciting-exciting term and exciting theme. If CO2 is more, then greenness is lusher, and if CO2 is less, then plants are more stunty. But I would not like to debate here, but rather to suggest that perhaps we should discuss this issue once in this large Chamber a little more widely and with the participation of the various parties. But my question. Has there actually been a specific analysis of this oil plant? What is the support that can be provided? If the plant were to work, what would be the economic result of the plant per year or at some point in time, to what extent does it affect the state budget and regional development? If it's negative, and I've heard and read that it could be negative, how do you compensate for these negative effects?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U721	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U722	Thank you for that question. First, economics. Looking at the earlier projects of Eesti Energia, I do not think they are quite comparable to private sector projects. There is always an opportunity to ask for support from the state budget, which private sector companies do not actually have. That is why I find it difficult to assess this economic return purely, as there is always a part of the country. Looking at previous practice, I would say that these projects have not always been as economically viable as Eesti Energia has shown them. That, I'm afraid, also applies to this oil factory. Now the question of CO2 and these quotas. My colleague, Mr Ossinovski, has already pointed out that in mid-July the European Commission will come up with new proposals on climate policy on how to actually move towards climate neutrality, what are the objectives that are set for countries, what the European Union is generally doing and how they are moving towards them. So I really don't have an answer to that question right now. According to the proposal, energy should be excluded and more focused on other sectors, such as transport, including agriculture, which also has emissions. But this use of quotas, how many of them could go to Eesti Energia, how many of them could be used, and whether it would go together with climate policy at all, I am currently indebted to the answer, because we do not have this proposal in front of us right now. But your comment was on the negative effects. I absolutely agree that this is likely to have negative effects, we are talking not only about the economic side, but we are actually talking about the effects on the environment. All these effects should be assessed in the collection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U723	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U724	Let us move on to the seventh question put by Riigikogu member Heiki Hepner. This is answered by a member of the government, Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. The subject is regional policy. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U725	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear Minister, The previous government moved in the right direction in regional policy, but in fact there is still a long way to go to reach a good level. The new RES has put this development on hold, could even say it's turned back on the old tracks. Regional policy is cross-cutting and that is why this issue is also addressed to you, precisely in the light of the RES cuts. We have talked a lot about cutting access to recreational education in this Chamber. Indeed, if 7 million are still taken away, it is understandable that this availability will certainly be reduced. I would, however, open it up a little more, even with the example of Raplamaa. In the municipalities of Raplamaa, about 1.6 million euros will be lost in four years. It is not possible to cover it, as the City Government of Tallinn said, that there is no problem, we will find this money. In any case, access to vocational education needs to be reduced. Just as a reminder that municipalities add money to teachers' salaries, money from the state does not actually cover the whole area. I'm not talking about kindergartens and hobbies where teachers' salaries have to rise. But in addition, road investments are because, as a result of the fact that education is not the only regional measure, EUR 110 million will be taken out in four years. The Saviors' trade union has said that the proposed money cannot be saved from operating costs in a way that does not reduce their ability to save. Here's my questions for you. What should local governments cut at the expense of? Do we really have reason to fear that, in addition to spending on recreational education and road funding, our ability to save will be reduced and regional policy will also be hit there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U726	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U727	Thank you for your question. I'm sure it's topical. I told you those numbers before. Despite the times of crisis, municipal revenues are increasing. That's good news. I recall some previous crisis when the municipal revenue base was cut. In the crisis years, the revenue of local governments is now increasing. We have also provided additional funding for this, 176 million emergency crisis aid, investment support in two years. With an increasing revenue base and revenue, different activities are possible: improving social services, and giving more education of interest. After all, it is still up to the local government. As I said, this support for recreational education was brought to life four years ago in order to perhaps harmonise this level across Estonia, improve quality, accessibility etc. It's totally okay. But maybe now is the time to review the role of the state, the role of local government, and go to the content. That's what I talked about for a long time. I really look forward to these substantive proposals coming from negotiations with the Union of Cities and Municipalities. Then it's September, and we'll decide how it's done. I do not rule out that one option is to agree that it is in the revenue base and that it no longer has to play, it grows every year because, frankly, it has not grown in four years. The fund's money is always such that it comes and stays at the same level and does not grow, but the revenue base grows every year. It's always been my preference. You say "cutbacks." I don't like that word. Everyone's dying to talk about cuts. It's like someone's cutting their head off. As I said here, savings can be sought. In the situation where we were before the country's budget strategy, in the spring, looking at these forecasts, no one makes it a secret that there was a deficit. Now the question is how we come out of this deficit, how quickly we are moving towards balance and what we are going to do about it. In fact, there was a consensus that we were looking for these austerity points. This financial plan was announced, and now all ministries are going through it. If you're asking me if there's going to be less rescuers and cops, I don't know the answer to that. The Home Office is reviewing its plans. The preferred option is to find savings in the [loss] of duplication, consolidation of support functions, consolidation of institutions and agencies, which we spent intensively with the previous government in four ministries. It's a normal place to look for savings. Certainly would not want this austerity plan to reach a reduction in the number of policemen or rescuers in some regions. I certainly don't support that. But the exact plan will be clear by September, and then we'll make those decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U728	Now, the question to be specified. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U729	Thank you. In fact, your examples relate to the positive steps taken by the previous government. Like I said, we went in the right direction with the previous government. In this respect, you must also be commended. However, I would point out that, indeed, 40 local government leaders also sent a letter to the government about reducing the money for recreational education. That is a clear concern. But my question comes from a member of your group. Oudekki Loone said yesterday that the Centre Party certainly does not agree with such a cut-off solution. Although I do not like this word to be honest, I fully agree with it, and I would also like it if this money were not to move to a support fund but was clearly part of the revenue base, it would be in the fine-tuning fund or simply as a percentage of income tax. This is the way. But could Oudekki Loone read out of the speech in this Chamber yesterday that if we start discussing the state budget here in the autumn and if these cuts are inside, then the Centre Party will kick its back straight and say that there are two options: are we going to go to the government or is this not happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U730	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U731	Thank you for your question. As I said, the country's budgetary strategy is an overall monetary plan for four years, and it is done according to the forecast that exists at the time. It was in the spring. First, we wait for the autumn forecast. The fact that ministries and agencies are looking for austerity is not, in my opinion, the devil. I've always said it depends on where they're going to look for this savings. That's what ministries are doing right now. I, too, have expressed an opinion on some cuts or savings. I still don't want to say "fly." It's gonna change when it's done, I don't know, on some important stuff like that. If it's savings, it's a thoughtful plan. I can assure you that all ministries have certain plans either way. After all, they have been moving forward with the idea of this state reform, whether it is consolidation, whether there are still any supporting functions to review, structural review, whatever, middle-level leaders, many or so. It's an internship, it's a life, and you can definitely look for it there. When we see where the ministries with these plans are going at one point, we can say what is reasonable or what is not reasonable. It has been demanded that no cuts, no savings, it is also unreasonable. If no savings are made anywhere, it doesn't make sense. The Minister of State for Reform also speaks in me. These austerity points can be sought, they need to be done in substance, they need to be analysed and these plans definitely need to be taken forward. Then the plans of the ministries that they come up with must be assessed, also politically, at the level of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U732	Now, one more question. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U733	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Jaak, you're a minister of state administration, and you're, you know, how to say, you've been running this line for a while. In many ways, we've been talking to you about these things, and we've been arguing about them. As a result of the administrative reform, we have received the eradication of counties and the large-scale consolidation of municipalities. How do you feel about the financial savings, as powerful as we were talking about in the beginning, and what did I fight against if you remember? That's another thing. This is where the same thing comes out, just as you answered the questioner right now, either here or there, about a certain police or rescue capacity. The saviors say they're gonna lock up Värska, Hoistama and Moose command points. That means a serious problem. As Minister of State Administration, it is your duty to ensure that the capacity is not lost, that more money is put there if necessary. So it's not that rosy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U734	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U735	Thank you for your question. It is topical every day, and the Minister of Public Administration is really monitoring it. If we recall the reform of the administrative reform and of the rural governments, there must have been some financial savings. It was perhaps not as big as when we were talking about the country's reform of rural governments, as far as I know, it was a million a year somewhere, in this order of magnitude, but rather it was a question of substance. A hat off to you, too, for your hard work as a country manager. But what really mattered was that the public authorities and authorities had long removed this decision-making power from that county government. It had gone somewhere to the level of the regions or somewhere further or to Tallinn. The county government did not have the function that it had in the early 1990s when it had a very strong function. At the moment, these functions are performed by other institutions, some of which we handed over to the municipalities, it is such a planning of regional development, development planning. I think it is reasonable that this is done on the territory of the municipalities, that is what the municipalities themselves must agree on. I think that the state should not intervene so much, the state can help with certain support measures, and we have done so. We have increased the funding for the county development strategy, which the municipality can use for small investments in agreement, to make various development projects and plans. I think, in fact, this situation will certainly improve overall. What did we do as a counterweight? We have removed a number of institutions from [Tallinn] and the principle of universal recruitment has been introduced, which is becoming more and more operational, which means that institutions and agencies in Tallinn recruit people on the basis of the "Tallinn" principle. Of course, there are more popular places. In Pärnu, the Social Insurance Board has developed very well, one part of EAS has gone to Pärnu. It can be that not all counties are attractive. But in the fall, I want to take public teleworking to the office as well. You can't do long-distance work by telling a person to go home and do a job, and there are certain conditions and things that need to be taken into account. For example, secure data communication, which we solve in public buildings, where these universal jobs also come from. That's where we're trying to gather these facilities. But I think that message has arrived. We also stated in the cabinet decisions of the previous government that if anyone is going to restructure their institutions, they will present this plan to the Minister of State Administration. There are still places where the machines do the work and work for a person is reduced, but we are looking for a job for that person in the state apparatus so he doesn't leave there. This is what we have done before, and we will continue to try to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U736	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U737	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Mart Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, a member of the government, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is allies. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U738	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We have recently had a series of alarming reports in the press that there have been conflicts with representatives of the Allied military contingent, or allied soldiers. Conflicts have been intriguing at times, like Tapa fighting over girls and making noise on the train. But I also know the people of Kill a little bit, even members of the party. They say they're the top of the iceberg. In fact, they have far more incidents, striking noises, and bullies than it has come to the press. I would say that this is very worrying, because such incidents will undoubtedly tarnish the image of our allied states and allied soldiers and make many feel that we cannot count on them very much, and what is the benefit of them at all. That's what my question is about. Have these issues been discussed in government, government office, bilateral consultations with the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence? Have any specific decisions been made so that our allies are not harmed by such foolish incidents?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U739	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U740	Thank you. Soldiers of the Allied States are obliged to comply with Estonian law, that is everywhere, including compliance with the rules of public order. I also let myself take out how many such incidents there are, whether it's really massive, as you say, or not. It turns out that in the last four years, three reports of conflicts involving Allied soldiers have reached the police in Tapa. So you can't say there's too many of them. On average, one report of Allied soldiers per year. In Estonia, law enforcement authorities are involved in defending the order, who can initiate proceedings if necessary, if there is indeed something inappropriate done. When I read these cases, it seemed to me that it had so much to do with not allied soldiers, but with young men and the fact that young men were perhaps more rash in many ways, you could say. You yourself have boasted here on the floor of the Riigikogu about how you were also a hard hit man as a young man. Perhaps you can now bring the parallel that young men have a high level of testosterone, and it also sets some behavioral rules or creates behavioural patterns. But, as I said, at least as far as I know, there aren't a lot of these messages. The Allies have assured us that they are looking into these facts. In any case, they take the behaviour of soldiers very seriously, because, as you said, it is also a question of the reputation of these soldiers, how these soldiers are accepted in the country of residence. If the impression is that they are more problematic, it will certainly affect the way the Allied State is viewed in Estonia at all. So, in the case of complaints, the Allied States are actively working with us to find solutions to these situations and, if necessary, to order people who have behaved improperly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U741	Now, the question to be specified. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U742	Thank you. You're gonna love me telling you my childhood memories. I can still talk. There's another nationalist who's been talking about how nationalism has been beaten into him. Well, that's probably the case with my generation and a little younger. At the time, these interethnic conflicts were everyday, completely daily. Did the nationalist just get kicked in? But in this sense, I think that Riho Breivel, sitting in front of me, who is about to ask a question, can also confirm that he must have had some strength to touch here and there at times. It was perfectly normal. It was possible that this was also a general different view of the method of billing after the war than it is today. I can't tell you, life is constantly changing. But I'll come back to the subject. I understood and thank you for expressing the government's view that the issue is being taken very seriously at government level. I can assure you that these are not rumors. There are more incidents than those that have reached the police record. I know this because one of our party members lives permanently in Tapa, is a former military man and holds a bar where Allied soldiers, local and Estonian soldiers are very frequent guests. There's alcohol, and I can't tell you what it's gonna do from time to time, so we have to call them in, so they don't always call the police. So it's like a permanent problem over there. But the other part of my question you did not answer was: have there already been any decisions on what should be and could be the cooperation between our respective institutions and the Allied Commands to prevent these incidents?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U743	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U744	Thank you. In itself, the resolution of such irregularities is governed by an agreement between the States Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of armed forces, or NATO SOFA, Status of Forces Agreement. If action violates only the laws of the host country, the host state's law enforcement bodies, as well as the laws of the host state, will deal with it by the authorities of the host state. In a word, these things can't be dealt with unless there are complaints. You can't deal with them from an empty point of view. I think it is important, especially given that we will also have a NATO summit on Monday, so that NATO works and that we have faith in NATO forces, and we ourselves would be equal allies there. NATO is still based on collective protection and deterrence. Collective protection is very much involved in how different entities carry out and how the chain of command does so as to make everything work in time. I think it is very important that NATO goes back to its roots and also wants to strengthen the contribution of NATO Member States to this collective defence. These discussions will certainly be interesting. I went to Tapa a few weeks ago. During all this time, 9,000 Allied troops have been through Tapa. Indeed, at least those incidents that have been registered are not very numerous for this large number. Rather, I think it is very positive that the allies are here. After all, we are talking to the representatives of the various allied states about bringing their troops here in rotation. The feedback was very positive that our defence forces are on a very high level, the exercises are on a very high level, and they actually want to come here for both exercises and service. In my opinion, this is in any case positive in our security perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U745	Now, one more question. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U746	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! It's true, men have testosterone, there's nothing to do here, whether they're young or old. I myself, as a military officer, have been trained in several countries, though with other duties. Luckily, somewhere I've been, I've never had such an experience that I should have used force against someone or used it against me. So in this respect, it should be said that we have raised our own army quite well. Also, when I was the head of the border guard area or the head of the border guard staff, the border guard did not have very many conflicts with the local people, even though we had conscripts, especially in Narva, where they were provoked. So these things need drivers to keep, of course, a very strong fist. But I also have a question. We've been on missions ourselves for years. Are there any such incidents with our soldiers that have reached your ears here that our soldiers on a mission would have behaved rudely with the locals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U747	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U748	Thank you. I don't have that kind of information. In fact, as you said yourself, there have been no major problems in Tapa either. But I just wanted to say one thing about the beginning of your story. When I went to Tapa, I also met with the leader of the British and French forces on the ground. The leader of the British troops showed a letter he had received from a military man who was here. It was written that he saw a soldier who was polite, followed all the rules, was very hard-working, etc., was as a soldier should be, and then he imagined that this soldier had probably served here for a long time, because he was very good at everything. But when it turned out that this soldier had only been here two months, he was very surprised. The conclusion was what this leader of the British troops said, that if he is asked about Estonia, about the Estonian Defence Forces, he will respond in such a way that it is an army, as one army must be. This is, in my opinion, a very high degree of recognition. In fact, the part of this is that our soldiers behave respectfully, also conscripts, as they say, boys men in the army are really understanding not only this military side, but also the values that the Defence Forces, the defence of the Estonian state, bear in themselves. I think it's very positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U749	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U750	Let us move on to question nine. The member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt, will ask for this, according to the Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo. The subject is about the joys and concerns of the social sector. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U751	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the Committee on Social Affairs, you have presented for a very long time what you are planning to do with long-term care, and what changes will soon be in the form of laws also in the Social Affairs Committee, probably already in the autumn. Whether we use the word'savings' or 'cutting', but also in the committee session, you said that 4.4 million are needed in the social sphere or in the Ministry of Social Affairs, it remained unclear whether it concerns only your area of activity or also the Minister of Health and Labour, so that you can respond together. Yesterday Kalle Laanet said that they have done their homework properly and quickly, and hence the public pressure. When the Commission was asked what were the cuts, the plan to do in your administration in the Ministry of Social Affairs, Deputy Chancellor Rait Kuuse said that it was still being discussed, they had not yet been agreed. But if I'm not mistaken, it was said that by June 4th, there might be some kind of summary. In fact, underfunding in the sector has been a chronic and major problem, especially with regard to long-term care. But we also know that our contribution to health is small. True, a few governments returned to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas during the health care period, then Jevgeni Ossinovski was Minister of Health and Labour. But what are the spots? I know you're not going after a chaplain or a breather. That's what Ove Sander said. But what have you planned to cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U752	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U753	Thank you, Mrs. Helmen Hunter! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! 4.4 million is for the entire area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We do not have a very clear agreement, because these discussions are also actively going to the Minister of Finance today; they were also yesterday, how this final distribution is. But one thing I can be sure of is that we can soften savings in the social sector, where there is always a shortage of money, we all know that. The need for people's help, as well as the expectation of support and the quality of support, is only growing, and the first questions this morning also referred to this. It is, in fact, the resources of the Social Fund that will help us to continue to provide quality services to people, not to bring them together at the expense of people. So I am pleased to say that, as early as this autumn, REACT funds have been planned for general care homes for EUR 4 million, with a call for proposals, general care centres can come to apply to improve continuity in general care homes. Especially now, in the light of the corona- and health crisis, we know what the bottlenecks are. We have about 200 general care institutions, and the plan is to support about 100 institutions. Since 2021, we have EUR 136,5 million from the European Social Fund to support older people's self-sufficiency, which gives us the capacity to support local authorities in developing service houses for older people, which allow for dignified ageing and a little support for assisted living. 68800000 is planned for the wider development of the long-term care system. There we also want to develop community services of local government and specifically pay attention to the South-East Estonia programme. However, the activities of the state, as previously said in the Committee on Social Affairs, are still aimed at ensuring that general care is component-based and that there is support for informal care.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U754	Now, the question to be specified. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U755	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I also think it is very important that general care homes have an opportunity to improve ventilation conditions and everything else, because we know that the kroon virus created it and the risk of infection was very high, both among the workers and among the wards. It's all very positive. Exactly as well as service houses, excellent, the municipality puts its share. Obviously, it is not yet clear what the percentage of the municipality is. But the longer a person can live at home with good services, the better for everyone, especially the person who is meant to be helped. At the same time, we know that the period of the European Union's resources, as a result of the reform of the capacity to work, went to the services of getting people with special needs to work, adapting their jobs, all the more, the adjustment of their homes is coming to an end, and the state has to take on certain responsibilities. Or are these resources expected to be there in the new period? That's one half of the question. Secondly, these cuts, still the 4.4 million at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I wish they wouldn't touch directly those who are the weakest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U756	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U757	Thank you for your question. As regards the end of the previous period of European structural support and the transition, in the case of residues, quite a number of activities have been extended until the end of next year, for some issues until the end of 2023. We will be very careful to ensure that the activities that have been initiated are sustainable, either with the support of a soft transition, the use of resources from the old period or, in fact, in the new period. All the things in the new period are in the details of planning, so these opportunities are still open to us. Of course, we can't make savings at the expense of the weakest. Certainly, part of the savings in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs is clearly 4.2%, which was taken into account for all ministries for the first two years and which will rise in the next two years of the budgetary strategy of the country. We are still taking a deep look at the activities of the official body that are being carried out in our offices. It is certainly about saving and optimising these institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U758	Now, one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U759	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, the draft submitted by the Estonian Conservative People's Party was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the subject of which was the criminalisation of human attempts without the consent of the person. Antonina Järviste, an expert epidemiologist, took part. Among other things, I asked Antonina why the Ministry of Social Affairs is now being called upon and encouraged to vaccinate pregnant women and infants. His answer was very simple: "In the study of pregnancy against COVID-19, there is probably only one objective: to "prove" the need to vaccinate a baby. This position is very wrong in relation to pregnant women and infants. I was taught to hold a pregnant woman and administer her medication only at the very least, for example, when a woman is in a life - threatening situation. Vaccination was not an option because all systems of the pregnant organism are being rebuilt by the services to protect the foetus and woman. All kinds of external influences give rise to fierce resistance. Pregnant women must be protected from infectious diseases, but vaccination is always an extreme measure unless there is a choice. Such situations are extremely rare. The newborn is protected by the mother's milk. Specific, just as antibodies to this disease may be in breast milk, but they are not the first violins. Mother's colostrum plus her microbioma are launching a complex immune system development program in the newborn. This development ends in about puberty. All kinds of external interventions, especially vaccinations, are evil and criminal. The abundance and function of the immunological elements of breast milk is awe-inspiring, one of the wonders of nature. So this is a very negative thing. " Please tell me this: Is his position correct? If this is not right, please provide evidence that he has spoken wrong. Do you intend to stop this vaccination or encourage pregnant women to become vaccinated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U760	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U761	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to remind you that vaccination is voluntary. Secondly, children of this age, or newborns, are not vaccinated, although it is possible to vaccinate at 16+ age. We know that vaccines are already available in the world for children 12 years of age and older. As for the opinion of your expert, I personally have no competence to make an assessment here. Vaccination, as well as maternity care or obstetrics, is a matter that makes sense to the Minister for Health and Labour. But if you ask me what was involved in your written text in relation to the proximity of the mother and infant to breast-feeding, I certainly have my own opinion on these issues, which is very positive about the proximity of the mother and child and about breast-feeding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U762	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U763	Let's move on to question 10. It has been presented by Riho Breivel and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is the plans for cuts in power structures. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U764	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I heard your favorable, benevolent attitude toward our defence forces. You said they were very good. Really, as an officer of the Defence Forces, I enjoy it. But for them to be good, we must have an officer and a commanding frame in the Defence Forces who can raise them for good. It is also in power structures. When we look at what is happening, what is happening is that we are reducing the budget for the power structures. By doing so, we direct the leaders of these paragraphs to reduce their personnel. If we begin to reduce the number of officers, I cannot imagine how we will improve this disservice in the future, because training an officer, a police officer, a border guard and a military officer, is a very expensive and demanding process. This can not be done, perhaps, even as simply as in the case of some other professional director, because there are ethical, moral features that are very important. They must be chosen people because they are responsible for people's lives in battle. If we now cut down and force staff to be reduced in power structures, in the future we may have to start training people again for expensive money. Experience has disappeared because those who go out of these structures find a good and well-paid job in other places very quickly. How do you solve this problem to keep these people safe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U765	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U766	First, to the Department of Defense budget. When we talk about active troops, the salaries of active troops are 30% above the average in Estonia. Teachers, for example, cannot afford this. Definitely the Defence Forces are very highly rewarded, and this is also a sign that these people are doing this work, teaching and certainly setting an example. As far as power structures in general are concerned, the task currently assigned to ministries is to find savings. As the Minister of Public Administration said, we have an excellent opportunity to reform the state, to find places where action can be taken in one place when, for example, several ministries have so far been involved. As regards the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, we are now at the stage where ministers are looking at where synergies could be found, these austerity points. There is nothing out of the ordinary about these reforms being made in a row. If we're thinking about the rescue squads, the Rescue Board's been reforming them and bringing more to volunteering. If we look at the rest of the world, then Europe has done it too, and volunteer rescuers have a pretty high share. If we look at the entire Rescue Board ambushed, there are fewer and fewer fires than we compare to the 1990s. How, in the Minister's view, these reforms could be carried out, this work is still ongoing. There is no overall picture of the savings that every minister comes up with, but I want to assure you that internal security will certainly not suffer in any way as a result.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U767	Now, the question to be specified. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U768	Good Prime Minister! You cannot in any way confirm that internal security and, let's say, the capabilities of the defence forces do not suffer from it. Because if we commit our superiors to reducing their budget and to reducing current expenditure, which is what they say, I say, erroneously, [staff costs], that we are reducing staff costs, even though this is not a current cost, the staff is a clean investment in my vision, and if you say that you have to take [less], then what is happening now in the defence forces and also happened at the border guard or the police is that orchestras are being laid off. Well, that's an example. We can tell him he's going to the museum, or one orchestra is going to disappear anyway. This means that drivers have already had to take a decision to reduce staff; people have already been given redundancy letters. This means that the Minister says today that he cannot change the decision of the Commander of the Defence Forces, because the Commander of the Defence Forces is, how to say, sovereign in his decision. It is, the decision of the Commander of the Defence Forces must be sovereign. But if we force him to take such steps as to squeal his soul, then we are, or are you, or have the government done, how to say, a vile step towards them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U769	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U770	Thank you. The defence budget will increase next year. That is why the question arises: if we were able to do all the activities we did before, how can we not do them again if the budget actually increases? If we look at the previous country's budget strategy, we will see that a billion empty cuts were written there. The state budget strategy, that is, 1+3 years of planning, only works if these plans are feasible and fair. Expenditure is made against revenue, and if it is recorded that a billion is cut in costs, then it is therefore as if a billion can be spent. But if the essence of the cut is not, then these are new costs for empty air, and instead we will not get zero, but we will get a billion additional minuses. We just can't live long like this. What's the problem? The problem is that every year ministries, including the agencies, come up with all kinds of ideas, all of which require more money. These are often such big dreams that I would like to make. If these dreams are made like money and this money is received against this empty cut, against an empty point of austerity, and if it turns out that we can't actually live like this, because we don't just have money, we're a billion short, we're over a billion, 1.7 billion short, then we don't really want to give up these dreams, but it's like we're sacrificing something that worked perfectly in the past, just to show that there's no need to save. But I don't think that's fair. The private sector has had to pull together during the crisis. No one asked them if they wanted or didn't want it, just the market fell off, and the money didn't come up hard enough, they had to make those decisions. Now that the public sector, which lives on taxpayers' money, who is maintained by the private sector, says that no, I am not willing to cut any costs, because I have all the necessary costs, it is simply not fair, because it is ultimately paid by the taxpayer, it is ultimately paid by the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U771	Now, one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U772	Thank you, Mr President. It seems to me, Prime Minister, that you did not specifically answer Riho Breivel's question. You didn't answer Mart Helme's questions about Allied soldiers. In answering Riho Breivel's question, you referred to the lack of money and nothing to do. I'll give you a good tip. A bill such as ABIS should probably be in this debate soon; it has created a great deal of passion. It will cost 14 million or 15 million, and in principle it will not be necessary because it is a duplication of existing systems. But I didn't want to talk about it, it just came up with a line right now. But on Monday, a citizen texted me on Facebook. I don't know who he is, he's called Tolik. I'm asking this question for people I don't know. I don't really know. This is as follows: "No minister was able to respond adequately to questions from any of your party's questioners. I would like to know, as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, what is going on there. Is it like the ministers are on some kind of drug or I don't know and I can't explain? Kind of weird that thing seems to me. Or do they really not understand what they're talking about? Correct me if I'm wrong, and if I'm not mistaken, tell me what I can do to disband this Riigikogu somehow, because it seems to me that the children in the sandbox are also a little smarter. " All I could do was say this: I try to ask this question in Question Time with some ministers in the same wording. I just did. Now, please, answer the people on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U773	Thank you. The Riigikogu is a cross section of society. Just as you have your own voters, I have my own voters. These people live in Estonia. The Riigikogu must be a cross-section of society. This means that there are people with different views as well as people with different levels of education and intelligence. In this sense, just as there are in society. This is probably the reflection that other choices can always be made in the Riigikogu elections so that different ambassadors can be made here. Maybe that would be my answer to that difficult question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U774	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U775	I have a request to be very brief, both to the questioner and to the respondent. Asks Riigikogu member Merry Aart, answers the Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. The subject is regional development. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U776	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. I will not make an introduction because there is little time. But I'm going to ask Jaak Aab if there's been any discussion of regional tax differences. It's always come up from time to time, and I think there's a point. But what about now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U777	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U778	Thank you. I can tell you that we didn't have this kind of conversation when we formed this government. I remember that there was one such stage in Estonia when the company's income tax was applicable outside Harjumaa and Tallinn. We had poor registers, so we couldn't make sure it worked, but there was a certain positive effect. It lasted a few years, then he disappeared, unfortunately it didn't work. I think that, rather, we have recently been guided by the fact that we have given more money to regions, regions, support programmes than to better developed regions. For example, CO2 money for local governments. There is such a formula that less financial capacity, where there is disincentive, can be obtained under less participatory and more flexible conditions. They have been developed in KredEx, apartment housing measures as crisis relief have already come to such an extent that it will be easier again in those areas. With the European Union's resources, we are also trying to take this into account. However, we are trying to make it more favourable in those regions where development has not been so rapid as to help both entrepreneurship and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U779	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the Government of the Republic for their response, and I thank the good fellows for asking. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U780	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Wednesday session of the 17th working week of the V session. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! That's not what you want. Then we'll conduct a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U781	70 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. We will begin the review of today's agenda. The first point is presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs... Mr Ossinovski has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U782	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question about this week's agenda. The Management Board has informed members of the Riigikogu that there are certain changes to our working schedule. I understand that. Could you please explain how the Board envisages the work of the Riigikogu until the end of this week, based on the messages that have come? I understand that you are assuming that the debate on a key national issue initiated by the Socialists tomorrow will not succeed on the message side of certain political groups, and then you have convened an additional sitting to discuss those points that will not be discussed this week, with the exception of the crucial national issue that the Social Democrats have asked to put on the agenda. When would you be able to discuss a key national issue for the Socialists in your vision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U783	Thank you for that question. I very much hope that we will be able to process today's agenda as soon as possible. And then tomorrow we will also be able to discuss the important national issue of the Social Democrats. Indeed, our Rules of Procedure provide that if a crucial national issue cannot be discussed on the proposed day, then a new time must be set for it. And then the Social Democrats will have to propose a new time. Whether it is next Thursday or any other time, it must be discussed with the Bureau and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U784	Thank you, Sir. Please, can we turn up the silence or the microphone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U785	I'm sure you can speak louder. I can do this. I hope you do, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U786	Thank you, Mr President. I did not understand your answer to the question of a good colleague, Mr Ossinovski. The point is that at the beginning of this week we approved the work programme for the week on Monday, and it also included the important national question "Equality in Estonia - Can poverty be cut off?" discussion. The rapporteur was appointed economic analyst Madis Aben.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U787	We know. There's no need to read it all, we know who it said.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U788	I'll explain it to you so you'll understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U789	I understand perfectly well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U790	Got it. Well, I'm dropping out right now. But I'll go on with my protest and problem. By what law does the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act allow the Riigikogu's decision to be amended when the agenda is announced? It should keep running in line. It's not your responsibility to do that. I mean, I think that the decision or question of Mr Ossinovski was entirely justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U791	I really hope that we... Once again, the same answer as Mr Ossinovski: we will work quickly, let us not focus on procedural issues, we will discuss the agenda, and then we will be able to discuss an important national issue tomorrow. The Bureau decides to convene an additional meeting, as well as what is on the agenda at the additional meeting. Otherwise, of course, all items on the agenda of the sitting will move forward, but there is a special procedure for OTRK. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U792	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Again, I have a problem with not being heard well. I respect Ossinovski very much, and I want to listen well to every word he says, but at the moment he spoke, we didn't understand what he was talking about. Did he talk quietly or is his mike bad? I hope that Mr Ossinovski will be heard well in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U793	Yeah, I'm sure you can hear me. I'm sure you can hear me. I think we can move on now. Mr. Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U794	Thank you very much, manager. I was thinking that since this issue, which the Social Democrats have brought, is a crucial national issue, it is of vital importance in terms of social equality, we could actually make such an exception that the hall can decide that we should put it on the agenda first. Let's settle the issue of the sots, and then we'll start discussing the other issues. Can we vote on a change in the agenda in the big Chamber and bring this point forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U795	Thank you. No, it's not. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U796	Good manager! Strangely, the same thoughts move in different minds. I didn't hear it either... I've got good hearing, I can hear the dwarf song, but I didn't hear Evgen. I don't know what he was talking about. Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, please keep the congregation a little under control so that all our unique ambassadors can be heard!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U797	I get the idea. We all really have the opportunity to be quiet in the hall and listen to each other, so it is much easier to take decisions and to keep thinking alike. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U798	Thank you, good vice chairman. My procedural question is precisely because, as I see it, some ambassadors have been informed in the same way, others in a different way. If, now, what I did not hear very much is what Ossinovski said that next week should be their OTRK, and I know that the Estonian Trouble Committee would argue for it too, can it be put on several OTRKs for one week?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U799	This will be decided by the Governing Board when the relevant requests have come. The Social Democratic Party Group has now proposed to discuss this specifically on the 10th day. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U800	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. That's the question. You indicated that the agenda had been announced. Okay. But [you also said] there is some sort of special procedure under OTRK. I would even believe you, I can't believe anyone else all the time. Please make a specific reference to the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, which gives the right to exclude this important national issue from this agenda. I'm still asking for the law so I can control it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U801	Thank you. First of all, let us clarify your mistake: we are talking about home and working procedures, not about working and working rules, and we are talking about an important national issue, not about an important matter of national importance. But be that as it may. Do you want some more in there...? Yes, Mr. Grünthal, I understand your wish. Would you like to... [[Kalle Grünthal is talking about this.]] When you're done, let me know. Hey, respectables! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Hello! We have a session of the Riigikogu in this Chamber. If there's one another... [[There's talk in between in the hall.]] There's no need to scream. There's no need to yell! I mean, if you two have conversations, you can have them on the other side. (Mart Helme speaks about the matter.) Mr. Helme, I'm trying to answer Mr. Grünthal right now. Please don't yell! We even have people here who guarantee order. So, Mr Grünthal, in answer to your question, the Group of the Social Democratic Party made a request to discuss it on the 10th day. If this fails on the 10th day, no one has changed this week's agenda, then it will fall out of the agenda procedure and be discussed again when a suitable day is found with the Social Democratic Party. Period. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U802	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to speak a little louder, too, so my colleagues can hear you. I understand how the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act works in this situation, but my question is practical. In what way does the Bureau advise the Social Democratic Party Group to act in this situation? In fact, according to the law, by the end of the working day tomorrow, the Bureau will issue the agenda for next week. If the Social Democrats would like it to be on the agenda for the next Thursday or Tuesday, this request should probably be made relatively immediately. Now the question is again that we do not know what agenda the Bureau is planning for next week. This week obviously has a planned agenda that has proved difficult to complete, perhaps not even succeeding, as it turns out, and therefore my question is how would you practically recommend to the Social Democratic Party Group to act. And the other half of the question: the Bureau decided that, despite the length of the additional sitting, I read from your announcement that the important national issue of the debate did not fit. Based on what considerations? Was this agreed with the Social Democrats, and were all members of the board consensually in favour of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U803	Thank you. I suggest that the Group and the Bureau of the Social Democratic Party discuss this tomorrow when we get there that your point will not be discussed. Today we do not know whether we can discuss it or not. I very much hope, in sincere faith and in cooperation with the entire Chamber, that we can discuss your proposal for a key national issue. As far as the agenda for the additional sitting is concerned, it was unanimously approved by the Bureau as it was sent out. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U804	Thank you, good vice chairman. My question is that you are giving these answers with a very broad fantasy. I was wondering: you said that on the 10th, which now means that if today comes at 10:00 and we still have a hearing, we could start the OTRK. Or did you mean the 10th of another month?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U805	Thank you. As was the case with the Social Democratic Party Group, on 10 June. The rules of procedure of the Riigikogu provide that we will start a meeting on 10 June at 10 a.m. and we can discuss this issue if we do not have any other items left on the agenda from the Wednesday session. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U806	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm trying to be very constructive. Perhaps this is not exactly in line with our home and our rules of procedure, but I will ask you this question. There will also be three speakers outside the house in the debate on the important national issue planned for tomorrow and what we want. There are sign language interpreters who are all ordered. Yeah, I'm sure they'll be ready to come tomorrow. Couldn't this agenda be dealt with in such a way that, as is the case with the appeal, it will take place tomorrow? And the extraordinary sessions, if today does not end on the agenda and they do not end by 9:00 tomorrow, then from 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, these points will go on. We have submitted a request for a debate on a key national issue on 10 June, as you have said several times. Now it has been written, which came from the Riigikogu's board, that there are extraordinary sessions, with the exception of the important national issue initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Would that be possible, would that be conceivable? Because you have to tell people. For example, a performer should then travel here from Viljandi County.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U807	Thank you. I admit that the situation is not very clear, precisely from the view of the speakers, but we will be able to deal with it together if we process today's agenda in the context of today's sitting, or at least tomorrow before 9 a.m. at the latest. If we can do that, we can start with your points tomorrow at 10:00. If we cannot do this, the Rules of Procedure really do provide that we will continue to deal with today's agenda in tomorrow's sitting where we are going with today's sitting. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U808	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. We have all received an invitation from this Bureau or a decision on the holding of an additional sitting on Saturday. It has been said here that the agenda item has not been discussed during this working week. Let's look at § 49 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which provides that members of the Riigikogu are made aware of the agenda of the sitting three days before the additional session takes place, but there is no word about it in this supplementary session's notice, there is no point in what the agenda for the Saturday and perhaps Sunday sitting is, i.e. what the points are, which are the drafts we are discussing. This is a very clear violation of our Home and Working Procedures Act. The Riigikogu has not been informed of the specific items that are to be discussed. This invitation is therefore null and void and it will not be possible to hold an additional sitting on Saturday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U809	Mr Pier, thank you for this question. As former Chairman of the Riigikogu, I believe you could also remember the Rules of Procedure. And the Rules of Procedure say that indeed the agenda will be announced. This agenda has been announced, and we have this agenda now. The debate on this agenda will take place on Saturday and Sunday, should these meetings take place. If we are not good enough to discuss these points on the agenda of this week, we will continue to discuss this week's agenda. That is the point of this additional sitting. There is no need to cause any more confusion in this sense. No new agenda item is planned for this additional sitting. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U810	Good manager! Composer Tõnis Kaumann has said that what was cut today, it was careless tomorrow. We have recently discussed a lot about how the budget is being cut in different ministries. And now you are also proposing to cut down on poverty, whether poverty can be cut out, and the decision is to cut it down. But the question is this: if next week's budget is also very tense before the end of the season, does that mean that we are cutting poverty, this is the first thing that we are cutting out, a matter of central importance, all these cuts by the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, social affairs and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U811	This, unfortunately, is not a procedural question, Mr Ernits. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U812	Thank you, Mr President. I would return to the proposal of a good colleague, Helmen Hunter. The fact that they have put up such a question as 'Equality in Estonia' can be cut out of poverty?' the debate is, in itself, extremely important in verbal terms, as well as very important in terms of content. And the fact that it has already reached the Riigikogu Hall under the name of OTRK shows that this is an extremely important point. I actually very much like Helmen's highly compromising proposal, so that this issue can still be discussed on Thursday, as it is planned, because there are substantively and substantially important circumstances here, such as the issue of poverty. The second question is that those people who have been invited come from a distance, they are prepared for it. So, let's say, let's discuss these issues as far as we can get here, the important national issue initiated by the Socialists will definitely stay on Thursday, and on Saturday we will move on to other things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U813	It's a clear idea. I've already answered that. That made sense. But I will say once again that we are dealing with the agenda according to how we run our agenda items. So you will also be able to end the procedure here and go to the agenda. And then we'll be able to get to the point of order tomorrow at 10:00. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U814	Thank you. I would also support the problem raised by Helmen Hunt. We do not have enough sign language translation, such as English, French or Russian. We really have very few of them. That means they have a lot of work to do, and they've planned their time. And this question, where we really need it, cannot be dealt with dynamically, so now, for example, we can have a free time on Saturday night and we will be dealing with it. Can you really imagine these interpreters coming in Saturday night or Monday night? But we can discuss our own points of discussion here as members of the Riigikogu at any time, because that is our job and we are on the ground. And the argument that you should do it quickly, do not stall, is not the right argument, because everything that concerns the law must be handled correctly, in a balanced and not hasty way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U815	Thank you. That is why the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal has been exactly on 10 June to discuss it in order to have a fixed day. And it is not on the agenda of the additional sitting either because there are foreign guests there. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U816	Thank you. I'm afraid I have to continue with the same subject. After all, the chair knows very well that the probability of discussing a crucial national issue tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. is negligible. And we can discuss here how much this probability is or how much it is not, but my question is, what can we plan, in the overall perspective, as a crucial national issue. The legislator, of course, must also react, but it must also be able to think and plan in advance. However, it is the responsibility of the Riigikogu's board to be able to plan the work of the Riigikogu. So what's the real solution? If we now imagine that the obstruction will last for days, maybe next week and perhaps the next week, then how can we actually plan a crucial national issue? For the rest of the items on the agenda, we need members of the Riigikogu who are at work 24/7, members of the government who are in the service of the Riigikogu on this issue, and also members of the Riigikogu's staff. We are all obliged to replan our schedule according to what happens in this Chamber and to respond to it. But from those people that we, as experts, invite to this house to share our competences with us, we cannot assume that they will come when the Riigikogu has now reached it day or night, it will be on the weekend or in the middle of the working day. So what's the solution in this situation? How can we even plan a debate on a key national issue in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U817	Thank you for that question. This is exactly how we can plan for a specific day for OTRK, and if this day fails, we must accept the fact that we need to find another day. As long as we have the Rules of Procedure that we currently have, we must follow this. If we are going to change the Rules of Procedure law, there will certainly be this debate too. And this, I can tell you, the Western Forest next to you has been in this working group on how to better organise the work of the Riigikogu, we are seriously debating. But once again, ladies and gentlemen, the longer we focus on procedural issues, the less likely we will be to discuss the matter of national importance tomorrow. Mr. Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U818	Thank you very much, Mr President. I actually have a proposal, and I have a very concrete proposal to solve this problem. A difficult time requires difficult decisions, and we are able to do so in the framework of these Rules. I support Helmen, I support Indrek Saart, and I also say that those people who have been invited here cannot mock them. And if, because of the obstruction, we are unable to discuss an important national issue, Article 56 (10) of the Rules of Procedure Act allows us to call these people, Madis Aben, Mari-Liis Sepper, Andres Rõigas, guests and they can make their political statements. We'll hear them out at exactly the right time, they'll be here in time, they'll make their political statements here, and we'll hear them out. And later on, when we get so far in time that we can go through this OTRK, we will also hear Riina Sikkut's speech and other speeches on the same issue. We can do this completely within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, but this requires the Bureau to take a short break now and discuss this idea. That is actually possible, Paragraph 56 (10).
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U819	I also have a good constructive proposal for you: not to deal with obstructions, to discuss matters in substance, and so we will be able to discuss OTRK very nicely tomorrow morning at 10:00. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U820	Thank you. The answer you gave to my previous question is legally completely incompetent. You will find that there are no specific drafts, their numbers, on the agenda of the invitation to a sitting sent out. This isn't a bad guy, is it? All the things that will be postponed to next week in some weeks will be specifically mentioned on the agenda for next week, and then the agenda for this week will be voted on and approved. Paragraph 49 of our Home and Working Procedures Act continues to require that, when an additional sitting is convened, a specific agenda should be set out, stating what the drafts, laws and other subjects are to be discussed. So I repeat: the additional sitting called for Saturday does not comply with the rules of procedure and rules of procedure that we have established, and therefore it is not possible to hold this sitting on Saturday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U821	Thank you for that question. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu decided by consensus to convene additional meetings and, among other things, to remove the agenda in the form we agreed, the agenda items not discussed on the 17th working week of the V session. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U822	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would say in this way that this answer to the procedural remark made by Mr Põllea is not correct. The Bureau may not replace the principles and provisions of the Rules of Procedure by a consensual decision. The Management Board cannot decide or take decisions contrary to the working and rules of procedure and then tell the Riigikogu that the decision of the Management Board is compulsory, but we will this time selectively set aside the rules of procedure and work. I come back to the Monday debate, which also changed the agenda. Today's debate is the continuation of this Monday debate. On Monday, our group proposed to change the agenda. The representative of the management board, at that time the chairman of the Riigikogu, stubbornly refused to take a break and to call the board of elders, but perhaps also to bring the agenda change down. Right now, you're acting just as stubborn. And since you're being so stubborn, we're also forced to act stubbornly. The procedures are designed to be agreed upon by means of legislative acts governing our work, but not by virtue of the discretion, desire and will of any member of the Governing Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U823	Thank you. I will explain to you again what happened on Monday. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure provide for us that if there is a proposal to change the agenda, but at least one political group opposes it, the agenda will not be changed and the vote will take the form proposed. That's first. This was exactly what happened here on Monday. Secondly, once again, as far as the additional sitting is concerned, if we are good and can handle all the items on this week's agenda, there is no need for an additional sitting. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U824	Thank you, good manager. I cannot remind you of the fact that there has been such a precedent that the crucial national issue has not been addressed at all. But right now, we are in a situation where you can make proposals here for those who are planning the obstruction so that they can cancel the obstruction, but this is a perfectly legal tool for the opposition. And it is the responsibility of the Riigikogu's board, where the majority is in the hands of the coalition, to ensure the working capacity of the Riigikogu, whatever means you achieve it. But what we are talking about is that we can change our home and work arrangements in the future means that as long as we do not change it, and obviously not yet this season, there will be no major national issue. I don't think it's a good idea to change the way the Riigikogu works. What are you still doing to ensure that, as the title says, we can have a debate on a crucial national issue, just as the Social Democrats have fully put together the content of this debate, called experts, and we have a perfectly legitimate expectation that we can carry it out, in accordance with the law on home and working procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U825	Yeah, I may be a soul-bound optimist, but I really hope we can handle it today without obstruction. But we're predicting something we don't know exactly. We've heard from here and there, from some social media, that all the possibilities are being used, but that's not someone's goal. And believe me, it is indeed the wish of the Bureau that the Social Democrats, too, can exercise their right to debate a crucial national issue. If this does not work this Thursday, we really need to find a solution with you as soon as possible when this can be done. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U826	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I understand today in this Chamber, there should be an additional sitting on Saturday, an additional sitting of the Riigikogu. I opened for interest Article 49 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and this paragraph 3 states: "The additional sitting is called by the President of the Riigikogu. The President of the Riigikogu shall inform the members of the Riigikogu of the convening at least three days before the additional sitting takes place through the media. " And now I have the question: what date, what time and through what media did this additional meeting take place? 'Cause I'm telling you honestly, I'm just hearing this in this hall right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U827	Kalle Grünthal, I do not want to judge you in any way, but it is very difficult to believe that you have not really followed your mailbox, have not read any media in which, in all or most of us, this announcement has now appeared that an additional session of the Riigikogu will take place. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U828	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The question is that you are saying that the organisers of the obstruction should cancel it so that we can discuss a particularly important issue on Thursday. This statement of yours unethically puts the organizers of the obstruction as an addiction, that they are going to restrict the debate on a particularly important issue. It's not like that. Next, you can say that, ladies and gentlemen, do not express your opinion, this will delay time. This is not the way we can lead Parliament. Parliament is a sovereign entity and works exactly as the Rules of Procedure provide, with a flexible approach to these issues under the leadership.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U829	Thank you. The Management Board is guided in its work by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U830	Good manager! You're talking here, you're complaining that the opposition can use obstruction to disrupt the work. This is, by the way, a legal method, parliamentary. But I'm asking if you've thought about it, haven't you looked in the mirror yourself? Instead of calling on the Bureau and discussing the essence of this Socialist proposal that it will not be cut out, you are currently dealing with obstructionism.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U831	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu does not deal with obstructionism. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U832	Thank you very much. Good Hanno, I actually have a real proposal to solve the problem, a seriously real proposal, and this specifically concerns the Rules of Procedure. We are taking a flexible approach here, a compromise, and we have such an idea that we could now withdraw point 11 from this bill 366 and then move on logically, rollingly. And we can also solve this way that OTRK comes in and this 366 SE we could push backwards for the last point. This requires, of course, a change in our weekly schedule, but this is also possible because §56 (2) of the Home and Working Procedures Act allows for this. We'd do it, and we'd solve this thing on the run, and you'd have eaten the sheep, and the wolves would've been healthy, or was it the other way around? just so OTRK can also be done and we can finally discuss this 366 SE. So that's the idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U833	Thank you. Paragraph 56 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act talks about updating the Riigikogu agenda and not making changes there. This is Mr. Woodland, unfortunately, wrong. Secondly, unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not allow this change to the approved agenda. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U834	I actually had a different question of protest. Since you have now answered Mr Puustusmaa's question that our law does not allow the agenda to be changed, I wonder how it will be possible to change the agenda for a key national issue for the social democrats. Look, I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U835	We're not changing the agenda. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U836	Thank you. I will continue with the question of the legitimacy of the further sitting. According to our Working and Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu must be informed in advance of the specific agenda. The session of the Riigikogu is not just a place to roll and show itself; it is a place to do work. The fact that we can work hard also requires that we prepare to process these drafts, we go through them, we read them, we discuss them with each other when it is necessary. But to do so, we need to know in advance the specific items on the agenda. Without it, it will not be possible to hold a sitting or to convene additional sittings. So I ask the Bureau to send me and all the good colleagues you will be arriving today on the specific agenda of the additional sitting on Saturday, which lists all these drafts, decisions and other issues that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U837	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U838	And please read them to me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U839	Mr. Fieldace, there's a yellow paper on your desk with the agenda for this week. If we get to the Wednesday session debate, hopefully we will arrive at it after two procedural questions, every point that we are dealing with will mean that it will not be in the supplementary session. Any item which is not processed, with the exception of the OTRK, shall be in a further session. And you know very precisely that you and the Group have had a chance to discuss this, so that all the agenda we have ahead of us will have to be discussed this week. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U840	Good manager! As I see it now, this socialist poverty-stricken thing is likely to be out of the picture at all this season. And my question, Mr President, will it be a precedent for the government coalition led by the Reform Party to be the first to cut out poverty as a key national issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U841	Peter Ernits, this is all in your own hands, either it's off the agenda or we can discuss it tomorrow. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U842	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am still coming to the problem raised by Henn Põlluaas. Indeed, the second paragraph of Article 49 of our Home and Working Procedures Act states...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U843	I know what he's saying. Tell me what your question is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U844	No, you don't know what I'm saying again. Are you okay with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U845	I'm saying I know what § 49 says.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U846	"The decision to hold an additional sitting will be taken and its agenda will be prepared by the Management Board of the Riigikogu. " Look, there is nowhere to see this agenda, which was then prepared. I'd like to know. At least if you say it's somewhere in this media. Okay, I haven't had time to watch that e-mail today. But the question is, does this three days now fit into the time of this Saturday sitting, that is point one. Point two, is there also an item on the agenda? And if there isn't, then actually, on Saturday, we can't have this additional hearing because of the violation of our rules of procedure law...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U847	I get the question. Once again, I will say the same: you have the agenda on your desks and everything that is not dealt with on the agenda on your tables today will be discussed at the next sitting, which is the proposal. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U848	Thank you, good manager. However, I would like to come back to discussing this crucial national issue. All right, if we move forward on this agenda now, despite the fact that we are having an emergency session this weekend, hypothetically we will not be able to reach the OTRK. In fact, the Riigikogu Board has to approve the new week's agenda for us on Thursday. Am I right? Okay. That's where my question comes from. Is OTRK on next week's agenda? Or how about at all... We know that the current coalition is implementing a very bad practice, so that other readings and third readings are going to be done within one week, which is why we are actually planning this weekend session so that you can carry it out. But where have you planned next week to discuss this crucial national issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U849	This has not been discussed by the Bureau at the moment because it is on the agenda on Thursday and we have not reached Thursday. If this is not discussed on Thursday, of course the Board of the Riigikogu will immediately contact the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Riho Breivel.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U850	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I do not agree with your attitude of this kind, you are trying, like the removal of this particularly important issue, to put the opposition on the back of its head, that if we are dealing here, as you say, with stretching, this issue will not be discussed. The question is, however, that the opposition has the tools that it has, and it uses them, just as you did when you were in the opposition. So I beg you, don't blame us for what's not ours!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U851	I'm inviting you to cooperate, not to impose on anyone, first. Secondly, all guests coming to the Riigikogu hall, on different agendas, whether within the OTRK or in the framework of the Eesti Pank report or some other institution report, must take into account that the Riigikogu has its own working schedule. If the opposition of the Riigikogu uses an obstruction and this item remains undisputed, then all our guests must be aware that it is unfortunately not possible for them to present here before us on this day. That's right. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U852	Good manager! I have this question, from a completely different opera. Has the Board of the Riigikogu discussed that all our esteemed colleagues will be able to attend the planned marathon session with their lives by Monday morning? The marathon is over 60 hours. Has the board been discussing this so that there will be no disappearances?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U853	Thank you. It's in our hands how long we work here. Paul Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U854	Thank you, Hanno! Here I went to some trouble. You referred to the fact that changing according to § 56 cannot be implemented insofar as you talked about supplementing, and these are two different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U855	But you said § 56 (2), you referred to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U856	Yeah, yeah. But now I saw that when we look at § 54 (3) and § 55 (2) and their comments, in conjunction with the addition and modification of the same things, it is possible to take them both and also. In principle, additions can also be seen as modifications, but in any case such modifications are possible if no political group objects. So to actually say that the addition-shifting we have to numbly separate, can't. They can be dealt with together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U857	However, I would point out that this supplementing clause in Paragraph 56 (2) also refers to the fact that before the agenda is approved. There can only be distinctions in very listed cases, such as mistrust proceedings, which are set out in different provisions. All other conventional additions and modifications are not possible. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U858	Thank you, good vice chairman. I ask whether the Board of the Riigikogu has discussed, let's say, the origin of the problem as such. There may be accusations to delay, but we have seen that neither in questioning nor in Question Time are we getting substantive answers to the questions. If there are such sensitivities in society, but the ministers are essentially not responding, but are simply witty here and talking about what the previous government did, has the Bureau discussed that we could prevent it in the future and ministers could provide substantive answers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U859	Thank you. Just as the members of the Riigikogu are free to ask questions, all respondents are free to decide how they respond. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U860	Thank you. I will come back again and again to the jurisdiction of this additional sitting, the legal validity. After all, you too, the President-in-Office, have a long-term experience of the work of the Riigikogu. Have you ever seen such a thing in your practice that when a sitting is convened, where a specific agenda needs to be set out, it is written in a way that we do not know what will come, maybe some things, but may not, maybe other things will come. After all, this is absolutely unprecedented, not in accordance with our own rules of procedure and with our own rules of procedure. It is not possible to convene an additional sitting or an extraordinary sitting in such a format, albeit a regular session. This is a serious violation of the Bureau's rules of procedure and work, a cull. I suggest that the board take a break, come together, discuss this topic and present a specific agenda to the members of the Riigikogu, which we will discuss at the additional session, not so that one question or another may suddenly be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U861	Mr. Pier! I can assure you, there won't be another question. The only questions coming up are the ones on the yellow paper, on your desk, too. Peter Ernits, please! Excuse me, Mr. Ernits! Once again, to the Field Area: if we are doing well, we do not need to meet on Saturday-Sunday. Mr. Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U862	Good manager! I'll come back to my last procedural question. Mr Lotman here pointed out that we had alternates. Has the Executive Board of the Riigikogu discussed how many alternates can come to the Riigikogu this weekend, as some ambassadors may not be able to survive?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U863	Haven't discussed it. Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U864	Good manager! I'll come back to your one words that sounded like a few questions. You said it was in our own hands to resolve this situation. I'm a little confused here, and I don't understand why you're talking about yourself in plural and we're talking about you. I would like to remind you that on Monday, there were several proposals from this Chamber on how to proceed smoothly to this week's agenda. These proposals were not accepted, and in fact you are dealing with the obstruction today. For these proposals, how this week's agenda would go smoothly and nicely even without additional sessions and there would be a discussion of a crucial national issue, were all done on Monday, but 'we' will sit there and not listen to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U865	By "we," I meant 101 members of the Riigikogu. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U866	Thank you very much. I would like to return to the so-called legal mess that you have now caused on the Board of the Riigikogu. First of all, a follow-up message has been sent to my e-mail that there will be an additional sitting, but the items that have not been discussed during this working week will be discussed, with the exception of a key national issue initiated by the Social Democratic Party. Okay. Then, in principle, you reproached the Social Democrats, but you yourself indicated that date there, 10 June. I am looking at § 153 and here I read: "... a political group may initiate a debate on a crucial national issue by submitting a request to the Riigikogu's management board. The request shall state the matter to be discussed and the time required for the debate. " This is what they wanted now, that is, what the Social Democrats wanted. But the question is that the Riigikogu's management always has the opportunity to move this date there and there. Now we have the agenda fixed at the beginning of this week and it is confirmed that this debate will take place on 10 June. Okay. But it is incomprehensible to me that here we cannot in advance accuse the social democrats that they marked the date because they only wanted it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U867	Mr. Grünthal, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U868	How?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U869	Is there a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U870	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U871	Come on, if there's a question, let's just ask and move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U872	Hey, you guys, listen to me all the way, please! And now I would like to know which section of our law gives the board the right to change the important national issue so that we do not discuss it today when it is put on the agenda and the Riigikogu has approved it. Tell me the paragraph. Don't talk round to me, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U873	The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu regulate our working time and it regulates, among other things, how we discuss our agenda. If the agenda items are not discussed one day, they shall be postponed to the following day. In the case of OTRK, once again, the Social Democrats have proposed to discuss it on the 10th day. If this discussion fails on the 10th day, of course the Riigikogu Board will contact the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu and try to find a solution to the situation. I think that this has been clarified several times and I do not need to start explaining it again. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U874	Good manager! There is one law, the Riigikogu has adopted a law called the Working Time and Recreation Act. And there is § 4, "General state standard of working time": "The general state standard of working time is 8 hours a day, or 40 hours a week. " And now the Board of the Riigikogu has stipulated that 24 hours plus 40 hours will be added to the weekend alone, but all that is behind us will be more. Has the Bureau discussed how the law on working time and rest periods is being taken into account in the case of extraordinary sittings at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U875	Thank you. The Working and Rest Time Act does not regulate the work of members of the Riigikogu. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U876	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Now, listen, I think it's the third time I've asked. Please mention this paragraph, which gives the right to other clarification I do not want, only that which gives the right to exclude the item 'Equality in Estonia' placed on the agenda of the Social Democratic Party! Please name the norm!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U877	Mr Grünthal, the governing board of the Riigikogu does not exclude the Social Democratic Party Group from the agenda. The impossibility of discussing this item is the name of this matter if we do not reach the debate on this item at 10 a.m. on Thursday. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U878	Yeah, thanks! You just said one thing. I read the letter that was sent to us, and you said that it was not excluded, but it clearly says "except," which means "except" in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U879	Mrs. Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U880	Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U881	We are talking about this week's agenda and tomorrow's agenda. The Management Board of the Riigikogu will not exclude from tomorrow's agenda. The agenda for the additional sitting shall be adopted by the Bureau and that is what we have done. And indeed, the OTRK was not planned on the agenda for the additional sitting. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U882	Thank you very much, Mr President. You said to my question that I have abused the word "except" here, but Helle-Moonika Helme said it was still in here. Consequently, I would like to know under which section you have the right to exclude this Socialist item from the agenda of the week approved by the Riigikogu. Tell me the paragraph, don't talk to me about the rounds.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U883	Mr. Grünthal, reading the law will make the law easier to understand. Once again: this week's agenda, which you have on your tables, is now on the table for discussion, including, among other things, we are now starting a draft decision of the Riigikogu presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, etc. If we do not finish these agenda items, which are on the Wednesday agenda, then we will continue with them on Thursday. Just as you remember from Monday, we missed the question because we were on the clock at 00.00 hours, and we resumed the discussion on Tuesday, the points currently on the agenda will go on. An additional agenda is a new session with a new agenda. And on this point, the Riigikogu Board has decided that there are agenda items on the agenda of the additional sitting, which were not discussed on the agenda of this week, with the exception of OTRK. How many times do I have to explain the same thing to you? Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U884	Thank you very much. Good Hanno, you are well aware of the rule of law, which is why you have some kind of picture that will allow you to solve this stalemate. I understand you don't want to do this. But if you tried and you tried to solve the situation that you ate the wolves and the sheep were healthy, maybe we'd discuss this 366 SE sometime later and prefer the OTRK presented by the sots? Then we wouldn't hurt anyone, anyone, or any guest. We have a chance to find a solution, and I think you know that. Come on, give me that chance and let's do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U885	We have the opportunity to discuss the points in substance, not for an hour already to deal with topics that there are 25 times as many as 25 times as possible, perhaps Utreining a little bit, I'm sorry! be answered, discuss these points in substance and also reach draft 366. I don't know what the EKRE faction is planning or anyone else. What I know is that we have an agenda ahead of us, which we would have in a perfectly normal way in normal processing, in normal processing, until Thursday until 9 a.m., and at 10 a.m. on Thursday we could start with OTRK. It's as simple as that. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U886	Yes, thank you! Indeed, in the case of an additional sitting, you have referred to the items that are not covered here before the additional sitting. I would still like to know why this important matter of national importance, initiated by the Social Democratic Party, was removed when it was on this agenda. On what motives or on what basis? I don't understand your behavior right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U887	That was the decision of the board. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U888	Thank you, good vice chairman. You're saying that your agenda, which is agreed by the board, is a winch-winkle. But I've counted, there are 12 other readings. This means that every ambassador is the only way to get a remote control when there is a second reading, because in the first and third, everyone represents a political group. We're all running for the local elections, and many people want to say something under these points. Did it come as a surprise to you that 12 other readings were given one day? Was it such a thoughtful and prudent decision, or did it come as a surprise to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U889	We have had significantly longer agendas in the past and with significantly more readings. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U890	Thank you, good vice chairman. I'll help you out a little bit. You said you didn't know what the plan was for one party or another. Yes, it is true that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has a plan to do an obstruction for the sake of this Act 366. I think you know that too. So, frankly, you should think about how we can deal with the Socialist OTRK as well. So now you have it, too, and there's probably a pretty good chance that all the timelines are going to explode.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U891	We'll see. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U892	Yeah, thanks! You threw up a phrase here so that we could process our agenda nicely, with the usual procedure, in short, as originally planned. But my question. Obstruction is a form of procedure granted to the opposition, that is, it is not prohibited, it is common practice. Did you, in your expression or in your saying it, rule out the possibility of obstruction? Or shouldn't it be? Or what did you mean by the usual procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U893	Previous practice of the Riigikogu. If there is an obstruction, then we must continue to act on it. As a result, the Board of the Riigikogu has also planned further meetings. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U894	Thank you very much. In my view, on Monday this week, there was a protest in this very Chamber because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was grossly in breach of the Commission's rules of procedure, not taking into account the views of the Members of the Commission, but all the amendments and their unification were actually made by the Commission's officials. When this protest also reached you in writing, there was Mr Jüri Ratas on the board who said that yes, so it is that the Riigikogu board will review it immediately and immediately. It is already Wednesday and we have not received any feedback about the protest we have made. Have you dealt with this protest and watched it? And if not, why have you not addressed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U895	Thank you. The Riigikogu Board discussed this yesterday. I'm sure you'll get more detailed feedback, but the general rule is that committees have a wide range of decision-making powers, first of all. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu itself do not provide for such an opportunity that a group protests and sends this protest to the Riigikogu Board for review. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U896	Good manager! As Mr. Chef here said, yes, we will give this marathon battle until Monday morning. And this is also known by the Riigikogu Board in corpore. Clearly, in this situation, the important debate of the Socialists hangs on a hair, to say the least. But has the Board of the Riigikogu not thought that it would be possible to come together once again and discuss the issue of the big brother's bill 366, either to withdraw it or to place it on the agenda, as has been proposed here before, at a time other than now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U897	Thank you. I have already answered that question. That agenda we have ahead of us, that's what we have to follow. There are, in principle, only two ways in which a question can be taken out of the agenda: either the initiator withdraws this draft or there is an inability to discuss it, as set out in the Rules of Procedure Act. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U898	Thank you, good vice chairman. You are obviously the most competent person here to answer that question. As a matter of fact, let us say that if a political group now proposes to remove this very important national issue from the agenda on Thursday and another political group protests it, it will go in, but we will not be able to deal with it. Does that mean that he will fall out of trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U899	When we talk about OTRK, OTRK will be offered a specific date, and if it is not possible to discuss that date, a new date will have to be found, so it will fall out of the agenda. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U900	Thank you. You told me, in reply, that indeed the obstruction is part of the normal procedure. And in view of that, the plan is to have an emergency hearing, well, in advance. But an emergency hearing must also deal with matters normally. And as a rule, OTRK was on the agenda. Why is the letter sent to us excluded, perhaps with the exception of OTRK, which has been agreed on Monday in the normal procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U901	Thank you. Because such a decision was made by the Board of the Riigikogu, which decided not to convene an extraordinary sitting but to convene an additional sitting. In accordance with the law, the agenda for the additional sitting must also be decided separately. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U902	Thank you very much. When I asked about the protest that our party filed on Monday, you said that the Riigikogu Board reviewed it, but did not make any decision. At the same time, it is well known to us that there was a complaint about the activities of another committee and that it was examined by the Riigikogu Board. I think it was 14-15 days, even. And for so long, the action and decisions taken by this committee had been suspended. I ask: why do you know the difference, I mean, in protests from different committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U903	This is not a procedural question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U904	Good manager! I'm just asking for myself. An additional meeting has been convened on 12 June at 5 p.m. It could last Monday morning until 9:00. Didn't the board discuss that there was supposed to be some kind of a couple of hours break between this long marathon? Because if a person wants to sit in this hall all this time, at some point he would like to drink water and eat and solve all other problems. It would have been logical for two or three additional sessions to be convened, but in the meantime there would have been either an hour or a two-hour break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U905	Thank you. Our session today, too, started at 12 o'clock in Question Time and ends tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock, so it's long in that sense as well. I guess we've all gotten used to it and seen how it works, and we're trying to get our job done. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U906	Thank you very much. It doesn't make any sense to me that I think I'm asking a completely procedural question, but you're saying it's not a procedural question. My question was this: why are the protests on the activities of one committee being examined by the Riigikogu Board, but the protests on the activities of the other committee are again dismissed? This is about the principle of equality. What gives you the right, or what gives you the right to do such unequal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U907	Thank you. Issues relating to the conduct of the sitting are governed by § 74 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. And this does not concern the sitting you are asking for. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U908	Good manager! You said in clear Estonian that the law on working and rest periods does not apply in the Riigikogu. But why don't you call me a section of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act on working and rest periods and related matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U909	I can find you right now. This is § 47, which talks about the timetable for the work of the Riigikogu. Please! Kalle Grünthal, you already have a 13th procedural question. I hope that this concerns the holding of a sitting and then we can proceed with today's sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U910	Yes, thank you! You said that this protest I have referred to is not on the agenda of the sitting, but yet you do not answer the question why you are addressing the principle of inequality in this matter. Because there's a causal link. First of all, if, let's say, the Commission violates the norms, then this violation of the norm will extend to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Maybe we're practically engaged in illegal activity when the roots are somewhere deep. It's a procedural question. And this is through the causality also, let's say, this draft 366 as a substantive part actually.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U911	Thank you. I continue to believe that this does not concern the conduct of the sitting, but as I have already told you, the Bureau examined this issue yesterday. Mr. Grünthal, the 14th procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U912	I am very pleased if you say "question 214" today, but I would still like to know...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U913	I'm not gonna give you the 214th procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U914	What is the operative part and justification of your decision on the Board of the Riigikogu? Can you quote me exactly, or can't you quote it exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U915	No, thank you! There are no further procedural questions. Let's go to today's first... Mr. Grünthal. We can agree that I will finish here at 4:00, then Martin Helme will come here and maybe I will explain the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu separately. We do not have to hold this debate, as everyone has heard, about what is in the Rules of Procedure, which are not in the Rules of Procedure, which are within the competence of the Bureau and which are not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U916	Can I have a word in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U917	Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U918	You're welcome? Thank you. The thing is, respectable... [[Voices in the hall.]] What do you got?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U919	So, do you have a question? Mr. Fieldace, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U920	Push the button! Here's the question. Let's say, in our judicial area, it's always possible to file a complaint against any of the officials' activities or the police's activities to some higher body. If you say that protest is not subject to review, that is not your case, then there is still an institution in the Riigikogu, where the 'Commission' level can go over absolutely all the standards. It's a total violation of the Constitution. It should be said here that the management of the Riigikogu has the right to apply certain issues which are not governed by other laws or by this law, so to speak, to take decisions. By saying that it does not belong there, the Board of the Riigikogu will, in principle, lose control of the possibility that legitimate decisions will also be taken in committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U921	Mr. Pierce, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U922	Dear President-in-Office, good Hanno Pevkur, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! I hear a perfectly clear, irritated tone in your voice, and I also see that you are frustrated. Once, when the Riigikogu began its work, it was chaired by the President of the Riigikogu and had no opportunity to take a break, not even to go to the bathroom in the meantime, if no one showed mercy to him, to a group chairman or to anyone, or to make a recess proposal. But today, there is an opportunity for all the chairmen to take a break. You don't want to, do you? I suggest you take a break, you can rest, calm down on all these issues, and then in half an hour we'll go on nicely again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U923	Thank you for this proposal, but I'm fine. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U924	Thank you very much, good Hanno! I'm still looking for this compromise all the time. And I thought we had one other option. Paragraph 13 (18) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides an opportunity to make changes in the case of unregulated matters. I mean here, we could move forward as peacefully as we are. And then, when we get to Thursday morning and we haven't solved yet, no matter what point we have in the debate, we'll switch it and take the OTRK forward. This situation is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure Act, but we are able to do so on the basis of the same paragraph 13 (18). Would such a thing be possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U925	I'm glad you're reading the law. I can assure you that the points that we currently have on the agenda are all regulated. Mr. Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U926	I have such a suggestion for you: if you come down from that high point of view, and your time has fallen, I mean, not in that sense, but, say, the time has passed, please call a member of your Reform Party a good Mrs. Vilja, who is going to reprimand me here with a very angry and serious face if I ask any questions. Remind him that the word of a member of the Riigikogu is free and even members of the Reform Party do not have the right to intervene in the questions and protests I put. This is not, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu, a protest at all, it is such a human request. I mean, I understand you're upset, and Mrs. Vilja is upset, and so on, at least she was red from her face, but maybe it was because of the hot atmosphere that's here. However, please maintain courtesy, let us say, also members of the Reform Party. Because there was another case here today...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U927	Mr Grünthal, this is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U928	Yeah, but it's just a request.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U929	Yeah. Thank you! But I also ask the members of the Riigikogu to maintain the courtesy and respect for the Home and Working Procedures Act and to say so. If there really is a real question about the procedure for conducting the sitting, I would be happy to answer. If you just want to talk, there's a free microphone on Mondays. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U930	Good manager! I can see that colleagues have become nervous, even though the hearing has not actually begun yet. But my question is about that. All of us are unique and valuable, but during these marathon night sessions, our good coalition members must be here all the time and on full alert. Has the Board of the Riigikogu, in the form of a vice-chairman and chairman, thought about the health of its people? It's easier for us to be here in a defensive battle or attack than for you to be standing by for over 60 hours. Have you thought about protecting your people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U931	Thank you. I am concerned about the health of all 101 members of the Riigikogu, especially mentally. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U932	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand that the leadership of your coalition is basically such a cheerful, so-called, full society, right? But don't forget that there are also a little more elderly people in this group who may find such a marathon session very frustrating. I'm serious...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U933	This is not a procedural question, Mr Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U934	Please let me finish!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U935	Seriously, please...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U936	Let me finish!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U937	Please! I understand you have a desire to talk all the time, but I will say once again that I have offered you an opportunity: I am also kindly prepared to come to the cafeteria with you as a member of the board...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U938	Mr President, let me finish my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U939	...take a coffee. Let's sit down, see how each other has a pulse and talk calmly, okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U940	You can't decide until I have this thing...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U941	Yes, but, Mr. Grünthal, I am now exercising the authority of the President. Once again, if you have a wish to ask, ask. I do not need to be given such a long tirate or a lecture about how someone has health or how someone has said it. If you have a question about the conduct of the hearing, ask the question. You have the 18th question right now. I do not see that your colleagues have as many concerns as you do, and this throughout the sessions. If you need special training, I will agree with the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to give you an introduction to the Riigikogu's home and operating procedures to how the law works.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U942	I want to tell you this because it's also in the verbogram, that's the thing. Did you also think about the health of older people who have to come here and stay up for several nights? Who's responsible after they have a fatality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U943	Once again, we all have the opportunity to make our contribution so that no one, either older or younger, should be here all night. We work the law and we get to go to other jobs. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U944	Good manager! I sincerely asked about health, especially for members of the coalition, because they face this challenge much greater than the opposition. But you were referring to spiritual problems here. Are you saying someone here could go crazy with night hearings? Who could they be? Can you point?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U945	Thank you. This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U946	Let's move on to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, amending the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The presentation will be made by Imre Sooäär, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U947	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu presented this draft, "amending the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe" including on 31 May. The draft provides for the appointment of Mr Mati Raidma as a member of the delegation in place of Mr Johannes Kerd, who, unfortunately, left us early. The composition of the delegation after the decision of the Riigikogu has been amended, once we have adopted it here, is as follows: the Head of Delegation Mati Raidma, members Marko Šorin and Heljo Pikhof and alternate members Anti Poolamets and Sven Sester. No amendments were tabled by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board, 2 June 2020 at 5.15 p.m. At its meeting on 3 June, the Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions on the draft: First, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that 398 Riigikogu plenary items be placed on the agenda of the 8 June sitting and that the final vote on the draft be taken at the same sitting. Secondly, the draft rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is the speaker here. The decisions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs were consensual. I ask the Riigikogu to support this draft decision!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U948	A good waitress, members of the Riigikogu have many questions about this meaningful and comprehensive draft. Riho Breivel will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U949	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U950	I can't hear you very well. Can you tell me more?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U951	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Not that I have anything against Mati Raidma, he has been a very good and good leader, I ask whether the Commission was considering other candidates. This decision, as I understand it, was consensual, but was there any more debate about other people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U952	Thank you, good questioner! The debate was very short. All representatives of the opposition and coalition were present at the meeting of the Commission. No one else offered an alternative candidate. There was a little discussion about what would happen to Sven Sester, who was there. The answer to this question was that he would move to the delegation of the Baltic Assembly and get the same dignified position there. No one offered any more alternative candidates.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U953	Mr. Tamm, do you have a procedural question or a substantive question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U954	Yes, I have a procedural proposal to direct the hearing impartially, without any irony comments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U955	Thank you! Mr. Reitelmann, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U956	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have the impression that Sven Sester is an intelligent man of good understanding and ability to speak. Can you explain why Mr. Sester is no longer fit for this post as head of delegation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U957	Thank you, good Urmas! I fully agree with your opinion about a good colleague, Sven Sester, and I think he can perform his duties in the Baltic Assembly with his personal qualities as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U958	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U959	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Let me ask you a little bit more. Such delegations in such organisations often deal with very general, very broad political issues and often with representation as a fact seems to be the most important. Was there any mention of this and, if so, what are the objectives or tasks set for the delegation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U960	Thank you. Good question! The specific answer to your question is: no talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U961	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U962	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is very well written here, very clearly enough, to exclude Mr Kert, the alternate of the delegation from the delegation. You guys are really nice on the remote, we all know you brought that up. But was it discussed in the Commission that the reason for this could actually have been put in the explanatory memorandum simply for the sake of history, right, and in the interests of those people who may never, in the future, look at this explanatory memorandum and may not find it here and may think something else. Is that what you were discussing in the committee so that it could be put in there in such a nice way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U963	Thank you, good questioner! That's a perfectly good point. Such things could also be in the explanatory memorandum if, for some reason, we were to replace the members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U964	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U965	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Without doubt, we are currently discussing a very important issue, and it is crucial that there are people in these delegations whose personal qualities would allow this work to be done in the best possible way. I now have this question for you: what do you think the qualities of the head of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) should be? Could you list ten qualities in order of importance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U966	Thank you, good questioner! I am absolutely convinced that the new head of delegation proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mati Raidma, has all the personal qualities that are absolutely necessary in such an honorable place. He has been the head of delegations of a large number of international organisations and the head of international missions on the UN route. I think he has everything he can to do this duty with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U967	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U968	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I would have asked you a procedural question, but it might have devalued its contents. For the sake of the stenogram. I read that this is the first reading of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and you said that amendments have already been tabled. Shouldn't these amendments come between first and second readings? Or do we have something wrong with some paperwork? Is today the final vote? It is kind of incomprehensible that no amendments were tabled, but it is only after the first reading that amendments can be tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U969	Thank you, good questioner! There are no three readings in the formation of international delegations, as is the case with most drafts. That is how this draft decision will be put to the vote if no one has any comments or an alternative candidate. This is the decision of the Riigikogu today, the first reading has already taken place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U970	This decision shall be taken at one reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U971	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U972	No amendments are proposed to the decision of the Riigikogu on the formation of such external delegations. Coming to the Commission...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U973	They can be carried out through the Commission, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U974	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U975	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This delegation was formed as early as May 2019. But I have a question. I assume it exists, but since I'm not in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I'm not in the loop, and now I'm asking you to explain. Does this delegation also have any objectives and an action plan or is it simply called "Delegation"?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U976	Thank you. This delegation has a very long and comprehensive regulation. Its history, etc., is beautifully available on the Riigikogu website, there is a list of all the delegations that the Riigikogu makes up. I suggest you read it, there's a pretty long explanation for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U977	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U978	Good manager! Good waitress! I agree with you that most members of the Riigikogu deserve to be the chairman of the necessary committees or a member, if they have already been elected here. But I didn't understand anything about your report. Unfortunately, a member of the Riigikogu, Johannes Kert, left us. But if I know correctly, he was not the chairman of the committee, he was a member of it. We are now talking about voting on the Chairman. Do I remember correctly that Sven Sester was, or is he the chairman? Then it should have been somehow that one is the change of membership and the other is the election of the chairman. It would be interesting to know how this debate took place in the Commission. So, as a member of the Board, you'd be an alternate for the chairman of the committee? Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U979	Thank you, good questioner! When the political groups set up the external delegations, they submit their proposals and they are all taken by a single decision, i.e. they do not take a separate decision on the Chair and the Members of the Commission. In the case of ENPA, however, it is the case where the chairman of the committee is appointed and the chairman of the external delegation organises internal elections. This is the case with ENPA. However, in the case of this draft, the entire delegation shall be decided by a single decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U980	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U981	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Was there a debate in the Commission, or do you have any such list of requirements that this Member of the Commission should meet, or what are the prerequisites that would be needed to be able to work well in that committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U982	Thank you. No, but we expect the political groups to deal with this each within their own group, and each political group will present its own dignified candidates.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U983	Mr Reitelmann, on this item, the members of the Riigikogu have an oral question, the same is true of Mr Breivel, Mrs Helme and those who have put the second question up here. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U984	Thank you very much. Good Imre! In fact, I am very surprised that I have heard that he has not been briefed at the composition of the delegation, that there has been no task, that there is no specific purpose, that there is nothing. Then the question arises as to how you feel and how you feel about whether we need a delegation that has no objectives, no tasks, basically no vision-consequence. Why are we spending money on it, why are we wasting administrative resources on it, why is that necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U985	Thank you, dear colleague Paul. I don't want to agree with you here. On the contrary, I believe that these objectives must be and are [existent]. They are quite well formulated on the Riigikogu website. If you're going to unravel "Job in Foreign Delegations," it's pretty well formulated. And I think they are thorough enough to allow the political groups to make a prudent decision on whom to appoint a delegation. Unfortunately, no further proposals from the EKRE Group at this meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs came about by any other member. I'm sure it would have been discussed if, for example, you had set someone else up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U986	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U987	Yes, thank you! Thank you very much, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Such delegations are proud and quite important in themselves. I ask you this question: did you discuss, or do you have any idea, that you will know in the Commission what the expectations of society are for such an Estonian delegation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U988	Thank you, good questioner! A very legitimate question. I think these expectations are high and rightly high. I myself have been the chairman of the Riigikogu's foreign delegations. I sense the responsibility that delegations have. They must represent the opinion of the Riigikogu as a whole, all the opinions in the state, they cannot speak in foreign delegations or other countries, but they must present the opinion of the Riigikogu as an institution and the opinions spread in Estonia. I think these expectations are high and participation in foreign delegations is very important and a great deal of work for those who participate in them. They represent our country, they are in some ways ambassadors of our country, but from Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U989	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U990	Good manager! I have no doubts about the experience and qualifications of Mart Nut, but if you now compare these skills and experiences between colleagues Sven Sester and Mati Raidma precisely in this delegation, how would you compare both of them in terms of your qualifications?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U991	I think that both have very strong international experience, very experienced, they are suitable for these positions and are very capable of representing our country in this position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U992	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U993	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As we know, each delegation always has a plan to implement something. For example, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation helped implement cooperation between the Member States on defence and security issues, as well as the protection of Estonia's security policy positions and foreign policy interests, such as the preparation of more topical security and defence reports and resolutions, Assembly events and participation in the Committee's work, as well as ensuring the continuity of the Assembly. However, I assume that this Committee on Foreign Affairs also has very specific tasks. I would, of course, like to know more precisely whether, let us say, the agenda of this delegation also includes the promotion of the views of the so-called liberal society and all the other issues that concern this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U994	Thank you, my good colleague. That's a good question. The heads of all the foreign delegations of the Riigikogu must regularly report on their work to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. All the reports in which they have participated and the summaries of their work are available to all members of the Riigikogu in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And the next head of delegation, Mati Raidma, must also begin to report exactly on his work. So it is nicely in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at least twice a year the heads of all delegations will be interrogated and the issues raised in these delegations and what Estonia's views have been there will be discussed at length and in depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U995	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U996	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Imre! There is no doubt that Sven Sester is a dignified colleague of this delegation as well as Mrs Mati Raidma, there is no doubt about that. But did you also mention in the Commission what our national interests or objectives could be in the delegation that these members could or should achieve there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U997	Thank you. Broadly speaking, the aim is to protect Estonia's interests, just as we defend them in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, all in accordance with our political parties and our electorate's expectations. In general, the delegation expresses these views, which are also expressed by the government currently in power. That was the case during the previous government, that is the case now, and that is certainly the case in the future. But the role of the Riigikogu in this is to bring the opinion of the opposition to the table and the delegation is always formed of members of the coalition and opposition, so this balance should be guaranteed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U998	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U999	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! How is the work of the delegation organised and whether the Head of Delegation also receives any remuneration for the management and organisation of the delegation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1000	Thank you, good questioner! Each Head of the External Delegation shall organise the work of his delegation, and no one shall receive any additional fee for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1001	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1002	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We all know the expression 'Parliamentary tourism'. Parliamentary tourism means that onks and aunts travel somewhere with important faces, sit at meetings, drink coffee and drive small talk at receptions. But there really is no result as a result of this parliamentary tourism. I have very serious doubts that, in the context of the changing world order that we see today every day, this Parliamentary Assembly is precisely the place of such parliamentary tourism. Do you agree with me or do you disagree?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1003	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, this is a legitimate question, because it is also presented in the press. Are foreign delegations parliamentary tourism? I believe that this depends very much on the activity of the members of this foreign delegation themselves and on how much they can really defend Estonia's interests in international forums. If there are any members of the delegation who for years do not even open their mouths there, then indeed, good Mart, I agree with you that it should be considered whether such members, who have been appointed from the political groups but do not even open their mouths there for years, are still justified to represent Estonia in the composition of this delegation. But it's just like in the Riigikogu hall there are those who take their work very heartily, devote themselves to it, and there are those who may not make as much effort as others. So people are different. It depends entirely on the person who is a member of the delegation. But I know Mati for years, and I know how he has represented Estonia's interests in other delegations, so I have no doubt that he can do this work in a balanced manner and with regard to all the political parties represented in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1004	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1005	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! There is no doubt that the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, or the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, is a very important institution, and I am sure that today we will also select honourable members there. But thousands of people are watching the sessions of the Riigikogu. We here, you can assume, we know everything this organization is, but others may not know. ] Perhaps you will make a brief overview of what this Assembly is dealing with, which are the main issues. And, of course, all our people are interested in what the achievements of the Estonian delegation have been there, what we have done and how we have defended and stood up for Estonia's interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1006	Thank you, good questioner! You are also a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and you know very well that all the Heads of Delegation are accountable for their work. I am not the leader of any foreign delegation at the moment, so I cannot speak on their behalf, but I am quite sure that Mati Raidma will do so and will certainly do so before Parliament's plenary if you so ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1007	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1008	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! I have two questions. I understand that Oudekki Loone will be replaced and Marko Šorin will be replaced. Did the group have any complaints about Oudekki Loone's activities there that he would be replaced, or would the quality of Marko Šorin's work be better there? And secondly, the same question that Henn Põllamaas asked. What's their plan of work? How many will we have here from the Riigikogu Hall? And a third question, which is also very important, which we must not forget about any international cooperation. Any external communication, making all kinds of delegations and being in international organisations will give away a piece of Estonia's sovereignty. Something we agree on is higher than our own constitution and rules. We are not giving up Estonia's sovereignty with this decision, are we?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1009	Thank you, good questioner, good Martin! Legitimate questions. My personal opinion is that we do not give up this sovereignty, but as far as the participation of delegations in international forums is concerned, the head of delegation will also decide on the basis of the budgetary possibilities of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1010	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1011	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When the previous questioner asked if we would give away a piece of our sovereignty, I would ask if you are at least aware or whether you can tell me which piece of our state budget we spend on participating in this organization.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1012	Thank you, good questioner! I think that, in view of the COVID situation last year, where most delegations could not fly anywhere, these sums were actually all underutilised. We will probably see a detailed overview at the end of the year when the sums are summarised. But certainly [has been] much less than was foreseen in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1013	Good waitress, there's no more questions for you because I really said there's only one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1014	Peter Ernits?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1015	Peter Ernitsa has no other question, one question for everyone. And Peter Ernitsa isn't in the hall either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1016	So thank you to everyone! And I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1017	I am opening negotiations, Mr Helme has asked for the floor on behalf of the EKRE Group. Please! I would point out that only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Please, Mr. Helme! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1018	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I come here to talk about something more than this draft decision. I'm coming here to tell you about what's coming. Undoubtedly, at the time of processing procedural questions, there may have been some insight into the fact that we were about to have some tense workdays. And I need to explain to you a little bit why. The Estonian Conservative People's Party, rememberingly, fought in April from such a world-view point of departure against the police state when we dealt with the Nets draft. We reached a compromise with the coalition, we were most disturbed or the sections that were most concerned about us got out of it. The same can be said of the Emergency Act, although we still consider the necessity of this emergency law to be questionable. And now, of course, in the case of this same draft ABIS, i.e. the biometric database, we have had, I don't know, a month and a half or a little longer discussions and disputes both within the relevant Riigikogu commission and between the political groups of the Riigikogu on the subject of what to do with this bill. The bill, of course, is in front of its beard. This database has been requested by the authorities for a long time. Both Minister of the Interior Mart Helmet and Minister of the Interior Alar Laneman officials were terribly muddled to create this database, and here it must be said that it is clear to everyone: this database was at least sold to our ministers with a lie. There were stories about how IT innovation is, old databases are closed and transferred to new and better data, nothing changes, nothing more, just need to update and update a little bit, as in the IT field. Indeed, it was even sent to the coordination circle, but there must certainly be a clear statement here: in the previous government, this draft did not move forward. As far as he was expelled from the Ministry of the Interior, he did not get any further, because I personally, as a fellow minister, as a member of the government, did not agree, and our group did not agree with that under any circumstances either. So this bill during our government was very clear on the grounds that it was unacceptable to us, even then. Now, in the course of these discussions, we have also proposed to coalition parties, including this week's agenda, that we do not have to obstruct the work of the rest of the Riigikogu. We'll put ABIS on the last draft on Wednesday, process the rest of the bill at a normal pace, and we'll be able to accept the rest of the bill next week before the summer break. It didn't work. That didn't work, this ABIS bill was put on the agenda in the middle of Wednesday. Well, what the hell. Our clear proposal was not to engage in the push-through of ABIS during the spring session, to leave it waiting for the autumn session. They didn't agree to that either. We only have one simple objective: to prevent draft 366 from becoming law. We understand that if the government wants to, it can link one bill to trust and roll it through within the framework of this bill, which is why we have decided to prevent the rest of the work of the Riigikogu as well. For all the drafts. Whether it is a draft decision, a first reading or a second reading for all drafts. We will do all the things that the Rules of Procedure promise us: we will ask questions, we will make speeches, we will take breaks, we will vote. All of them. And not only until we've passed 366,, but from there too. If the coalition has decided that this is the most important draft they want to adopt in the next two weeks, then the coalition must take into account that it comes with pain and pain. And my proposal to dear fellow coalition colleagues is still to turn to the leadership of my group and make it clear to them that there is no need for this pain and effort. If 366 is missed in the spring, then everything else will not be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1019	Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that we are currently discussing the establishment of an Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Jürgen Ligi, is there a wish to speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group about the OSCE?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1020	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I don't want to go along with this disgusting practice that we're having any conversation at any time on any agenda. Of course, I do not mind if, for example, the body of elders gathers and there is a way out of this situation. Martin, if you slow down once, but, well, the lie has legs so long that it can run away from the room, the facts are right: this bill was initiated by Mart Helme on 13 October. The Minister of Finance, Martin Helme, agreed without comment within this month. The ministers of MKM and EKRE agreed on this without comment. There is no sign that this law has been suppressed in any way. Alar Laneman co-ordinated it. He sent it to the second round of coordination in January, according to my records. Minister of Interior Alar Laneman. He told me yesterday when I told him to shut the fuck up. It's his level, it's his professional legacy. When I pointed out that it was not dignified for the Riigikogu to stand up for things that you yourself have initiated, to which you have not criticised, he said to me: "Don't fuck with me! " Alar Laneman, Minister of the Interior, such a man. I thought he was actually a good quiet guy. But you see how... It is conceivable that the political group leaders will gather. But I still need to turn down these facts for the verbatim. Mart Helme initiated, Martin Helme coordinated, business ministers coordinated, and why couldn't the pagan give the Riigikogu the opportunity to vote on it now? What is this great national-conservative idea that a national parliament cannot vote on such a law? Why can't he vote on other laws? This law is meant to fight crime. This is to make the state work more effectively. Is the answer that the EKRE has moved from state to state because it is not in power, towards criminals? Is he afraid that he's somehow gonna stick to the data he's got on him? Or is there a reason somewhere else? It would be really nice if you could tell us that story. As far as I am concerned, the leaders of the political groups may gather, the body of elders may also meet. I'm surprised that such things... In the old days, the body of elders was precisely for cases where the conflict was incomprehensible, the parliament was suppressed. There was no study of who did the number of injections on Tuesdays at 8:00 a.m. The body of elders had the idea of settling relationships. Do it and explain your story! Thank you. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1021	Would Mr. Laneman like a reclining? Mr. Laneman!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1022	Thank you, Mr President. I have a hard choice to make now, but they say the truth is the most important thing. Minister of the Interior Alar Laneman has not spoken to Jürgen Ligi. That's the first lie. I haven't said anything like that to him either. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Secondly...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1023	Ladies and gentlemen, please, however, we are not in the real theater...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1024	Secondly, I believed that what was going on in the men's room of the Riigikogu building would be left there. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But it was brought to the speaker's desk. I am terribly embarrassed that I had to take that word, that is what my good colleague Jürgen is right about, and I told him that. But good Jürgen could have explained the situation. It was extremely embarrassing. But this choice of words comes from the fact that you speak Estonian, the Russian Russian and the dirty mouth speaking a little dirty language. To make sense. When a person starts talking to me in the bathroom, delivering a body member to the urinal in his hand, I find it inappropriate to bring it here to the Riigikogu Hall, and I think it's even more inappropriate. I'm sorry I didn't just walk out. But I really said, "Jurgen, let's talk in another place, it's not the right place. " But after several turns, I failed, and then, unfortunately, I fell to the same level as him and replied. I'm so sorry about that! And I really wish that [information] hadn't come here. But the truth is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1025	Gentlemen Ligi and Laneman, I beg you, if necessary, to explain among yourselves, to each other. What we are talking about here will remain in the history records, the verbatim, and it will certainly reach the people of Estonia through the ether. So I don't think we need to discuss what men do at the urinal. Mr. Ernits, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1026	Yeah. Good manager! Interesting, my colleague Ligi got caught in the sink. I don't know what he was doing there. But the question is, you pointed out after the applause of the members of the Reform Party that we're not in the theater. Is there still a belief in the Reform Party that they're in the theatre?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1027	This is not a procedural question. I have pointed out to all of us that this hall is still for work. Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedural question or just a midterm? 'Cause you can't say you can't say it's possible to say it in the recess procedure of Mart Helmel.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1028	Thank you, Mr President. I was moved by the procedure to ask you what you expressed when the ambassadors of the Estonian Conservative Party applauded. For some reason, you ignored the applause of coalition politicians, didn't pay any attention to it. Please explain what this discrimination is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1029	Mr. Grünthal! Everything the manager says doesn't have to be taken personally. I said that to the entire Riigikogu Chamber. It was about everyone. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1030	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'll say in a reply, first of all, of course, it's never too late to get smarter. And secondly, I say that this bill was also sold to the Minister with a certain lie as IT development, which must facilitate cross-use between different databases. Now, however, a super-data base has grown out of it, which can have very serious consequences for the Estonian state if it gets into the hands of hostile forces. And I would also like to point out that our obstruction on this issue is a reaction to the coalition road roll tactics. Because none of our 75 amendments were taken into account. Not much, they weren't even processed. And also, if the previous government had enough money, we would have found this 15 million without any problem, then the current government, we know, has no money. And this expenditure is more or less the same size as a defensive cut. That is why we are also answering this question. Thirdly, we see here the obvious desire, corruptly, to throw this state budget money into the hands of IT companies involved in coalition parties, and that is why we are opposed to this draft. So we are a group with polyphonic thinking and action. And I think the coalition should appreciate that too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1031	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that we are currently discussing the establishment of an Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. However, the President would like to say a small reminder to Mr Helme: Amendment 11 to the draft 366 has been tabled by the EKRE Group and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. But we'll get to that when we discuss Bill 366. We are now going to the final vote on Bill 398. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Mr. Fieldace, do you have a finger up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1032	Indeed, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1033	On behalf of a party or a political group?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1034	On behalf of the political group, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1035	Thank you! Then there's a ten-minute break. We'll proceed at 4:06 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1036	Honourable Riigikogu! Break's over. We are at the first item on the agenda, 398 OE. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 398. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1037	83 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the draft decision, no one is against and the abstentions are 3. The draft decision has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1038	We can go to the second item on today's agenda. This is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, amending the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia." The rapporteur is Mikhail Lotman, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please! Vice-Chairman. I'm sorry! Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And I can't change that, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1039	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the proposal for a decision of the Riigikogu "Establishment of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia"...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1040	Can you get the microphone a little closer to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1041	...change. The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented a draft. May 31st. The draft provides for the amendment of the Baltic Assembly delegation to be proposed by the Isamaa Group and the Committee on the Environment, the Social Affairs Committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The amendments are as follows: Amend the decision of the Riigikogu of 12 June 2019 "Establishment of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia" as follows: Firstly, to exclude Johannes Kert, Deputy Head of Delegation, and Urmas Espenberg, Marek Jürgenson and Üllar Saaremäe from the delegation. Secondly, appoint Sven Sester as Deputy Head of Delegation. Thirdly, to appoint Yoko Alender, Hele Everaus, Andres Metsoja and Anti Half-Amets as members of the delegation. The Riigikogu Board set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 June 2021. No amendments were tabled. At its meeting on 3 June, the Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions on the draft: Propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to put the draft 399 on the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 8 June and to hold the final vote on the draft. The rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is Mikhail Lotman, Vice-President of the Commission. Decisions have been taken by consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes my performance. I look forward to your meaningful questions on this and other issues. I'm sure it's also a big controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1042	Questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1043	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am not going to ask about the amendments, because I understand that they could not have been tabled only in the Commission, nor in how many readings we have here. But that's my question. I read here that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have created such an interparliamentary association. And the last item on the agenda was, let's say, European. Why such a smaller format? After all, all three countries are also in the European Union. Is it not very misleading to have such information when there are different delegations and different understandings, so we cannot fix a single line in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1044	Thank you, Honourable Tarmo. We did not discuss this issue in the committee because we hoped that each member of the Riigikogu would be informed about these matters, read the relevant documents on the website, where all these very substantive questions have been dealt with and the same meaningful answers can be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1045	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1046	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The three Baltic countries are, of course, friends and associate with each other. The members of our delegation represent our committees, different. Could you give a bit of generalisation or a description of whether such Commission-based meetings and discussions have been effective? And if so, do we have any vivid examples or accomplishments in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1047	Thank you. Just in case, I'm reminding you that I'm not representing myself here, I'm representing the Commission. In fact, I do not even have the right to talk about what has not been discussed in this committee. But the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1048	Jürgen Ligi, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1049	Thank you, Mr President. It is generally good practice in this Chamber not to turn the debate on such items into a story. Now, by looking at this screen and listening to the introduction, I can see that it's going that way. But I have a procedural question. As party chairman, can you make an exception on this point so that you don't turn it into a track? Because, in fact, we are essentially replacing one [here] member of the Riigikogu in the delegation. Maybe you shouldn't be kidding around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1050	Jürgen, you now want to take away the opportunity from your colleagues at first reading to thoroughly examine the draft. You shouldn't do that. Let's continue with the questions. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1051	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I do not agree with Jürgen Ligi here because this is not a question of replacing the honourable John of all of us, but it is still a question of this draft. The draft is the formation of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia. I have a simple question. Members who left Parliament were excluded, but a good friend, Üllar Saaremäe, an Eastern virumaan, was also excluded from the delegation. And Üllar Saaremäe, as far as I know, has been a very good man; I also know him for a very long time and know that he is a great friend of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. He's your penguin now, too. Why was he replaced from this composition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1052	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in the Commission. But I share your high assessment of our colleague Üllar Saaremäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1053	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1054	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'd go back to history a little bit. As we know...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1055	Please speak a little closer to the microphone!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1056	As we know between the two world wars, economic and political cooperation between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania was much closer than it is now, yet it did not spare Estonia or Latvia and Lithuania for the loss of independence. Now my question is: is the fact that our current cooperation is relatively weak a concern for us? And secondly, if so, should we not strengthen this cooperation very strongly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1057	Thank you. This issue, too, a very important and very worrying issue, we have not discussed in the Commission. But the answer to both questions is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1058	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1059	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I look at this new composition of the delegation and there are now exactly two women, two men. Was it some sort of ideological orientation that because the gender quotas are fashionable, it had to happen? Or do you have any idea how this composition developed with this kind of gender division? Was there any mention of this in the Commission, or was it the blind fortune of the gender quota demandrs here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1060	Thank you, Honourable Asker. This was not mentioned in the Commission. In my opinion, gender balance is something that does not need to be regulated with quotas, but if it does work out well, it is a good thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1061	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1062	Good President! Dear waitress, I read in this draft to appoint Yoko Alender, Hele Everaus, Andres Metsoja and Anti Poolamets as members of the delegation, and the explanatory statement also says to appoint Sven Sester as Deputy Head of Delegation. My question: did you also discuss the personal characteristics of these persons in committee, why do they fit in with the composition of the delegation? Or maybe you're so nice and you're taking this great opportunity and you're now saying a few good words about them from this remote control and explaining why Yoko Alender, Hele Everaus, Andres Metsoja and Anti Half Office are a good choice from the point of view of this delegation. [[Something's missing in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1063	I don't think we heard the end. What's out there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1064	Do you want me to answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1065	Wait till we get quiet. Okay. Did you hear the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1066	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1067	Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1068	About the very end of the question [in the meantime], I couldn't finish asking, could I? The waitress might say she heard the question, but I couldn't finish it. May I...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1069	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1070	Or we'll wait till it's... There's a lot of emotion up there for something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1071	But you can't hear it this way. Please return the microphone to Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1072	Thank you. I'm not asking the whole question because I assume the waitress really heard the first end of it before it started to sound. My request is that the esteemed waitress from this remote can say a few good words about them and explain why Yoko Alender, Hele Everaus, Andres Metsoja, Anti Poolam and Sven Sester are a good choice from the very point of view of this delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1073	Thank you, Honourable Asker. This issue was not discussed in the Commission. But you know how these committees are formed. We trust those political groups that are presenting these candidates. For example, we did not discuss the positive qualities of you, Helle-Moonika Helme, and they certainly do. I am convinced that you are as dignified a member of this delegation as everyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1074	Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1075	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to so-called calm down all the members of the Riigikogu who were currently in this Chamber and thought that there was either a bomb or a fire. No, that wasn't it. It was a walking stick of one of our esteemed colleagues in the Reform Party that fell down and started screaming. We managed to eliminate this threat in this Chamber, so we can continue the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1076	Thank you. Let's try to continue the trial. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1077	Yes, thank you for the floor. Dear rapporteur, this is the Assembly of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia. How do you feel about this membership of the Assembly being equal or, more correctly, fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1078	Thank you. I understand the question. This has not been discussed either. The principles of this delegation, the objectives and principles of its formation are all fixed, you can get acquainted with them on our website, and I think they are fair. I'm ruining my own policy. I'm sorry! But I hope that... Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1079	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1080	Thank you very much, manager. Good Mikhail! I do now have such a very fundamental question, which you simply had to discuss in committee when drawing up this delegation. This is also called the Baltic Assembly of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia. And I read very clearly in the explanatory memorandum that this Baltic Assembly has been formed in such a way that there are five committees. If I look in a row, then the one, the first Commission, is not numerically [first], but is basically the Committee on Economics, Energy and Innovation; then there is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture; then there is the Committee on Natural Resources and the Environment, then there is the Committee on Legal and Security and, finally, there is the Committee on Welfare. And it has been said here that the Estonian delegation is formed in such a way that each of the members of our Riigikogu goes to the relevant committee. I am interested in who represents the welfare committee, because we do not have one in the Riigikogu. Who's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1081	Thank you. This is not what we discussed in the Commission. But I'll tell you, just in case, it's up to our delegation to decide who belongs to. And I think that whoever feels best is going to this committee and is going to deal with well-being.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1082	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1083	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm looking at this delegation. There was one member of the Reform Party in the previous delegation, one member of the EKRE Group, then there was one member of the Centre Party Group and one member of the Isamaa Group, plus another Deputy Head of the Delegation, who was from the Isamaa Group, but on the new list I do not see any members of the Centre Party Group. Can you comment on the reason why no members of the Central Party Group have been mentioned here? Or is it in place automatically?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1084	Honourable questioner! I suggest you look at this paper again, then you will see the name Aadu Black, who is not only a member of the Centre Party, but is even the head of this delegation, a dignified leader.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1085	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1086	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! I understand from your brief answers that there was only a formal discussion of names. You didn't get into the subject at all? I wonder what this form of work is going to be and whether you should get the doors open, so you can have physical meetings, or we're going to be stuck in this kind of COVID-time deadlock and some online sessions. Is there any hope that physical meetings will begin in the summer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1087	This may not be the subject of this debate, but it has been decided that, until the end of this session, we will be in Zoom. I'm sorry! Not in Zoom, but in Teams. But I am pleased that colleagues are so interested in the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Fortunately, your party has started to participate there, but unfortunately before, we often had the fact that your party's representatives did not participate at all in the work of the Commission. So I encourage you to participate. Participation in the committee is open to all members of the Riigikogu. Anti, I remember, then you were an active member, and we had good cooperation. And all the questions you are asking here could be asked in committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1088	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1089	Thank you, Mr Helme, Mr President of the sitting. Dear waitress, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mikhail Lotman! As we know, the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia was formed as a consultative and coordinating institution for discussing issues and projects of common interest, with the Baltic Assembly working groups or bodies being a session, a presidium, committees and a secretariat. And I would also like to add here that, as we know, five committees have been set up in the Baltic Assembly: the Committee on Economics, Energy and Innovation; the Committee on Education, Research and Culture; the Committee on Natural Resources and the Environment; the Committee on Legal and Security and the Committee on Welfare. What is the priority and with what objectives will this delegation go to which committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1090	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in the Commission either, but I would continue with the response I gave to my colleague. The work of the Baltic Assembly is very important, but it is not enough. It would certainly be good and in Estonia's interest to intensify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1091	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1092	Good manager! Good waitress! I have one such cremmlological question. If I remember correctly, on the eve of the marriage referendum, a good colleague of Saaremäe put a label on his Facebook account on "I say no as a national." Well, there was my colleague, Ladynskaya, and another colleague who's already gone, Kisler. But I ask you, as a member of the Isamaa Group and vice-chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, whether the replacement of this colleague Saaremäe with Sven Sester is therefore a penalty operation against dissent and such an adversarial excruciating, politely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1093	Thank you for that question. We did not discuss this in the committee, but in the group we thought that since the death penalty would perhaps be too high a penalty, we would at least remove it from the delegation. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1094	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1095	Thank you. Honourable performer! We have recently read worrying headlines here in the media and, as we get a little deeper into the content, we have learned that Lithuania has taken the lead in foreign policy from among the Baltic countries. What's your assessment? Did the Commission, to any extent, raise this issue in relation to the possible common foreign policy of the three Baltic States? Could the changes that are now taking place in the composition of the Commission contribute to Estonia's taking a more important role in foreign policy issues in the Baltic Assembly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1096	Thank you. This was not discussed in the Commission either, but I am happy to respond. If we have this kind of pretty much free microphone, I'll do it in more than one sentence. First or second, the formation of this delegation has nothing to do with new or old trends in Estonian foreign policy. However, I completely agree that Estonia has given up its leading role in foreign policy. This is partly related to the events in Belarus and, for understandable geopolitical reasons, it concerns Lithuania above all. But I also recall that after the large-scale forgery of Lukashenka's election, Estonia was the first to present a corresponding note, and Lithuania was the second in line. But what I'm trying to say is that this isn't some competition that says something first. Estonian foreign policy currently holds a more modest but correct line. If there is anything to complain about, it is not the substantive questions, but the fact that the reaction is too slow and perhaps too modest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1097	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1098	Thank you, Mr President. A very honored waitress! I am very sorry, because you have answered my question in part already and talked about the things that interest me. But this is how I understand that there has now been a change in the composition of the delegation and fresh force will be dealt with. Can you describe what the purpose is and these frames that now we're going to do these things? I suspect, of course, that I already know the answer, but I'll ask you again just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1099	I'm sorry! I didn't hear the question. [[Alar Laneman is talking about the hall.]] Yeah. Thank you. Well, I actually already answered, those answers are fixed. But, of course, the delegation and the Baltic Assembly will also respond to the current policy. For example, we discussed the complex of problems with Belarus, which is not just one problem, but a whole series of them. Since I do not belong to this delegation, I do not know exactly what is there, but I am sure that we, and especially Lithuanian colleagues, are holding their hand at the pulse of events.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1100	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Mikhail! I myself will now try to take advantage of this obstruction situation in order to raise as important issues as possible. The Commander of the Defence Forces has announced a regional defence doctrine, i.e. we could organise joint defences with the three Baltic States. It's a matter of fact, do we now have enough money for this at 2.02 percent of our defense costs? But it is clear that we cannot do this alone, then Latvia and Lithuania should come with it. Has the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this issue of regional protection doctrine? And have any instructions been given to a member of the Security Committee? Has this issue ever been addressed, or should it be addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1102	Yes, thank you! I think that this issue should certainly be addressed. Now I'm going out of my frame. It has not been discussed yet, but at the same time I think it will be discussed, because it is a really important matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1103	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Were the members of the delegation themselves present at the Commission when the decision was taken, and did they give their consent to participate in the composition of the delegation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1105	Thank you. These members gave their consent when the political groups discussed it. I hope that the members of your group also agreed and that no one will be involved in this delegation by force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1106	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I am quite often surprised at how superficial we are in many things, such as the appointment of members to the institutions today, both on this point and on the previous one. We are talking about who we call, which political party they come from and what position they will take, but what these institutions and organisations are all about is, what their goals are, whether they have justified themselves and whether Estonian delegations have stood there sufficiently or very well and commendably for Estonia's interests. Do you think, good waitress, that such a substantive debate could still be much more relevant to all such issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1108	Thank you. Yeah, I'm sure you could. Henn, I encourage you to participate and raise these questions because you are a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Then we'll discuss them. It was really a formal decision right now. The political groups did. Were there any votes against? There were no votes against, we trust the political groups. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1109	Thank you. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Could you, in a few words, open up the benefits and benefits that we can get back from the members of the Assembly, for example, here in the work of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1111	Thank you. Unfortunately, this cannot be discussed in the Commission. I think it's useful. But like I said, the benefits could be much greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1112	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. Thank you very much. We can go to the negotiations. Representatives from all political groups can take the floor during the negotiations. First, Henn Põlluaas wants to give a talk about the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1113	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that today we are discussing the subject of the Baltic Assembly and the appointment and confirmation of new delegates. I believe that all the persons proposed by our Riigikogu are very hard-working, active and undoubtedly also dignified members of this organisation, which has a long history and the importance of which no one of us is questioning. I looked at the interest that we have been told in the public media about the Baltic Assembly, and to tell the truth, there is not much there. There is a separate article on this in Wikipedia, but it has been last updated in 2011, so already ten years ago. It includes our delegation at the time, its members, but also everything that has taken place in the last ten years, for example, now the Estonian Presidency in the Baltic Assembly, where, as the head of our delegation, Mr Aadu Must, who is very honored not only here in Estonia but also in Latvia and Lithuania, has very much carried out this work. I hope that Aadu, in turn, will speak here and tell us a little more about this work. However, since the broader knowledge of the Baltic Assembly, its work and history, unfortunately, is small in our society, I take the opportunity that thousands of people are looking at our Riigikogu sessions, and I give a brief overview of what we are doing there. The Baltic Assembly is a consultative cooperation organisation between the parliaments of the three Baltic States, which discusses issues of mutual interest. Estonia is represented in the Assembly by a delegation of 12 members of the Riigikogu. The task of our Riigikogu delegation is to express Estonia's views in the Presidium of the Baltic Assembly and in foreign forums. As I said, the delegation is composed of 12 members and its formation takes into account the relationship between political forces in Parliament and the need to represent the permanent committees of the Riigikogu. So by the best of recognition, we always try to fill these places. The official languages of the Baltic Assembly are Estonian, Lithuanian and Latvian, and other languages are used by agreement of delegations. And here, I would say, we have exactly achieved a great deal of progress under the leadership of Estonia, because for years our ladies and gentlemen from both Latvia and Lithuania tended to use Russian as an official language or, in fact, as an informal language. It has now been replaced with Estonian, Lithuanian and Latvian and with English mainly. Baltic Assembly... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1114	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1115	The Baltic Assembly was founded in 1991 in Tallinn on 8 November, so this year we are celebrating its 30th anniversary. This is indeed an important moment to mark and it must be celebrated with dignity. As I said, there are always issues of mutual interest being discussed and all positions are presented to the parliaments and governments of the Baltic States and to international and regional organisations in the form of appeals, proposals and recommendations. The Baltic Assembly has cooperation agreements with a large number of organisations, such as the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Benelux Parliament, the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly, etc., with other regional parliamentary organisations. For example, at the beginning of this year, when there was a large meeting of the Baltic Assembly here in Tallinn, which unfortunately took place via video, the President of the GUAM also appeared here. This caused a lot of confusion and resentment because our Baltic Assembly was trying to bring in really suspicious political speculations and actions, but it was beautifully rejected. All kinds of committees, seminars and conferences are held in the Baltic Assembly and there are a number of all kinds of committees. Here I must also mention Estonia's initiative, there is the Committee on Security and Defence; the Committee on Economics, Energy and Innovation; the Committee on Natural Resources and the Environment; the Committee on Good Life; the Committee on Education, Research and Culture. While it used to be the practice that Latvia and Lithuania simply sent representatives of their Parliament who did not have any contact with specific areas, our proposal changed this practice and all these committees were made up of representatives of parliaments, who in their national Parliament are also exactly the chairmen of the respective committee. It ensures that, let's say, the ability to work and its adequacy, that these committees are not just a chat room, they really have a result. Unfortunately, I'm running out of time. I would actually like to talk about the Baltic Assembly and what has been done there and what is planned, but unfortunately there is no more time. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I am now calling on Mr Aadu Black, who will continue as chairman of the delegation...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1116	It's already written, Henn. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1117	...and who can talk about it even further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1118	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1119	Ladies and gentlemen, Honestly, I'm not a tool for obstruction, but a little provocative, I guess. My first point was that I propose Question Time for the EKRE Group, because indeed, some groups know what the Baltic Assembly is doing, some do not know. After Mr Espenberg's departure from the delegation, not because we were expelled or anything else, there was indeed a gap, but I hope that it has now been filled, the EKRE has been represented again, and through the committees we have been doing quite well in terms of information. What also alleviated the need for me to perform was, in fact, that the esteemed Henn Põljaas still talked about a number of things quite normally and beautifully, what is really happening there. First of all, there's one thing in the main report that's like being debated. As the protocol provides, Mr Lotman had to say that this was not discussed in the Commission. And I got a fang, because we discussed it, but not on this point. Because the Baltic Assembly really does report all the time and all the problems that arise in the Baltic Assembly are coordinated and synchronised with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There were also questions about how this was still being set up and at committee level, etc. Seven or eight years ago there was a situation where the Baltic Assembly was still on the wave of the singing revolution and sang. Then came the proposal of the Estonian delegation, we will make committees-based cooperation structures. And since then, experts say that amazing- Amazing, the development of the legislation of the three Baltic States has seen some similar trends. Maybe it's a favor to the Baltic Assembly, but maybe the world is developing and spinning just like this new development. Really, there's been a variety of suggestions, and I'm not talking about them. It has already been said how we work together with the Minister of Nordiska, Benelux and other partner organisations. I dare say to you that I am pleased that the assessments that have come to the Estonian delegation have been very sympathetic. And not all of this is really in the paper or visible, but there are very high and positive recognitions from partners, including the Eastern Partnership programme. In the sense that we have sometimes had to translate not only the totalitarian world languages or the lingua franca to Europe, which has been used there because we have a shorter wire, but we have been able to explain the mentality and that: do not send money to the Belarusian bank to the democrats, because Lukashenko pays an extra fee to OMON from it. This is difficult to understand in some European rule of law. The Baltic Assembly's quite powerful course of action was mentioned. It was on the initiative of Johannes Kerd that the Estonian delegation brought national defence cooperation to a new level, and it was still very strong. There are nuclear problems where Lithuania thanks us for the many initiatives that have led to the control of Astravets. No details. Finally. Seven or eight years ago, when the Estonian firefighters looked at the border that the house was burning across the border from Latvia, they said: "It is nice to burn. " Now they're going over and erasing it. And ambulances, too. Let's put it this way: if you need to talk about the delegation today, about its completion, and this is the task of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and if anyone really cares about the Baltic Assembly, then call on the group. You had so many interesting questions, and we'll find some interesting solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1120	Thank you very much, Aadu. We have a procedural question from Peter Ernitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1121	Good manager! When the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and the head of the delegation of the Baltic Assembly went to the chair and said that he was not a supporter of the obstruction, my sharp ear heard that a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, said that he was actually a useful idiot. My question to the President: is this normal and normal behaviour towards a colleague?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1122	This certainly is not in line with the good conduct of a member of the Riigikogu. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1123	Thank you. I know the best practices of a member of the Riigikogu and have also shaped them. A little joke is always part of good practice, and a "useful idiot" is not a word of scorn. In this context, he was pure humor, but it's a political term, it's not a medical term. I joked about the political term Aadu Black on a slightly humorous introduction, didn't insult him, and he knows it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1124	Jürgen, the joke is when others laugh. And the fact that you know good manners hasn't stopped you from ignoring them. Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1125	Well, on this note, I have to make it clear that the word "dumbass" actually comes from the old Greek word idios, who walks by himself, i.e. is a little weird, maybe doesn't get along very well with others. So I agree: it is not a medical term, it is rather such a social omen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1126	Kalle Grünthal, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1127	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased that jokes are allowed in this hall. That's a very good sign. Well, I'm gonna have a little fun. I remember that moment when Jürgen was going public at Ligi's sink, and when he came to Kuma's radio, Andres Põllu asked him what you were doing there, he said he was fixing his bike pants. I revisited that movie clip that had accidentally leaked into the Internet, and then it turned out there were no tracks. I don't know, maybe the braces were ahead. But I guess that's a joke.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1128	Yeah, well, that wasn't a procedure. Let's try to move towards a vote, but before that, a procedural one, Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1129	Thank you, President-in-Office. I still have a serious procedural question. When the previous President Hanno Pevkur, who belongs to the Reform Party, remarked to the Riigikogu Chamber that clap was not allowed, I just had a hypothetical question. He made a comment when we applauded, but he did not comment when reform parties applauded. I just have this hypothetical question. Now that you're in charge there, and if, for example, we were clapping at Jürgen Ligi's joke right now, would you not have called us to order or, let's say, leading an objective hearing, would you have done that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1130	For example, I didn't know you couldn't clap. I guess it's the head of the meeting's discretion to decide whether or not it's okay. But no doubt, if you can't, nobody can, and if I may, everyone can. Jürgen Ligi's word again. Procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1131	It's just historical stuff about clapping, really ugly. Here the Supreme Council has worked in such a way that every decision [was applauded], so I fully understand the manager, who makes a comment on this exaggeration. But I have a procedural proposal for you: don't let your partymates just talk and slander. What Kalle Grünthal put out of his mouth was a lie. But it is not your place to let this Riigikogu be like this. Once upon a time, he was a clapping place for predetermined decisions, now he's just a chatter place for your party. Check it out. It's out of line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1132	I'll check it out. And I have this kind of rhetorical question, you don't have to answer, Jürgen, that when you opened up this theme here, whether you were useful or harmful. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1133	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have such a procedural proposal. I see it's gotten pretty fun in here, and we want to have some fun in here. In fact, maybe it's more reasonable to take a little manager break, about 20 minutes. We're gonna go out and make jokes, figure out what an idiot means, etc. And then we'd come back in 20 minutes, we'd have calmed down and started voting. I think that's a pretty good suggestion. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1134	It's early. Peter Ernitsa has a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1135	Yeah, I have a procedural question. My colleague Jürgen Ligi said that a useful idiot is a joke, but if I tell Jürgen he's just an idiot or a useless idiot, is that a joke?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1136	I gotta tell you again, there's a joke when others laugh. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1137	Thank you. Here Mr Ligi gave us a small history lesson and said that the Supreme Council applauded and that was natural at the time, no comments were made, just as Mr Pevkur did today when the Reform Party applauded. Is there any chance that reform parties still live in the paradigm of the High Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1138	This, of course, was not a procedural question. This requires an assessment, but I would like to avoid it, I would try to chair the meeting as impartially as possible. But let's all think about it. Kalle Grünthal, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1139	Thank you. Since Jürgen Ligi here just used the expression that Kalle Grünthal is talking something out of his mouth, I mean, I haven't said anything, but that's his idea of the matter, I have to remind Jürgen that on Kuma's radio you said that Grünthal's beating crazy. I even agree with that, Jürgen, let me beat the shit out of you. But what are you beating up at the fucking sink?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1140	Please, let's not go to this. George Jaanson, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1141	Yeah, I do have a procedure. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In the context of the last ten questions, I would ask the President to remind the Chamber or to read what is written in the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, and also to wonder whether he or she is currently chairing the sitting or what he or she is doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1142	I guess we've had a long discussion here about whether the procedural questions are really procedural or not. And it's pretty clear that the people who put up a procedural question, I don't see what they're asking or saying. But I would remind my fellow Members that procedural questions concern the organisation of a meeting or the procedure. Paul Woodland, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1143	Thank you very much, Mr President. I still have this proposal again. We're upset around here, and we're saying pleasantly unpleasant things to each other and vice versa. Maybe we could take a 30-minute break, then we could say it all, then we'd come back, we'd have calmed down, and we could go on very constructively. That's the suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1144	Thank you. I'm not taking a break right now. Helle-Moonika Helme has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1145	Yeah, I've got this... I think it's still quite procedural. If there are always complaints that maybe some questions are not procedural and some are, then perhaps a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi... Well, we know we're all entitled to free expression, but I can see very clearly right now that this whole sequence started anyway because a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, came here and threw the ball in the air. Now we're all trying to catch it like this without clapping. I just have this kind of procedural remark, but you can also consider it a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1146	I now have a question for Jürgen Ligi. Does the fact that there is no procedural sign up now mean that you would like to speak on the draft on behalf of the Reform Party Group for two minutes on the ground? Or? Please! Jürgen Ligi's word. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1147	Yes, I think the group will join me. It is actually the duty of the President to restrain the members of the Riigikogu, especially if they are his party companions, and to curb their fantasies below their belt. They shouldn't make it, but they've come to this hall for the second time. And second, of course, not to let that kind of talk fly. It doesn't matter that the EKRE doesn't have a sense of humor, but Aadu Black has it, and he knows exactly that "useful idiot" is a political term. That's my answer to his little memoir. This is not a debate about whether or not you are laughing. Aadu Black smiling nicely. And let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1148	But I can't stop, there are more procedures. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1149	Yeah, really, so important that when you say a useful idiot about a colleague, he understands and smiles. But the question is, if Mr Ligi, for example, said a useful idiot about the President of the Riigikogu, Mr Jüri Ratas of the Aadu Black Party, would Jüri Ratas laugh.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1150	I can't answer who laughs or doesn't laugh, but I still think it wasn't actually quite the correct address to a colleague. I call on colleagues to be respectful of each other. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1151	Thank you. Only recently did we address the previous item on the agenda, and when Jürgen Ligi went to speak on behalf of the remote group, his first words were... I do not remember literally now, but in any case he began to chastise others that the group's speech must be relevant rather than just another subject. He has now also asked for the floor on behalf of the group on this item. And what did we hear there? Absolutely unrelated talk. Perhaps it is somehow possible for our good colleagues to do something because they have a long Riigikogu practice behind their backs to do some sort of assisting lesson on how to behave. Throwing something on the others isn't nice enough to do the same thing and worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1152	Thank you. Yes, I believe that colleagues will take this note into account. And that, of course, also reflects the attitude of the Reform Party to the draft decision 399. But now the negotiations are over and we can go to the vote. No amendments were tabled to this draft, so we do not have to vote on it, and the commission of directors has proposed a final vote of 399. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1153	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I have a ten-minute break to propose before we vote on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1154	Ten minutes break. Dear Riigikogu, the commission has proposed a final vote of 399 on the draft. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1155	There are 79 ambassadors in favour of the draft, no votes against, 3 abstentions. Draft decision 399 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1156	We can move on to our agenda. Today's third item is the second reading of draft law 345 amending the law on atmospheric air protection and state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1157	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! After an in-depth debate on the composition of delegations, I look forward, of course, to the same passionate debate on the air protection law. This is a draft that went through first reading in this Parliament this year, namely on 6 April, and since then the Commission has dealt with it at three meetings of the Commission. Reminder: this is a draft specifying the rules of the new emission trading period in which this EU emissions trading system works in the new period, how units are calculated, for which they can be used, etc. These 'new period' changes have actually been processed in this Parliament in 2019, if I am not mistaken. Now that a number of implementing regulations have arrived from the European Commission, we need to clarify this legal order. These clarifications are predominantly technical in nature. Amendments to this draft were received by one of the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, i.e. I. No further amendments were received from the political groups and members of the Riigikogu, but several interest groups appeared on the Commission's radar, which for one reason or another were dissatisfied with the changes made. The Commission listened to their concerns and sought solutions to them. I'll tell you a little bit more about that. In total, you have four..., no, six amendments, five and six of which are technical, technical, and four are slightly more substantive. I guess I'll start with mine, because that is really the best amendment to support today. The question is that, in accordance with the directive's regulation, at least 50% of the revenues from the emissions trade that the state receives must be used to meet its climate objectives. I have made this proposal and the Social Democrats have done so before, also in the form of a bill, that, given the acute nature of the climate crisis and the extent to which we really need to invest in this area, we should invest 100% of the revenue from these climate units in order to achieve the climate goals. At the moment, 50% is just going to go to the budget for revenue, patching up budget holes. We could spend it, invest only in the interests and benefits of climate objectives. This amendment was not supported by the Ministry of Finance. It is not surprising, of course, that they have always believed that revenue and expenditure should not be tied, that there is as much flexibility as possible, that the budget money can be increased more easily and that the budgetary process will also go smoothly. That is understandable from their point of view. I argued, again, that there are some very important areas of priority for the country, where it makes sense to link revenue. In social security, for example, we have reached the point that we want the health insurance system, for example, to be sustainable, consistent and have its own resources, for which the government cannot decide each year, with its so-called discretionary decision, that we take a little from the health insurance fund and put the roads into construction. Climate objectives could be the same as its emissions trading revenues. Mr Metsoja asked whether this emission trade money, this source of income, could be used to pay contributions to the so-called plastic tax or plastic allocation, which come to the Estonian state because we have poor recycling levels. Mrs Lahtmets from the Ministry of Finance has justified that this is not a real tax, and that is a good thing. That amendment was then voted and supported by the author of the amendment, i.e. Mr Metsoja and everyone else opposed it. The rest were 'non-formal amendments', opinions. We have been approached by the Electricity Industry Association - these are our big electricity producers from Ida-Virumaa and wanted to paw on the Modernisation Fund. Indeed, this modernisation fund is an opportunity to receive additional units for the modernisation of energy systems. In the first version, in the law in force today, it is possible to apply for funding from the Modernisation Fund for individual projects, businesses can come, they can apply for some kind of individual project money. This draft now abandons this option, and the modernisation fund will no longer be able to fund businesses for individual projects. This modernisation fund will be combined with global climate action at government level within the framework of the country's budgetary strategy and will then be exploited. For example, we imagine that this modernisation fund could be part of a programme for renovating apartment buildings, such a programme being approved by the state, and the money going there. They, of course or not, obviously, wanted them to have the opportunity to get their own money from this modernisation fund. The Ministry of Finance argued that this was not a good idea, because the implementing regulations that have come in mean that a separate authorisation by the European Investment Bank for these commercial projects must be sought for each individual case. The money is so low that the state will spend it itself, it will not give it to anyone. Well, it seemed sympathetic and no one in the Commission thought that this position should be changed. But then, at the last moment, Mr Eldermann arrived before the Commission. Mr. Eldermann is from the Viru Chemistry Group, but he has some kind of hat, another hat, he represents the chemical industry union. And he had a concern that what would happen in the new period with units, a relatively technical question of the date by which the free credits would be transferred to the polluters for whom the free units were intended. Oil producers have a certain number of these free units. This may be the case if, in time, the European Commission has not carried out a certain inventory on these free credits, they do not receive these free credits for the right moment and, as a result, serious cash-flow holes in tens of millions of euros. They will receive these units afterwards, but this hole can have a devastating effect on their economic activity. Members of the Commission, I could say, expressed surprise that such a problem has arisen during the process of dealing with such a draft if it really has such a great impact. At the beginning, the Ministry did not want to acknowledge these concerns, but the Commission nevertheless encouraged the Ministry and the Chemical Association to seek a reasonable agreement and consensus in this situation. The next time, the Ministry of the Environment arrived at a proposal for improvement that had been agreed with the chemical industry and which really solves this financial bloated concern for them. This is Amendment 3 to the table of your amendments. Since there were several sessions, I was a bit of a pantry here, but, by memory, everyone was in favour of this amendment, it was considered quite good. There was some technoga there, but it doesn't matter that much anymore. So the Commission decided to send the draft to second reading and proposed that the second reading be closed today and, if the second reading is completed, to go to third reading next week. That is how we decided in a consensual way. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1158	Thank you. There are really questions. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1159	Thank you. Good waitress, there is no doubt that your proposals are the best in this area. No one has any doubts about that. But my question is that in this law of amendment there is the end of the sentence of § 179 (1): "... and Regulation (EU) 2018/842 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the obligation for Member States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 2021 to 2030..." etc. My question to you comes from here. Is that fair to the Member States? How would you appreciate that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1160	Yes, I did not really discuss the specific section you read. I'm very glad you've broken into the details of this bill so deeply. Indeed, this concerns the area of shared obligations in the European Union's emissions reduction system. Perhaps, while the draft generally concerns the European emissions trading system, the quota trading system, as it is called, one piece at the end is indeed outside this ETS, the emissions trading system and a completely different area of European environmental policy. To this end, an area with transport, agriculture, waste management and small energy is divided into a commitment. There are really changes of a purely technical nature and, therefore, these are the references you read out here. This really sounds very awful and bureaucratic, these technical references to the various implementing regulations that have come in this context. So there's no change in substance. But is that fair? Well, what's fair is an eternity question, I can learn to tell you as a philosopher. I am happy to discuss this issue with you at length, but not within the framework of this bill. I think it's getting a little out of the scope right now. But it is true that it is fair or not, but Estonia has concluded these agreements as part of the European Union. And in these areas, too, we are facing a rather ambitious objective of reducing emissions by 13% in the area of shared responsibility by 2030. That is what we must all work together for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1161	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1162	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The link between CO2 and human activity is such a quite religious issue. Some say no, others say yes. There have also been several outstanding Estonian academics among the denies, such as Anto Raukas and Endel Lippmaa. Today, we've actually made a trade that we may not even have to buy and sell. My question is a bit broader: is the claim of man-made warming not linked to this big global CO2 business?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1163	No, I do not agree with the view that this is a religious issue. This is a natural science issue. Undoubtedly, there are few people who can cover this natural science corps, and there are no doubt also scientists who disagree with one piece or another of this corps. But it is close to consensus that anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions since the industrial revolution have now heated the global climate by degrees or even more. This will continue and have catastrophic results for both wildlife and human activities, including Estonia's national goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1164	Before we can get on with the questions, Jürgen Ligil will have a procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1165	I'm sorry! It's my finger. I don't have a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1166	You wanted a regular question? Okay, then it's not. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Evgeny! My question concerns your amendment, which is here under Table 4. Why do you think the coalition rejected your good proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1168	Thank you. Well, the government naturally wants... This flexibility, of course, referred to by the Ministry of Finance, fits well with the government, so that money can be redeployed for political needs in order to do what is considered a political priority. It is true that, when the Reform Party was in opposition, they took a much more positive view of this amendment, both in the Commission and in this Chamber, when they now do so as a government department. It is true that Mr Ligi and Mr Kranich and some others have also been princely in opposition. It is true that such a change of seat in terms of position has taken place in relation to this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1169	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1170	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am asking about your amendment, which was rejected by the commission. What could have been the reason the government didn't support this proposal? Do you think that the government does not understand the seriousness of the climate crisis that you have highlighted, or does the government have a different view of you in terms of footprints? Or maybe the question is that they simply do not have the capacity to manage the state's economy and finances, because to find money they have gone down the road of savings and cuts at the expense of children's interest education, defence spending, our symbols, such as the Defence Forces and the PPA orchestra? Perhaps, therefore, they have the need to use the rest of the emissions trade to cover general budgetary needs and maybe that is why they could not take account of your amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1171	Yeah, I think so. So he is that he really wanted to spend this money elsewhere. But surprisingly, although half of this money goes elsewhere, it is not small money, you see, there was no money available for children's activities or orchestras. In this sense, it's quite incredible that this has happened. But let's just say that I passed on the arguments of the Treasury Department. It was also the only substantive argument that the minimum is set and that the rest of the wise government can make these decisions. A good servant of the Ministry of Finance said, I quote: "The greater the proportion of public budget resources is linked to compulsory percentages, the less flexible it is possible to react according to the situation. " So the Ministry wants to respond flexibly to the situation. Which one, exactly, didn't open it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1172	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1173	Good manager! Good Evgeny! You've been one of the runners for Ida-Viru County all along. You have also, let's say, been a champion of this climate policy, such a green climate policy, certainly more than I have. In my time, I have stood more for these pollution funds to fall into the hands of the municipalities and for them to be able to operate with them and satisfy their needs. Today it has reached such a low level that there is nothing left to support its people. If we now put 50% of the climate to improvement and we go on this path, there is practically no way to level these things out through the budget. I can't tell you why you think it's impossible to manage correctly through the budget...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1174	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1175	...to do these things anyway. Why are you so pretentious about fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1176	Yeah, this trial delay job isn't an easy job, I agree. But indeed, I also very much agree that Ida-Virumaa should receive more of the various charges that have been received from pollution produced there. But with regard to this in particular, I will give a concrete example in relation to Ida-Virumaa. We now have a question because the price of CO2 has risen to record levels. Look at the surprise, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden! In fact, experts knew this five to ten years in advance. The only ones who tried to put on the valves are the same types of Eesti Energia who said that don't worry, everything will be fine. As a result, adequate decisions on, for example, Narva heating have not been taken. Now we are in a situation where it is very expensive to use oil shale for heating, and not only is it urgent to ride through the subsidization of mass burning of wood by the government, which is planned for next week, but the request to increase the price of heating will also begin to go to the Competition Authority. But actually, from the same emissions trade money, it would have been possible to start a long time ago and should have started a project for the construction of an innovative modern boiler house for heating Narva, and it would have been possible to do so. But this money, you see, because it's only 50%, has gone somewhere to patch the asphalt hole. Also undoubtedly necessary, undoubtedly, but probably necessary. But these important investments have not been made, and now we're laying hands: oh, what we're doing, the price of heat in Narva is rising, there's nothing else left. The state must not put itself in this situation! It is important to be able to foresee things that are predictable and predictable by experts. And so, in a forward-looking way. Given the acute nature of the climate crisis, we will be tightening up our 2030 targets. On 14 July, the European Commission will come up with new proposals to strengthen their 2030 targets. We must have this readiness and also this financial buffer, of course, to move faster there, not so that at one point in 2029 we discover ourselves again in a position that, oh, you see, all the money went somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1177	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1178	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We have discussed with you several times in our time how much of the money for selling the CO2 quota should go to meet the climate goals in Estonia, which is quite a price tag. You have been one of the greatest leaders on the subject. It is also true that one of the coalition partners today was quite on the same boat as you, I have experienced it on my own. But I'm asking you. I am sure you have also discussed with the current Minister for the Environment, which are the messages that today are the reason why you cannot put more than 50% and what such a rebirth is about. Yeah, the change of seat often changes your mind, but what's the real point of these old followers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1179	I can't speak for them. I can talk about what happened in the Commission, about the views expressed there. No further arguments were put forward. I guess colleagues can be asked here and, of course, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, you can also address the Minister for the Environment and ask for explanations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1180	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1181	Good lovely Evgeny! I don't know what pisses you off as a philosopher. But as a lawyer, it really freaks me out when the law is being messed up, just as people can say, it's so bad that the pig doesn't bite. Let's just say it's a matter of legal language. Laws have to be made for people. These laws that are made for lawyers are bad laws. The law must be understood by man. If the law is made so that a lawyer can only interpret, then it's a bad law. I now read the same draft 345, which states that paragraph 5 (2) of § [1233] 5 is amended and worded as follows: the results presented must be in accordance with Commission Implementing Regulation 2018/2066 concerning a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1182	You can't count it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1183	... monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC and amending Commission Regulation No 601/2012, etc., etc. Is it possible to understand that? Can any reasonable wording be proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1184	I will continue: "amending Commission Regulation (EU) No 601/2012 (OJ L 334, 31.12.2018, p. 1 to 93) and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/2067 on data verification and accreditation of verifiers pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 334, 31.12.2018, p. 94 to 134). " No, it cannot be understood, but it has not been found, neither in this draft nor in many other humane ways, to transpose European law. It's really a wider concern, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1185	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1186	Thank you. Let me ask you a simple question. I'm interested in the coordination process. What were the proposals made during the coordination process? Were there any good proposals that the Commission did not take into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1187	Thank you. In the first reading, I do not have this material with me at the moment, there is also the coordination table that came from the government. I don't think I'm talking about memory right now. In general, it seemed to go relatively cooperatively. That is why I am saying that there were amendments that were mostly taken into account. But indeed, there they arose before the second reading. It turned out that some important issues had not been dealt with completely, and we then addressed them in the Commission. Apart from those mentioned, which I said, we rejected the proposal of the Electricity Industry Association so that they could directly access the Modernisation Fund. To the Chemical Industry Association proposal, in order to technically implement this unit thing differently in time, we found a way to meet it. No further proposals were made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1188	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1189	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! How much money are we talking about here on your proposal, and where exactly does this money go?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1190	Where's the money going? At present, half of the money goes to meet the climate targets, and the directive needs to be adopted, which gives more details on what these areas are. As always at European level, everything is relatively clearly regulated. The other half is just fiscal revenue, you can do anything with it. With our proposal, all this would go to meet the climate goals. We're talking big money. This will, of course, depend on the price of the quota, but from a decade's perspective, we are talking about half a billion euros. This is currently going beyond climate targets to cover normal costs, but it could actually be an additional contribution to the environment. However, if CO2 prices rise, for example, from the current EUR 50, which is already very high, historically high, such as an increase of 70, 80, maybe EUR 100 per tonne, that is, of course, what will multiply the revenue of the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1191	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1192	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I think you're one of the ambassadors who's gone relatively deep on this subject. I don't doubt it at all. After all, you have also proposed amendments to this law here, and you have also indicated that, for example, the "Principles of Climate Policy 2050" endorsed by the state states states that by 2050, Estonia's greenhouse gas emissions will have to decrease by 80% compared to 1990. Your thoroughness is also shown by the fact that you are not only referring here now to the 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050', but you have also individually compared it with the Paris climate agreement in its collection, and you have come to the view that the global climate crisis has become more serious. Could you give a little more details on the content of the fact on which you have tabled your amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1193	I thank you for this unique opportunity to speak widely about global climate policy. But as a Commission waitress, I remain within these limits that the 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050' confirmed by the Riigikogu for this amendment envisages an 80% reduction in emissions compared to 1990. But in the meantime, the European Union has reached an agreement to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, so that the fundamentals of the CAP, or climate policy, will also be reviewed, ambition will rise. The ambition for 2030 at EU level has also increased compared to earlier times. As I said, on 14 July, the European Commission's powerful climate package "Fit for 55" - a package of steps to bring down to 55% - is expected. As a result, it is undoubtedly important for Estonia to contribute more to the implementation of both the Paris climate agreement and the European Union agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1194	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1195	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I am concerned that you are still putting a bomb on your constituents in Ida-Viru County, figuratively speaking, that there is going to be a massive wave of unemployment. Let me give you an example from Lääne-Virumaa. In Kunda, over 200 people flew to the street from Kunda's cement industry. Instead, the material will be carried over from Sweden. Such a wave of redundancies awaits the whole of Ida-Viru County. I don't see any way that these sums can keep alive the big company that gets unemployed. I heard that the Chemical Industry Association had a proposal to postpone the deadline. Maybe you'll be more specific about what they were doing. To reduce these negative effects?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1196	Well, I'm not gonna get into a wider discussion on this one again. I think that a timely and forward-looking adjustment to the climate policy and climatic effects of the respective investment programmes and support programmes in Ida-Virumaa is more appropriate than closing your eyes to reality and then discovering at one point that, oh, actually, all of a sudden all of a sudden came to an end and people are on the street. I believe that in the context of the oil shale industry, we should really and seriously address this transition plan as a whole society. What is now being proposed, frankly, is certainly not an adequate solution to the social and economic issues that arise, that we are simply spreading money to existing companies, and then we think that we have actually made a transition with it. This requires an undoubtedly much more systematic action. As far as the specific issue of the chemical industry association is concerned, their concerns are easily difficult to explain, since the root cause is of a very technical nature. By a certain date, companies receiving free quota, or even those participating in the emissions trading system, have an obligation to pay for those units that they have produced pollution. Some companies, such as the oil shale industry, but also the cement industry you mentioned, will receive free credits as carbon leakage companies. In general, it makes sense that they receive free units at the beginning of the year and then, when it comes to the moment of settlement, they have free units received, they do not have to pay for those units that they receive free of charge. But now, during this transitional period, there is a situation in which the European Commission wants to review and verify separately how many units will be provided free of charge in a given year and, consequently, the deadline for them to pay when they have received their account, a trading account, these free units will come first. Well, it could be two months, maybe three months. The Ministry claimed that this was only the first year of start-up, in the coming years maybe everything will work out. However, the alternative solution, supported by industry and which seemed reasonable, is that, according to the previous year, they will receive free credits and, if there is a correction, the correction will take place afterwards. Either more units are given or taken away, but they do not get that big financial hole in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1197	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I apologize in advance for asking you a little bit more, but I'll take the chance that you're in the remote. Don't we have something to do with carrying water like this? We are trying to be good in Europe and also in Estonia. This idea is very sympathetic. But if we look at China, their energy policy, and how they produce energy, and what happens in the rainforests, etc., doesn't that give us such a reason to carry the water with a sieve?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1199	A rhyme? No, I don't think that's a reason for a brawl. If there are decisions that are against the environment somewhere else, I don't think it follows that we should do the same. What is true, though, is that global cooperation in this field and global concrete There should be more "commitment" commitments, it should be more systematic. But they're actually moving in that direction. What has slowed down these agreements following the Paris Agreement has been largely the previous administration of the United States, which has left the Paris Agreement. And, of course, on top of that, the same China that you mentioned said: but I'm sorry why us then. Since a large part of China's emissions are, in fact, products produced by Europeans and Americans, why should they make an effort? But it's changed. Now, after becoming President of Joe Biden, the United States has rejoined the Paris climate agreement. The Chinese, for their part, have committed themselves to achieving climate neutrality by 2060 and by 2030 their emissions are still rising, but they are actually making significant and really significant investments in the transition to renewable energy, as are India and many other countries. So, in this context, I think that, frankly, only Russia and Brazil remain in the large countries. The rest, however, are quite active in their work. At the end of this year, there will also be a meeting of the parties to the Paris climate agreement to set new targets in Britain. By then, I think this picture will be even better than it is today. So I can't say I'm not moving. They are moving, and I think Estonia should move along. And speaking of moral responsibility, Estonia's environmental footprint per capita is one of the largest in the world, due to the pollution of oil shale energy. We're very small in total emissions, but for a person, our emissions are very, very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1200	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1201	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! There have occasionally been debates and debates about the justification of indirect taxes and state fees in Estonia, whether they are too small or too large, and it has often been found that all these fees are high. Here too, this bill amends the law on state fees. It has been said here that a state fee of EUR 300 will be paid for the examination of the request to open a trading account and EUR 320 will be paid for the maintenance of the trading account each year. At the same time, I cannot find a word in this explanatory memorandum as to why such sums have been taken. Was there any discussion about whether they are too big or too small or just fit, and why so? On what basis were they established as such?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1202	Thank you. No discussion, there's a short answer. And it was not discussed because it was a technical change to bring it into line with another implementing act that came from the European Commission. It changes not the state fee itself, but the name of the object, i.e. the current account, into a trading account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1203	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1204	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Could you explain a little bit about the evolution of the price of the emissions trade? You mentioned that the price was higher. Are emissions trading subject to the same price increase principle as oil trading, for example, that oil still in the ground is being sold and that amount, hypothetical amount, is still being sold and the price continues to rise? Or is it more rational?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1205	Thank you. Yeah, I'll try to be brief. It is a trading period, and it is also very difficult to simplify; I do not know all the nuances either, I admit. The countries will then be given the whole pot, which is in units, distributed on top of the countries. It is compulsory for countries to actually sell these units stablely, perhaps even in equal weekly quantities, so that speculation by countries cannot be that, for example, I do not sell for nine years, I look until the price is awfully high, then I sell everything. There can't be such a thing. Thus, on the side of the offer of available units, [it can be said that] the available units are sold on a stable basis. What affects this market is that a linear reduction coefficient has also been agreed in the emissions trading system. This is a very important thing and it shows how many percent each year the whole system reduces the number of free units. As the number of units is reduced each year, this means that pollution is becoming increasingly expensive every year in the European Union, because those who pollute have to buy them. That is the whole point of directing companies towards a less carbon intensive industry. If this decrease is fast enough, then of course prices will increase. These are the discussions that are usually held to include any new areas in the emissions trading system and what to do with a linear reduction coefficient. Do you want to make this decrease curve steeper, for example? Then surely prices will also rise. So it is such a regulated market in the sense that the underlying assumptions of the market are set out in a regulatory manner. But within these frameworks, there is stability on the supply side, and on the purchasing side, companies are making their own economic decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1206	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1207	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! We know that children and young people are major climate protesters. Why can't we see them demanding what your amendment says in front of Stenbock's house? Given the seriousness of the climate crisis, Estonia's exceptionally large ecological footprint per person and the growing global need to speed up green investment, why can't they put pressure on the current government in front of Stenbock's house there so that at the level of the law there is a requirement to use all emissions trading revenues to achieve climate goals? After all, young people are currently deprived of the circles of interest, which gave them purposeful occupancy, educated them very widely, and certainly made them smarter in things that help them to understand the world better. Shouldn't those young people who think the same way as you do in your amendments, come behind you on this issue and give the government more information about their wishes and wishes on these issues? Perhaps it would be a good opportunity to add to the wish list, in addition to saving the planet, to the current government the recovery of the money for recreational education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1208	Thank you. Well, on the shoulders of young people who worry about their future and nature, there is already much, including, for example, the fight against the very anti-climate investment, the construction of an oil plant, not only in protests, but also legally. So you can't deal with everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1209	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If you come back to my previous question, it is a shame, of course, that you do not know what the cause of the rebirth of your former supporters is. But that's it. I wanted to ask you how you feel about public transport. As we know, free public transport in Estonia will already take about 60 million euros in 2024. Do you think this funding is included in the climate goals? Can it be said, in essence, that the good will of the government is part of the money put in place to meet the climate objectives, which is 50% of it? How does that feel to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1211	Yeah, they tried to put that argument on the Commission by the Treasury Department, but since I think it's a little crazy, I left it out. But it's a good thing you're raising it. The debate in the Commission was that, since public transport subsidies represent such a large amount of money, you see, we are putting more than 100% of the emissions trading system actually in place to meet the climate objectives. Certainly, some new public transport development projects have a positive climate impact and can, of course, be presented as such. But I don't know, for example, the ferry connection to Hiiumaa is also public transport, but to say that we read in order to achieve this climate goal that we ensure our'social basic function' that we have a connection to our islands, I think it's a little stupid. It is certainly possible to achieve a new quality in terms of mobility in the transport sector in some places, also investing money from climate units, but afterwards say that every euro we put on a bus, train and ferry, well I don't know, then the Kuressaare plane should also be climate investment, it is also public transport. This, I think, isn't really adequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1212	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1213	Dear Evgeny! There are a few questions, but I guess I'll just get on with the old stuff. In short, I think that these quota prices, basic prices, were once put in place in certain ways, as a result of processes, and oil shale was given certain pollution characteristics, which began to be taken into account, well, once that thing went to work. Today we have reached the point that oil shale, oil shale production, is generally considered to be very polluting, carbon-rich. But I have met our oil shale [production] old dinosaurs, from Reinsalu to Soone, and men say that they have already developed a system that generally provides a much less polluting way to operate in oil shale production. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How could we still... Yesterday I...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1214	Good questioner, I'm so sorry, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1215	...meeting the people who deal with it. They say we can do it differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1216	All right, time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1217	Yeah, well, the story to turn oil shale into green fuel has been long-spoken. There is little to show, if not to say, that almost nothing. Theoretically, a lot of things are possible, so-called transforming it from an energetic resource into a chemical resource, but the question is whether it can actually be made economically viable. Let people work, I don't have too much faith in it, but if the private sector wants to carry development here, they'll definitely have that chance. But as far as burning oil shale into either liquid fuel or electricity is concerned, the only way to make it more environmentally friendly is to put additional energy into your skin in order to pump it into ships and take it to other countries. It is also offered as a solution, but let us be honest, in the short term, where we need results, we actually have all the solutions in place to produce electricity from green in Estonia. It would focus on this and instead of keeping this client or patient on the breathing apparatus named oil shale energy alive, it would really try to offer Ida-Viru County a positive vision for the future with a corresponding investment programme and a grant programme, as I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1218	Good waitress! Good fellows! I'm taking the chairman's break for 25 minutes here, so let's move on to 6:30.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1219	Good fellows! The break taken by the manager is over. In the meantime, the Board of the Riigikogu met and made subsequent decisions relating to the convening of an additional sitting. The Board of the Riigikogu decided at its meeting of 9 June, including 8 June, to cancel the decision to convene an additional session of the Riigikogu, including 12 June, beginning at 17:00. According to § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, including 9 June, I invite the Chamber of Toompea Castle to meet as follows. Firstly, the first additional sitting, including 12 June, beginning at 9 a.m. until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 12 June at 21 a.m. On the agenda of the first additional sitting, the 17th working week of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu, i.e. 7 June, is on the agenda of 10 June, but the agenda items that have not been discussed during this working week, with the exception of the important national question, "Equality in Estonia can be cut out of poverty?" discussion. Secondly, if the items on the agenda of the first additional sitting cannot be discussed, the second additional meeting will take place, including on 13 June at 10 a.m. until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 June at 9 a.m., which is Monday next week. The agenda for the second additional sitting shall include all items which were not discussed at the first additional sitting. Thank you. Now, please, a procedural question, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1220	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased that you have cancelled this supplementary sitting on the 9th date. As I understand it, this decision no longer applies. However, § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act states: "The additional sitting is called by the President of the Riigikogu. The President of the Riigikogu shall inform the members of the Riigikogu of the convening at least three days before the additional sitting takes place through the media. " What day is it now? Today is what date? Nine, huh? We need to know three days in advance, so I think we can put the maximum amount of this on some other time point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1221	I'm so sorry, Mr. Grünthal, but what's the question now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1222	Three days is needed in advance...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1223	Yeah. Pursuant to § 49 (3) of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the President of the Riigikogu convenes an additional session. "The President of the Riigikogu shall inform the members of the Riigikogu of the summons by means of the media at least three days before the additional sitting takes place. In the case of weight reasons, the period of notice may be shorter. " This is what we discussed on the Board of the Riigikogu. Yes, you are right that, based on this three-day principle, if we call it together today, as we have just done, it would mean that it is Thursday, Friday and Saturday and Sunday, but the board discussed it and found that there are compelling reasons at the moment and therefore this time could be shorter. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1224	Thank you. I will now resort to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The comments in this section state that a compelling reason must be justified, not simply put out that way, but I did not hear a single word in your decision as to what this compelling reason is. Maybe you'll take a five-minute break and make a new decision on what the big reason is. Because at least the comments give everyone a nice, nice way of saying that there can't be a compelling reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1225	Thank you. The main reason that all board members realized is that we do not yet know three nights in theory in one week, all the more because two nights in succession, it does not make sense in terms of the health of all of us. So that is the compelling reason, and as far as I know, at least one member of the Riigikogu drew attention to this in the implementation of the sitting on his procedural issues. Henn Põllamas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1226	Thank you. I ask exactly what I asked for here at the beginning of the sitting. Our Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that when all sittings are convened, the agenda must be indicated, but this invitation for an additional sitting does not set out on the agenda. Maybe there'll be some drafts, maybe they won't come, there'll be others. In fact, it is not possible to conduct a full session of the Riigikogu in a situation where members of the Riigikogu do not know specifically which drafts are intended to be dealt with. This invitation does not comply with the procedures and laws we have put in place and this additional sitting cannot be conducted in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1227	Thank you. After all, the answer has been distributed to all of us on these yellow pages, the 17th working week agenda of the V session of the Riigikogu, which currently concerns 9 June, 10 June, or Wednesday and Thursday of this week. Just as I said, on the basis of this agenda, we will actually work on additional sessions, both at first and, if necessary, on the second, on the basis of how much we will be able to discuss in our regular sittings and on the basis of how much we will be able to discuss in the first additional sitting and what will be shifted or postponed to the second additional sitting. The agenda is the same as the one currently on the table. Let's move on. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1228	Thank you, Mr President. I will now use the help of this wise yellow book, which you are likely to possess. It says here that you have to announce three days in advance. The reason for this is for the delegates to be able to draw up their timetable for the sitting, to take into account it and to meet on the holding of the sitting and to prepare for discussion on the items on the agenda of the sitting. This means that we must, however, find out what these issues are, because we need to discuss these issues, to deepen them, and so on. That would be one argument. The second argument, of course, is that there really are such compelling reasons. However, the expression "big reasons" suggests that the issues that the Riigikogu must discuss and decide are , I stress, listen carefully now, and that compliance with the three-day notice period can lead to serious consequences. I would like to know what the serious consequences of this book are. The Board of the Riigikogu must, as I said, justify this decision by setting the time of the additional sitting. It is not just that you are saying right now, but what are these things, urgent things and the consequences that are serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1229	Thank you. The concern and sense of the Board of Riigikogu, the three members of the Board, was, as I said earlier, this health aspect in order to reduce the risk. We thought it was right not to be up for two nights in a row, given that we still have a Thursday night hearing today, most likely. What you are saying is that a member of the Riigikogu must seriously deepen and prepare for the items on the agenda, here I fully agree with you, but I am absolutely convinced that we have all done so now. It may also be that on Wednesday we will discuss the agenda beautifully and on Thursday we will discuss it. We have, I believe, already made preparations in person, at group level and at committee level. Now, what you're saying is three days' notice. As I said, the law really says that, if there are compelling reasons, the notice period may be shorter. Here you can also rely on the previous practice of the Riigikogu. This has been done for more than three days. A procedural question, Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1230	Thank you. It is about how an additional sitting can be held without knowing the agenda. Indeed, it still happens from time to time that during the week, the entire week's agenda will not be processed and these drafts will shift to next week. But then it is always known specifically, it is all sent to members of the Riigikogu and the agenda is reconfirmed. Everything is specifically, everything is numerically, essentially known in advance. But now that you just send a round invitation that doesn't have any drafts, it doesn't comply with our Home and Working Procedures Act. You can't have a hearing like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1231	Thank you, Mr Pier. As I said, this agenda is on your desks, we are working on this agenda, except for this speciality for the additional sessions, which are currently on the agenda as the first item on Thursday. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1232	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a very serious concern, because the OTRK, which deals with inequality in Estonia, has been brought forward in the same way because whether poverty can be cut out, was such an important issue. I really wanted to listen to it and be part of it. I do not understand now: if we are going to change the agenda, on what legal basis is this now excluded? We're dealing with a change of agenda here. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1233	Thank you. In my opinion, the same issue was also raised during the day in the implementation of the sitting. I fully agree that the topic that the Group of the Social Democratic Party has brought to the table is very topical. The request made by the political party has been that this debate be held on 10 June. Additional meetings are known to have been convened on dates which are not 10 June, but 12 June and 13 June, which may also go to 14 June. This is the reason that the request of the group has been made on 10 June. But, in my opinion, as the President replied in the implementation of the sitting around two o'clock today, there is hope that we will be there if we all work together. At the moment, I think that the pace has been perhaps a little calm, but there have been discussions. If this continues to be the case, I think we're going to have some constructive discussions, and we're going to pick up some pace, there's faith, hope, and I think there's a little love that we can get there. We can't say we're not gonna make it tonight. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1234	Thank you, Mr President. § 49 (3) of the additional sitting of the Riigikogu is furnished with two sentences and the last sentence says: "If there are any reasons for the need to make a notification, the period of notice may be shorter. " I agree that it can be interpreted both so and so, but this very yellow wise book on page 189 says: "The period of notice may be shorter than three days, but only if there are compelling reasons. "The verbal expression "big reasons" suggests that the questions that the Riigikogu must discuss and decide are urgent and that compliance with the three-day notice period can have serious consequences. This means that there must be an interaction between the two conditions, because it is first urgent and then a serious consequence. You explained the hard consequences to me and said there were healthy reasons, maybe everyone's health wouldn't last. What, though, are the urgent circumstances that we now have to call this thing together as a matter of urgency? I'd like to understand that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1235	Thank you. You're always very precise. You said that there are two sentences in § 49 (3), but there are even three sentences if my eyesight doesn't deceive me, but that's a small observation. But these urgent matters are all the items on the agenda that need to be discussed. Here only the previous speaker was concerned about what will become of this "Equality in Estonia - can poverty be cut off?'. It's just as important. So I can't tell you which is less important than these points. All points in their area are important items on the agenda. [It is necessary that we get this work done as foreseen in the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, and that we get these agendas dealt with. These are the important observations. Now, let's move on to a nice pace right now. Henn Põllamas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Surely there is no secret to you why the Conservative People's Party is currently carrying out such an obstruction. The reason is very simple: we refuse to enter an orwellian dystopian world where the eyes of a great brother control and observe us. We stand for a democratic society. One of the tasks of the President of the Riigikogu is to ensure the work of the Riigikogu. Have you also discussed the possibility of avoiding this obstruction together, for we are not enthusiastic or interested in it either? We're just forced to do this right now. Have you thought about and discussed in the Bureau how to avoid this in order to remove this draft ABIS from the procedure and we could, without any further sittings, without any night meetings, calmly process these drafts of this week and also next week's drafts, and everything would be fine? Have you taken any steps to that end?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1237	Thank you. I must say that your current procedural question, along with a small speech, as the Chairman of the Group, is, in my view, a pretty good start and gives me the hope that [it is possible] to find the compromise that you actually expressed. We understand that why additional sittings are also taking place, this is no secret, as you say, to a single draft, which is 366 SE. If you ask whether we have discussed in the board of directors to find such a compromise that there will be no obstruction by law, this possibility is given and it is nothing illegal, yes, we are. I started the Bureau meeting, by the way, on whether we could find a compromise. Not at the moment, but you know as well as I do that politics is dynamic and hours pass and sometimes compromises arise. But yes, we discussed, but did not find a compromise, that is the answer. Let's keep going. Back on the bench line. Kalle Grünthal, your procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1238	Thank you, Mr President, for explaining to you what these urgent circumstances are. You have now explained this by such a sentence structure: the urgent fact is the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu, the questions on the agenda. They're actually our everyday tool here, and I don't see anything urgent here. And you haven't been able to justify to me right now that if we do this on the agenda... Okay, let's assume that your interpretation is correct, that it is urgent, that the agenda needs to be processed and that if we do not, then there will be a serious consequence. Now, with regard to these two sentences, I would like to ask for your assessment that if we do not deal with the agenda, what will be the hard result?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1239	Thank you. I will be honest with you that you must, of course, read the law, but I rather think you should see that the glass is still half-full, not-empty, and that there will be a positive result, not a difficult result. I do believe that if we work together here with these agenda items seriously, we will have a discussion, we will find the best solutions, there will certainly not be any serious consequences. I really hope that's what we all want. But now there is a chance to move forward, we currently have a very interesting and comprehensive bill that we are currently discussing, 345, a draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection and state fees. My sense is that Jevgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Committee on the Environment, is ready to return to the Riigikogu Chair so that we can proceed immediately. So you could do that, you could choose this path. But let's do some more procedural questions. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1240	Good George! I have searched several times today for compromises on how to resolve this matter. You know, I have an idea, and I'm going to recommend to the board right now, very good and very symbolic. The board could take a short break, so 20 to 30 minutes, and during this period go through a very interesting thought. As we know yesterday, 72 years passed since George Orwell's 1984 was published. This is a remarkable anniversary, and it is precisely for this reason that we could today take the decision that we are pushing this orwellian law into the 366th autumn. We're gonna solve all the problems, and all it takes is a couple of minutes of break, we're gonna negotiate, and we're all gonna be happy. That's a great idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1241	Thank you. I am not criticising this idea, and I say it is a very interesting idea. I am sure that the members of the Bureau will listen, take it to think, and these holidays can really come at today's session, which cannot be ruled out. But maybe it won't, maybe it'll all be so smooth that they won't take another break. But let's see, the thought is worth considering, I totally appreciate it. Now, I see Mr. Ossinovski would very much like to come to the chair. [[Voice from the floor: Very!]] He even says that in words, but let's do another procedural question. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1242	Thank you, Mr President. Now, the last time I asked you about this urgent circumstance and the difficult consequences that must at least be causally linked to this book, it seemed to me, figuratively speaking, that you were losing the surface. Because you said that an urgent matter is going through the agenda, and if we do not pass it, there will be a serious consequence. Please explain why and how it is possible that if we do not discuss the agenda there will be a serious consequence. Please don't bring in someone's health [status] things that can't endure. You have not, at the moment, linked this board's decision to the state of health of older people. It also seems to me now that you have entered a bit of a bucket in the Bureau in this sense, because if you have justified this with a state of health, you cannot come in this Chamber and say that the agenda is actually this. This requires you to sit there for 25 minutes again and discuss that it may be possible to tie the agenda to some sort of difficult effect. I'm kind of in the middle of something right now, you're coming to us in front of the hall, you're talking about one reason, but if we start to look more closely, it turns out that the problem on the agenda is quite serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1243	Thank you. I thank you very much for your concern for the underfoot or the surface. It is certain now underfoot, I feel with two legs, this area of the Riigikogu building is not shaking in any way. So we can get through here. But we're really going to keep going. I thank you for all your help and support, for their good thoughts. They are all very worthwhile in our future work to take into account as much as possible. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question! If you now have a question as to whether Mr Ossinovski will agree and be prepared to come to the Riigikogu Chair, I will reply immediately to the question that he will agree to this if it is your procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1244	One step at a time. My question is that if the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu said earlier that the law on working and rest periods does not apply in the Riigikogu, what is your position as Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1245	I have to apologize, but I wasn't there for this conversation, so I don't even know if you're referring to Martin Helme or Hanno Pevkur. [[The floor shall be specified.]] Got it. I'm sure I'll talk to him about what he meant by that, but I wasn't in the hall at the time, and I didn't hear that discussion. Paul Woodland, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1246	Thank you, good George! I still have one more idea. Considering everything, this complicated situation and the state of health and so on, maybe we'll be reasonable to take a break in minutes 20 and consider it that... [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1247	I really am sorry, I have to stand by as manager so that we can work in peace. Please give me the seconds back to Mr. Pulpland, because I couldn't ensure order in the hall! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1248	... during the intermission, you would consider the idea that, in the interests of all of us, maybe we would do the same agenda for the next sitting, all things and the same days as well, but as a remote session. Then maybe we could be in the care of our own people in case our health gets out of hand. Well, in the sense of taking a little break, going to a long-distance hearing, and going through all these items at a remote hearing. That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1249	Thank you. This is a very serious and interesting idea. I really thank you for taking advantage of these procedural issues in a very substantial way and for helping the board and the entire Riigikogu in my opinion. Thank you for that! The regulation on going to a long-term hearing has been quite firmly established, in which cases it will be possible to go to a long-term hearing, which, as far as I know, was discussed by the previous Bureau. Now, in today's situation, if you can see that a point would be suitable for this remote hearing, please help go on with this idea, and it is not excluded that this remote session will really be tested at one point. Then, of course, the question arises again with this connection, as you know. We didn't have the best connection, but we did it. At the moment, the Bureau has not considered the point of a remote sitting, but it is a completely new corner that comes in during this debate. Kalle Grünthal, please, you have a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1250	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1251	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1252	Here's the question. Before I ask the question, I saw that you wanted the board to hold two additional sessions of the Riigikogu, one on Saturday and [the other is] Sunday. Let me get this straight. Wasn't it? How was it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1253	Thank you. I will answer your procedural question: yes, you correctly understood that one sitting, the first supplementary sitting, is on Saturday, and there is no need for this additional one. If we keep up the same pace, we're done, but if we have to, there'll be a hearing on Sunday, which will last until Monday. Henn Põllamas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1254	Thank you. I understand from your description that the board still does not agree to withdraw this bill 366 from the proceedings. In fact, we know that a member of the board is very kind to agree and recommends it, one is really very opposed and one, I don't really know what to say, so and so. But we know what it's like in this hall. We and other opposition parties: we are completely opposed, I do not dare say one hundred percent about others, but it is still quite clear that the indication is that they are against this draft. We have been talking here to the people of the Central Party and the Reform Party. And you know how many of them say that it really is an absolutely ugly thing and shouldn't be accepted! So maybe you'll take a break, consult with the members of the Central Party and Reform Party, and we'll be like a big family here throwing it out the window as a bee boss. If necessary, we could kindly convene a body of elders. I myself kindly agree to come there to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1255	Thank you. It's really very kind of you to be willing to come. Thank you. That's positive news, and I'm sure I'll write it down. But you are right in that we are all free here in our mandate, and when this final vote comes, no one knows how we will vote. So in this sense, I share your view that those who do not support must express that they do not support it and those who support it can vote in favour of it. But we should get to this debate, then we will also get a sense of how one or the other member of the Riigikogu will vote. I now have a suggestion that we proceed with Bill 345. I'd have a very big request. Mr. Grünthal, would you support me in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1256	I couldn't answer, I didn't have the microphone on. But since I could not answer that question, if you wanted an answer right away, I would like to draw attention to one very important detail in my opinion. Namely, § 49 is grammatically worded as follows: an additional session of the Riigikogu. Agreed. Okay. But a moment ago, I asked you how many sessions we had. You said Saturday and maybe Sunday and so on, didn't you? In essence, according to this grammatical interpretation, I can admit that you will only be able to hold one additional session of the Riigikogu, because otherwise you will change the timetable of the Riigikogu's work, which requires a two-thirds majority. I see a problem here because the competence of the board is not alone to set a new timetable, which requires the agreement of the two thirds of the members of the Riigikogu on this matter. The question is, you see, the ambassadors have not only a place to sit here, but they also have a job, say, with voters too, we have different appointments planned, we have scheduled meetings, etc., which are also covered by different groups of people and not small groups at all. This means that if you want to hold several sessions, you need basically 2/3 of the ambassadors' consent. I have not yet finished with this weighty reason, of course, but I admit that in fact you have only one additional session on the board, because it has not been said here that the additional sessions of the Riigikogu will be held. This is where the border should be drawn between what is within the competence of the management board and what is a change in the timetable of the work of the Riigikogu. Those are two different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1257	Thank you very much, I would say, for the in-depth analysis! We did indeed follow Article 49 (3) of our Home and Working Procedures Act. Helle-Moonika Helme, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1258	Yeah, thanks! However, I would like to return to a key national issue initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. When you came in and told me what the board decided at first, I immediately noticed that it was out again. But now that you're happy to announce that, well, if we keep going at this rate nice and nice, maybe we don't need to meet on Sunday, how do you feel now? If, for example, we really end up going at such a good pace on Saturday, why don't we take this important national issue for discussion on Sunday? I would, and I think we would all be very sorry if it were to stay out of this session and move somewhere in the autumn. Whether poverty can be cut out is still a very important issue for the whole population now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1259	Thank you. I agree that this is a very important issue, but I will stick to the same answer I gave here. The Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed that this be discussed on a specific day, which is Thursday, 10 June or tomorrow, and I share the same hope as you that if we move forward in a good way, perhaps this serious debate will take place. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1260	Good manager! Nice night, a lot of people would like to sit outside...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1261	Why isn't she a beautiful night?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1262	...to take cold beer or cider, but here we are preparing for marathon sessions, nights. We've been sitting here for five hours and we haven't even finished with the third point yet, but 17 is still ahead. So at a nice pace, of course I doubt where we're going. My question is, wouldn't it be better to take out the 366, prints and the big brother's bill now? You'd be happy with that. It's not the end of the world now. It's been baked for a long time, and I've been watching this video, and it's a beautiful video. Why push and rape the coalition ambassadors, who have to sit here on guard? It's kind of easier for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1263	Thank you. At the moment, this agreement has not come to remove this item from the agenda. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1264	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take a look at the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1265	I'm sorry! I'll interrupt for a second: I think that would be very necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1266	The question is what situation we are in. First you came to the hall and said that you annulled the decision you had taken that the hearing would take place here from Saturday to Monday morning. Okay. This decision is valid. It's been revoked. Okay. Then you explained that the weighty reason is that you indicated that if there is a compelling reason, it is possible to do that you care about the health of older ambassadors because they cannot stay up that long. That was the justification for your board's decision. However, you have now finally explained this because it turned out that this wise book of the Riigikogu says that there is a causal link between the urgent issue and the difficult consequences that this urgent issue is going through the agenda. But you didn't tell me what the hard result was. It was also your oral decision right here. Now I would like to point out that, since the Bureau has taken the decision that the reason is the health of older people, you cannot, without the decision of the board, change or render secondary and state other reasons on the basis of compelling circumstances. To do that, you need to regroup. Do you understand? One thing is what you are saying, but you have made a specific statement on what the Bureau decided. But the weighty fact... You cannot change the decision of the board or state the second recital. I would advise you to return to this board [to discuss] for 25 minutes and now take this issue from this angle.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1267	Thank you for this recommendation. Thank you very much. But I have never mentioned the age aspect of health. Paul Woodland, please, a procedural question! There should be a third proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1268	Thank you, good George! Indeed, I think about this compromise all the time, and I see that he is quite there, almost there. If you take a little break again, look, if this 366 is such an important law[the bill] and we know that we have an idea here all the time, then during this break, you can discuss this question at the board, so maybe we can raise this point to last. [[Laughing.]] Because look, if we've reached a certain stage on Sunday morning or Monday morning at 5:00 a.m., then maybe we've come to realize that there's something smarter we can do about it, maybe postpone it. But if we make him last, we'll have time to think. That would be a pretty good idea, actually.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1269	I think that would be a very good idea! Not quite good. Very good. So it's really necessary to think and it's nice to think. But I have a proposition now. I think and as manager, I feel that maybe there are some procedural questions left, but it seems to me that we have gone around the world, all these procedural questions, and I don't think there will be much more. Let's do another test. Ivi Eenmaa, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here the terms "old people" and so on, etc. have been heard. I would say that, being the oldest member of the Riigikogu, I am not paralyzed by a long trial, but actually by this obstruction on the left side, and that really makes me sick. It's never been before. I remember since 1999 when I was here as a full member. But my question. Mr. Chairman, do you have the opportunity to stop this nonsense, the obstruction that is going on in this Chamber, so that we can discuss and shoot Mr. Ossinovski's remote control as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1271	Thank you. As a manager, I can certainly say that it is now over with taking procedural questions and we are going on. At the same time, you have also come from you; some members of the Riigikogu have made very many serious proposals. As Mr Pulpland said, it is like tangible, I also feel this compromise. And I also see that Evgeny is completely ready, and I appreciate that readiness very highly. I have a request, Mr Grünthal and Mr Ernits, that we proceed with this debate. Can I ask you to do that? I beg you! Mr. Grünthal, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1272	Thank you, Mr President. I would have stopped my round of questions a long time ago if you had given me constructive answers, exactly as I ask and what I want to know. You're just saying thank you. Yeah, that's what it says here. But I'm still interested in where I can read. Is this decision of the Governing Board made known to us in writing or is it not yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1273	Sending. If not sent, it will be sent immediately. But you've been informed, I read it about 42 minutes ago. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1274	Yeah. I can really see, as Mr Puustusmaa said, that the solution is within reach. But I'm asking. Someone like somewhere is putting pressure on that 366, print to accept a big brother's bill at all costs. And it's actually the Minister of the Interior, Kristian Jaani, who's standing back there. Is he in any way threatening you or the Riigikogu's direction, or is he standing at the door somewhere, grenade or rags in his hand? Maybe there's a little thing we can do to help us take Kristian down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1275	Thank you! I think you've come to really help. No, no one is threatening, and we are still following our principle that the executive and legislative powers are separate. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1276	Thank you, Mr President. As I understand it, this announcement to convene an additional sitting has not yet been sent through the media. But I'm gonna go check the computer upstairs right now, and if it's there, I'm gonna make it clear how it's formulated, and if I have any procedural questions there, I'm really sorry to Evgeny that I'm gonna have to do a little more on the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1277	Thank you. I now ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1278	Okay. Somebody wants to ask me something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1279	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1280	I can also answer procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1281	Thank you, Mr Ossinovski, but we are still based on one manager at a time. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1282	Thank you, George! Evgeny, your thoroughness in presenting this bill is inspiring and you could say, even buzzing, because such a very thorough explanation of the nuances that are actually hard to understand and which seem at times even unnecessary, it's like a human soul engineer game. I like it very much, I also say that if I ask the next question now, you can answer as thoroughly as possible because I really care. I would like to know, for example, that if it is said here that the following changes are made to the Air Protection Act, in § 1233 (5) (1) the word'standard' is replaced by'standard series', then I understand this a little bit, because I read the explanatory memorandum in the same way and understand that this reference to ISO 14064 is in the current law. This is because the standard has been transposed into three standards in Estonia. Now I'm getting confused, and I'm asking for your thorough answer, which is these three standards, because there's no reference to it here, there's just reference to three standards here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1283	Thank you. I don't know anything about that either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1284	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1285	Thank you, Mr President. Such a fine intellectual debate has arisen here, and I would also like to ask for and discuss a bit more broadly. As we know, Marju Lauristin has once said about the Estonian Social Democratic Party that it is one of the most right-wing parties in Europe, a Social Democratic Party, not all but a Social Democratic Party in the European context. For your information: In Estonia, the Estonian Socialist Workers' Party, between the two World Wars, there was also one of Europe's most, at the time it was said, the most bourgeois parties. I would really need to understand your stance as one of the advocates of climate policy in relation to this draft. That is why I ask: where do the Estonian Social Democrats position in climate policy in the context of their European peers? Are you more radical now, or are you perhaps more flexible, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1286	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1287	Thank you. Mr. Grünthal, don't worry! I will fulfill your purpose with meaningful talk. We don't have to talk about this procedural crap, in this sense we work together, at least for others, more intellectually interesting than this weighty discussion of reasons. Mr White's answer: I think, in fact, we are relatively consistent in our positions, rather with such Nordic social democrats' ambition and level of ambition. There are certainly also political parties in Europe who are less sensitive to the climate crisis than they should be. But as a whole, we have to say about this broader assessment of Marju Lauristin that, for example, in environmental policy in general, we are taking Germany or Great Britain, then in climate policy in both countries Conservatives are still very, very green compared to, for example, conservatives in Estonia, who have taken the funny view of almost no climate[changes]. In fact, it has been justified precisely because the climate crisis poses a very high risk to nations, nation states, to the various fundamental values for which conservative political thought flows stand. One very interesting piece of literature or study is, for example, Climate Change and the Nation State. I strongly recommend reading it, namely, where the author calls on conservative parties to take the climate crisis as a major threat to nation states, to take it much more seriously than has been done so far, and not to give this issue away to social democratic movements. I very much agree. I suggest you do the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1288	Thank you. Peter Ernits, did something happen? A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1289	No, I had before, and I wanted to ask you, it's a beautiful night, how the manager looks at it, or whether he's read Orwell's Animal Farm.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1290	Thanks for the test where you're gonna ask and I'm gonna answer! This is not a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please, you waved for a long time! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1291	Thank you very much, Mr President. I really do have a procedural question. My name was on the speech list right after Kert Kingo. Now he's gone in full. I think this is the kind of, figuratively speaking, screaming physical violence that should be my name restored to that place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1292	Yeah, I'll do whatever it takes, we'll do everything we can to restore it and get that list back on track. There have been some procedural questions in the meantime, maybe that's why the system's been a little jammed up, but there haven't been a lot of them. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1293	Yeah. I don't have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1294	I know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1295	Dear waitress, I believe most of us here are industrious garbage harvesters and, as far as possible, re-users. Of course, we all appreciate the clean air we breathe. In this respect, I believe, this bill is most welcome. What bothers me and what I want to ask you is this kind of philosophical starting point. It reminds me of my youth when there was a very well-known man named Ivan Mithurin and were young Mithurin. The young michurinians made all kinds of test pieces and dealt with small plant breeding. Do you not think that we now have a certain backward michurinism in this context of global warming? Mithurin, as we know, said that we do not expect nature to give mercy. It's like we're waiting for nature to take away all our gifts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1296	Thank you. No, the issue of plant breeding was not addressed in the context of this draft by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1297	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1298	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Here you spoke a little bit about your amendment, and it turned out to cost around 500 million. I have a question: did you also come up with this idea of where this 500 million would come from in the state budget, from where on the line?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1299	Thank you. I would point out that, since the revenues of the emission trading system are divided by a decade, I talked about the entire decade's revenue, i.e. the whole decade, depending on what the price of the quota is, it could be up to EUR 500 million at current prices. The state budget is, as we know, planned for a much shorter period in the country's budget strategy. This means that these potential quota revenues will also increase compared to what has previously been forecasted as prices have increased. So basically, if you take such a decision, it doesn't mean you should, well, I don't know, in the next year, suddenly find a very large sum on the other lines and put it into the climate goals. This issue is about us taking a longer-term direction so that we use these amounts from climate units to achieve climate objectives. So in the short term, in the budgetary context, this change is not so great, but cumulatively it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1300	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1301	Your amendment was related to the clarification of the emissions trade. Maybe I didn't read the explanatory statement so carefully, but what are the amounts that would go straight to climate policy? What would be the real impact of these amounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1302	I have just answered this question, Mr Kingo's question was exactly the same. The question is how many total revenues we receive from the emissions trading system, and then the question is how much of it will be used to achieve the climate goals. This forecast is made over a decade, due to the regulation that the trading period is a decade. As I said, the price per quota unit is very dynamic, prices have now risen to 50 euros per tonne. By comparison, only a few years ago was 20. So these revenues have multiplied. Depending on how fast the price will increase, its impact on the volume of investments will also be greater, but in the order of magnitude, say, in the price we predicted earlier, we assumed that it could be up to half a billion, but probably because these prices are rising, the state will also have more of these revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1303	Yes, there has really been a serious debate here, Mr Grünthal, on your procedural question. You have another question for the waitress. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1304	(Live conversation in the hall.) May I ask, yes? Thank you. I looked at this problem here. You have discussed Estonia's exceptionally large ecological footprint per person in the Commission. But there was also a debate in this very Chamber on the issue of energy security, where Alar Konis said that Europe's carbon emissions are 9% and Estonia's 0.00. Practically nonexistent. Is the importance of this exceptionally large ecological footprint in Estonia not simply artificially upset compared to the release of real CO2 into the atmosphere?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1305	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1306	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1307	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good performer! Here before the conversation, or during the questions and answers, you said that, in a ten-year perspective, this accounting of the CO2 quota sales revenue for green costs would cost about 500 million. I'm sure you've been told, too, but I repeat, everyone would know that, in terms of the budget, this would mean a hole of half a billion euros to the budget, which would have to be covered somehow. It's the money we're doing something else with right now, and it can't be done anymore. What could be the vision of this half-billion-dollar hole being covered? Do you see cuts for half a billion dollars, or are tax increases still planned? And if there are tax increases, maybe you can open up to us what these tax increases would be like to cover half a billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1308	Thank you. I have already answered that question that up to half a billion which we have calculated is for a decade, so we are not talking about finding half a billion anywhere. As the total volume of the budget increases, these additional costs can also be used from additional resources. In order to achieve the climate targets agreed, climate investment needs to be increased anyway. This would be a beautiful stable own resource in order to better plan [costs] which would not actually have a significant impact on the overall budget over a decade.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1309	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1310	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I have this question that the representative of the Electricity Industry Association has proposed to supplement the draft with provisions which would also allow large joint projects to request funding from the Modernisation Fund and ensure equal treatment between national support schemes and individual projects. Unfortunately, the representatives of the ministries ignored the above-mentioned proposals. Can you tell me why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1311	Well, why can't I! I even talked about it a long time ago when I introduced the bill. The members of the Commission considered that this proposal was not appropriate. It is based on various reasons, which are beautifully complex and which can be viewed through a verbatim in accordance with my earlier answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1312	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1313	Thank you, Mr President. A nice technical draft in itself, but at the same time, it feels like carrying water with a sieve, because this European carbon market is great, but it does not cover most of the emissions from European industry. My question is, what would happen if we were to introduce now, we would not impose, but Brussels would set the quota price at EUR 350 per tonne. But that is precisely the forecast that would be if Europe were carbon neutral. What would happen to Estonia and Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1314	Well, there's a lot of prognosis. Such a brutal forecast for the near future, a reliable forecast for the near future, I don't know. But this price will certainly increase in order to achieve these goals. In the context of Estonia, there are not many other companies in the emissions trading system today, apart from the big energy and cement industry, which were also mentioned here. This means that it mainly concerns the oil shale industry, to some extent also the cement industry, which for other reasons has decided to reduce production in Estonia. So if the price of the quota were to rise again, basically oil shale energy would end up more quickly. He's gonna stop anyway, just ask him how fast he's gonna do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1315	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1316	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Maybe in the meantime, we've gotten a little too far into metaphysical issues here. I'm gonna ask again and try to be more on the subject. The Estonian Electricity Industry Association is known to be a union that brings together the organisations of the electricity and energy industries operating in Estonia, and its main objective is to stand up for the common interests of the electricity industry and the energy sector both in Estonia and throughout the European Union. This alliance was established on 30 April 2004 by a number of organisations that I will not read here because I cannot do so. Anyone can look after Wikipedia for themselves and, of course, I am not responsible for ensuring that this information is correct to every single decimal place. But it is claimed to belong to the Union... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Oh, I'm sorry! A good colleague, Uno Kaskpeit, has already asked about one of the proposals of the Estonian Electric Industry Association. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I ask whether the Estonian Electricity Industry Association had any other proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1317	No, it wasn't. There are many members of the electrical industry association, but he is very much the face of Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1318	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1319	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In answering one question, you mentioned that climate change should worry the Conservatives, because they are one of the drivers of the great migration of peoples. I totally agree with that. My question is, although I know you are saying that this was not discussed in the Commission: what is your personal opinion, would all the hundreds of billions of dollars-euros used to combat this same climate warming, if they were directed towards social assistance, helping countries and all this, not give much greater effect than now, namely, to these people by creating a chance to live in their own homes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1320	This was indeed not discussed in the Commission, but I will answer that question. I think that, if we look at and analyse, that climate change scenarios, especially in those places where natural conditions for people's lives are difficult already and where there is a great deal of people, these effects of climate change, for example, on agriculture, on water availability are simply so colossal that it cannot be compensated by any socio-economic investment in these countries. The most effective way to give these peoples the opportunity to live safely and decently in their own countries is indeed to work together to keep the effects of climate change in check. In addition, it helps Estonian nature considerably, which is also very sweet to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1321	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1322	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm asking about the modernisation fund. What are Estonia's main concerns about financing the Modernisation Fund to meet its climate objectives? Can you bring out anything important?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1323	What are Estonia's main concerns? The Modernisation Fund as a whole is designed to create a separate drawer alongside the global units to help countries further invest in modernising their energy-heat systems in order to decouple their energy from [carbon emissions]. A number of different options have been envisaged in the European context. The directive also provides for the possibility that energy companies themselves, such as the same association of the electricity industry, could apply for money there, for example, to rebuild oil shale power plants or to build a new power plant, to build a wind farm or whatever, figuratively speaking. This could be applied for by companies themselves. However, the second option is that the State will use the funds of the Modernisation Fund to achieve these same objectives in the context of the national plan. With this draft, the government has found, and I consider this specific decision to be appropriate, that we are managing it, because this financial volume is not so high and its implementation as direct business support is significant in terms of risks and administrative burdens, in fact to use it in the implementation of these national plans, for example, to achieve energy saving measures in the reconstruction of buildings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1324	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1325	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Evgeny! I will now take this opportunity to ask you, as an expert on the board, a question that you certainly did not discuss in the committee, but what could be important in this context. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, is known to lead the green turn. My modest assessment of him as the German Minister for Defence is not very positive because he was unable to decisively increase and modernise the funding of the Bundeswehr. Now he's got about a thousand times the hardest job ahead of him. What chance do you think he'd have of running it and making any progress in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1326	With the support of all of us, I think these odds are high. We must believe in this because this fight against climate change is actually an existential issue for Estonia and for all the peoples of Europe, globally. We must have that faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1327	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1328	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! We do not have a common view of whether or not there is a climate crisis at all. We certainly do not have a common view of whether it can be combated if it really does exist, whether the people or something else is the cause of this potential crisis that exists. So on this issue, on the issue of CO2 trade, we certainly have a completely different starting point. But when I asked you about that 500 million, you said it was ten years from now. This is about EUR 50 million per year, broken down into ten years. When I was Minister of Finance, about 40 million euros were spoken a year, which would be lost annually from the free resources of the state budget, and would have money with a "tag" or a drawer, would only go to green business. Well, we can imagine that depending on the ideological palette of the government, the number of NGOs receiving tens of millions of euros for world-view explanation work would certainly be large, but still 50 million is a lot of money. They're wrestling today with a 60-million-dollar cut. How do you cover this hole?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1329	I do not support these cuts either. I think this is a very bad undertaking that the government has now put forward for us with a country's budget strategy. Indeed, in the present situation, to cut down on children's activities is a mess.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1330	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1331	Good manager! Good waitress! I come back to my previous question that it is clear that this politically established silk cord with which the energy sector is strangled has already done a great deal of its work. But I said that according to the forecasts, if Europe is climate-neutral, the price of the quota is somewhere 350 euros per tonne. And in 2050, where this big target is, it should be EUR 250 per tonne. But I asked [to say] what Europe would look like when the quota price is 350. If we were to move it to 350 now, we'd be right there. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1332	Thank you. No, I wouldn't have it right now. Economists and international organisations have identified the taxation of greenhouse gases as one of the least detrimental and distorting ways to make societies more environmentally friendly. This has also been suggested to many other countries and regions, with the same China, for example, already starting to implement it to a relatively limited extent. Indeed, it does not select a specific sector for which any direct payments are granted, but it provides a broader framework within which rationally acting companies make their decisions. But much of these decisions are long-term. For example, the Swedes, in cooperation with the country, are moving in the direction of making their metal industry carbon neutral. Sweden's a pretty big metal processor, right? It will still take a decade, all the necessary investments to do so. In Estonia, in the same way: if we want to guarantee energy security in the context of the storage of renewable energy connections, this will in fact require a much longer-term paradigm or a much longer-term agreement. No, I don't think it's right to do this in a second. But what is going to be the price of the quota depends very much, as you rightly pointed out, on the assumptions which sectors are inside the emissions trading system, which is the coefficient of linear reduction, I mentioned earlier, this is a very important component of just a lot of other policy choices and decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1333	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1334	Thank you. Unfortunately, this carbon trade is a two-way street. If a large part of the world does not care about this, in fact, those countries that have made this commitment simply undermine, among other things, their competitiveness in comparison with other countries. We have a nice Russia next door who only whistles at everything. But what I wanted to ask is that the draft makes it more flexible for operators to allocate emission allowances free of charge. Frankly speaking from this explanatory memorandum or this bill, I couldn't read it out, how, with what procedures and with which it is done. Why don't you describe how this is going to be made more flexible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1335	Thank you. First of all, speaking of this for the third hour, I must grieve you that my spirit begins to fade from repeating the same story for the fifth time. But indeed, the question is that, on the proposal of the Chemical Industry Association, we have included here an amendment which allows for more flexibility in the settlement of free or free credits for emissions trading in such a way that oil shale companies do not have a cash-flow hole as a result of the European Commission's procedures, which annually verify the number of free units, are lingering. Oil shale companies would be able to continue their work and offset later. This is about adding flexibility to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1336	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1337	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Trading greenhouse gas emissions and all this business around it, I pulled [theme] a little wider. Perhaps in the meantime you can approach the matter from another angle: why is it even necessary? It's a big bubble, I think. What's that for?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1338	That's what I've been talking about for a long time today. This is necessary to put European societies and businesses on the road to greening and manufacturing, and it has been very successful in this. Very successful! Indeed, this system has been impressive and the best in the world without doubt and has produced the necessary results in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and, in fact, modernising economic models. The questioner above said that you can see that we are losing competitiveness. In the very short term, we can see it as a way of reducing competitiveness by buying quotas, but in the longer term we have seen that Europe has been the right world leader in a number of carbon intensive areas thanks to the innovation that the transition to the green economy has opened up. However, look at the Americans who have not had any adequate environmental standards, which cars they produce compared to Europeans or also Asian countries that produce much more efficient and better vehicles. You don't have to take it like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1339	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1340	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When I was talking about American cars, I remembered a Social Democrat who also drove such a fancy machine a few years ago. But that's not what I was gonna ask you about. I wanted to ask you that there are winners and losers in such things. Who are the bigger winners? I doubt that these are polar bears and penguins, rather some big companies that are getting richer, some billionaires or oligarchs. Who actually wins the most financially in this greenhouse gas emissions trading and who loses?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1341	Europe's citizens will benefit most from this, as revenue from emissions trading will be received from national budgets. Two lines above sits with one gentleman; he can explain to you how it is received into that budget and how it can be used. We have discussed this quite thoroughly today. This system works in such an interesting way that these units are distributed between countries and then sold to companies across Europe. The companies pay for it, it's a cost to them, but the countries are getting richer than that. It's a brilliant thing to come up with back in the day. So if you look in there, aside from the nasty bureaucratic complexity that this entails, a colleague read out the paragraphs that cannot be understood here, it is actually very, very good and really has produced excellent results in the context of the environment. At the same time, as I said, and this has been repeatedly said by economists, it is one of the least economically depressing and unreasonably transformative or economically distorting ways to achieve environmental sustainability. It is worth supporting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1342	Mr Ossinovski, this is a very strange thing that has happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1343	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1344	Is there really no more questions? I'd really like to wait a second, because there's been a very serious debate here. But I think you've really given very good answers. Thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1345	Thanks to all the questioners, too!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1346	Now I am really looking forward to very, very active speeches, which is the second reading. Members of the Riigikogu can express their thoughts here. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair in the Riigikogu, Henn Põljaala. Please! To keep up the pace, I'll ask you right when you get here, maybe a little extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1347	I can't tell you right now, we'll see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1348	Got it. You shouldn't just stall, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1349	But, you know, thinking about it like that, I think it's a serious issue I want to talk about. I probably won't be able to do it in five minutes, and I'll probably need three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1350	Here's what we're gonna do. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1351	Is that all you got?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1352	That's all I can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1353	That's too bad. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Ossinovski for answering the questions. It lasted quite a while. The questions were good, the answers were good. Now we have come to this moment when the Conservative People's Party of Estonia must take steps to prevent Estonia from entering such a dystopic orwellic world, where each of our steps is controlled, somebody is recording, putting your biometrics, fingerprints, irises, DNA, etc. in the register. In order to avoid that, we've begun the obstruction. And to show all your dear colleagues and dear people in Estonia which side of the world the government is taking us like sheep to slaughter, which we naturally do not agree with in order to show you, I have taken along George Orwell's book Animal Farm. I think there are quite a few people on the planet Earth who don't know about it, most of them have, hopefully, read it too. Although it has been written more than 50 years ago, it is actually just as topical today. Simply technical tools for monitoring, repression, control, brainwashing, etc. have been significantly enhanced. We take you to this world with all the advice and strength of our group, you can imagine, visualize and wake up to say, 'No, we don't want this world'. So let's start at the beginning. All of this is to see draft 366 withdrawn by the government, so that the government supports democracy and freedom, as we all do, as required by our constitution. Starting reading George Orwell's Animal Farm. "The owner of the cattle farm Jones had locked the henhouse overnight, but he was so drunk he forgot to close the holes where the chickens went in and out. The lantern's light was swinging here and there as he tangled through the fence, threw his boots off his waist, fired the last pot of beer from the keg standing in the kitchen, and dragged into the bed where Mrs. Jones was snoring. As soon as the light went out in the bedroom, movement began in all the farm buildings and a wing sabin. During the day, there was a widespread message that the old Major, award-winning big white maggot, said he had a strange dream last night and wanted to tell it to other animals. It was agreed that when Jones was out of the way, everyone would gather in the big barn. The old Major (he was still called so, even though the cult was displayed under Willingdon's magnificent name) was such a respected animal on the farm that everyone willingly agreed to give up an hour's sleep time to hear what he had to say. At one end of the big barn, under the lantern hanging from the bow, the Major had already nicely replaced the straws on a similar podium. He was twelve years old, lately quite tired, but he was a former, majestic-looking pig, with an outwardly wise and benevolent fashion, even though he never had his fangs broken. Soon other animals began to arrive, taking the scene as everyone did. The first three dogs arrived, the Bell, Jessie and Pitsu, and then the pigs, who dragged the straws right in front of the podium. The chickens found a place on the windowsills, the pigeons flew to the ducks, the sheep and the cows fell behind the pigs and began to remember. Both workhorses, the Lamb and the Clomock, entered together at a very slow pace, taking special care to step on their giant fur-bush hooves, so as not to crush the smallest animals that may have been hiding under the straws. The clover was a bulky, motherly mare approaching the middle age, whose body had not actually regained its former image since it was taken down by the fourth foal. The carcase was a vast beast, almost eighteen feet high and as strong as two ordinary horses combined."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1354	Dear waitress, I'm disturbing you for a moment. I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1355	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1356	And make sure the waitress doesn't go over time. I wanted to ask you how you feel at the moment, as a result of Article 72 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, whether this is in line with this at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1357	Yeah, I'm sure it's consistent, because the atmosphere we live in, all this environment, society, it's totally in line with what I read here. That's one world, one subject, one substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1358	Got it. So please put it on the waitress two minutes ago, now the time has passed. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1359	Thank you. "The white stripe on the nose of Tümpsa made his appearance a little simple, and he didn't shine in wisdom, but everyone respected him for his determination and his enormous ability to work. After the horses came the white goat Muriel and the donkey Benjamin. Benjamin was the oldest and most grumpy animal on the farm. He spoke rarely, and then only to make some cynical remarks; for example, he could say that God had given him a blessing to repel the flies, but he would rather live without any fear or flies. He was the only animal on the farm who never laughed. When asked why, he said he couldn't see anything to laugh about. In any case, Benjamin, although he had no public record of it, was fond of the Tümpsa; Sundays they usually spent together in a small lung behind an orchard, where they ate grass side by side and never spoke. Both horses had just come to lie down when one of the young ducklings who had lost their mother, patted the barn and roamed back and forth, looking for a place where they would not be trampled. The clover set his big forelegs like a wall of ducklings in a different way, and they lay behind the wall and fell asleep immediately. At the last moment, Mollie, a silly, handsome white mare who dragged a cart on Jones, snuck in an elegant snack. He set himself up ahead and began to shake his white stop, hoping to draw attention to the plaid red ribbons. The last to come was a cat who was looking for a warmer place as usual and finally crawled between the Tükksa and the Ristiku. There, during the entire Major's talk, he was content to purr without listening to a word of what the Major was saying. Now all the animals and birds except Moses, the tamed raven, were present, sleeping on a perch in the bow. When the Major saw that everyone had taken the field nicely and was waiting with attention, he coughed up his throat and started: "Comrades, you have already heard of this strange dream I had last night. But I'll come back to that dream later. First, I have something else to say. I do not think, comrades, that I will be among you long enough, and I consider it my duty to pass on to you all the wisdom I have gathered before death. I have a long life behind me, alone in my pen I've had time to think... "
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1360	Good waitress, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1361	"... And I suppose I can say that I understand earthly life as well as any other animal now living. That's what I want to tell you. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1362	Got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1363	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1364	Your time! I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak White. However, I say that we should remain within the scope of the draft 345, pursuant to Paragraph 72 (1) of our Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. It's extremely important. Please, Mr. White!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1365	I'd ask for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1366	Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1367	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear technical staff! I would point out that if this draft is adopted at the third reading, it will reach the President and, in accordance with § 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, it will declare laws pursuant to § 107 and § 108. In fact, the most important thing here is § 107. I quote it in full: "The President of the Republic may not declare a law adopted by the Riigikogu and send it, together with an motivated decision, within fourteen days of the date of receipt, to the Riigikogu for further discussion and decision. If the Riigikogu accepts the Act sent back by the President of the Republic without amendment again, the President of the Republic shall declare the Act or turn to the Supreme Court with a proposal to declare the Act incompatible with the Constitution. If the Supreme Court declares the Act compatible with the Constitution, the President of the Republic shall declare the Act. " According to § 108, this law enters into force on the tenth day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State, unless the law itself provides for a second deadline. So, ladies and gentlemen, as you understand, the President has a pretty important role to play. And, as you know, the presidential elections are approaching, which some critics have also called the appointment of the President as a back room agreement for political parties. In any case, it is precisely these approaching presidential elections that have actually inspired us to have a wide range of discussions about how the President will still get his post. That means how he's chosen. There is a great deal to depend on it, even if it is not clearly enshrined in the law, the way in which it complies with the pre-quoted § 107, which is in fact already relevant to the procedure of this draft. Okay. As we know, many proposals have been made to change the procedure for the President's appointment. The most radical proposal that has come to me and which could be a credible proposal comes from Siim Kallas, who thinks that the positions of President and Prime Minister should be reconciled. I quote: "Little country. One less black car. " Siim Kallas then finds that, of course, the President and the Head of Government should be directly elected. Again I quote, he says, "Simple and clear. " Indeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1368	Mr. White, you're not accidentally talking about the wrong item on the agenda? The Atmosphere Air Protection Act is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1369	Of course, but it's the law that the president is declaring.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1370	This has nothing to do with presidential elections, just a section of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1371	The President's behaviour depends on the role of the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1372	Mr White, I would like to point out that § 72 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure provides that the item should remain on the agenda and, if not, the President has the right to turn off the microphone, after he has repeatedly made comments that the item will not remain on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1373	But how many are repeated? Is that the first comment now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1374	First on my part, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1375	Got it. Then I'll continue. I would say that there is certainly logic in this system of Siim Kallas. There's no way to contradict that. But this would mean that the Estonian system of governance would become a full Presidential one. This could mean that the present draft law on atmospheric air protection should perhaps be dealt with in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1376	Now there is a second remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1377	You see, even in the Estonian constitution of 1933 the government was directly elected, in addition to a state elder with great powers, a government dependent on parliament, led by the Prime Minister. However, in any European democratic country today, there is, in fact, no system where executive power is concentrated only directly on the elected Head of State. It is only in Russia and Belarus, but even there, the executive power is not the President, it is the government. It is true that this government will depend on the President, who can also disband Parliament if the activities of the candidate Prime Minister or the Prime Minister in office are not suitable for Parliament. I think this is very important. Okay. Let's move on. In the system proposed by Mr Kallas, however, the role of the executive, the President, the head of government, the people's mandate, and Parliament's role should inevitably remain marginal. More specifically, how to introduce parliamentary control and balance mechanisms so that the country remains democratic is not clear. Perhaps only with referendums often induced by citizens, as Estonia was in the Constitution of 1933 or as it is now in Switzerland. But I don't think that's what Siim Kallas meant. In any case, this would mean not only a complete overhaul of our current system from parliamentary to presidential, but also the introduction of some completely new system. This, in turn, means that the present draft will also be dealt with in a completely different way. If even wishing for it, I think, there is no way to believe that there is enough courage in our society to do so. You could also say that perhaps there is not enough avantyrism. I'll tell you myself, I don't know if I can think of this as a very good idea. There is certainly no political consensus for such a step. Now let's move on, let's move on to the next proposal. Lauri Vahtre is very critical of the specific presidential election procedure. I don't know if it's very, but certainly somewhat critical. But the direct election of his President does not admit: "If the President is "semi-powerful," then he is also fit to be elected by semi-election. Not exactly with the mandate of the people, but not only with that of the Riigikogu." Okay. Lauri Vahtre raises a rhetorical question about what would be better. The President's direct election? I suspect that this method would be popular until the very first elections and no longer. The opponents of the elected candidate would necessarily find that it was cheated that the secret services and, of course, the press were guilty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1378	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1379	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1380	Please! Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1381	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, This bill 345 is like the average of Harju. Some directives will be amended, the directive, as you know, 2018/410 will be adopted and will therefore be replaced by 2003/87/EC. "So, comrades, what kind of life is this? Let us face it: Our lives are poor, full of hard work and fleeting. We are born, we are given just enough food to keep us alive, and those of us who can do so must work to the last loss of power, and immediately when we are no longer useful, we will be brutally killed. No animal in England who is over a year old knows what happiness or idleness means. No animal in England is free. The life of animals is one of the only tribulations and slavery is the thawing truth. But is everything just nature's order? Is it because our country is too poor to secure a decent life for its inhabitants? No, comrades..."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1382	Mr. Ernits, we're talking about the law on atmospheric air protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1383	Yeah, I'm talking about the 345 bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1384	No, you're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1385	Yeah, of course I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1386	You're reading a book.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1387	I don't know, the book. Are those books? I am talking about this bill and that the movement is in the right direction. But the world's largest carbon market, within which this draft clarifies some things, accounts for only 40% of European industrial emissions. So, in fact, this whole framework covers less than half of the European carbon market. "Our farm alone could support a few dozen horses, twenty cows, hundreds of sheep, and all of them could live so well and well that it is now impossible to imagine. Why, then, do we continue to struggle in tribulation? But because people are robbing us of almost all our labor. Here, comrades, is the cause of all our troubles. It can be summed up in a single word by a person. Man is our only true enemy. Blow man and the main cause of hunger and overpowering work have been eliminated forever. Man is the only creature who consumes without self-production. A man doesn't give milk, he doesn't give eggs, he's too weak to drag, he can't run fast enough to catch a rabbit. Yet he is the master of all animals. He will put them to work, in return to give them only the little things that are necessary to keep them from starving, but he will keep the rest. Our work tills the ground.. You cows I see in front of me, how many thousand litres of milk have you given over the past year? And what about the milk that should have fed your fine calves? The last drop has gone down our enemy's throat. And you chickens, how many eggs have you laid this year, and how many of these eggs have been hatched into chicks? All the remaining eggs have been placed on the market...'
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1388	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1389	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1390	Unfortunately, I can't give it because we have a very tight agenda. Due to § 69 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and the comments made, the President has the right to limit speeches to five minutes and not to give speakers three additional minutes if the agenda is very tight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1391	But it's very important to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1392	I'm sorry I can't give you this, your time's up, five minutes' time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1393	But I still kind of want to say 345.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1394	Please, Kalle Grünthal, next! Unfortunately, you can't say any more, because five minutes is speaking time. I refer to § 69 (5). Thank you! Mr. Woodland, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1395	Paragraph 69 (5) is without prejudice to this period, the alleged comment is limited. Comment is not the norm and comment is not the one that can be relied on. In that case, we are currently breaking the Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1396	Mr. Woodland! Paragraph 69 (5) states that at the request of a speaker, the President may give an additional three minutes for the speech. He doesn't have to. I decided right now, looking at how many calls there are, and also looking at the comments that I'm using this "may" and leaving five minutes for anyone who wants to come and give a speech. Mr. Grünthal is next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1397	However, I would like to say who it concerns, this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1398	I have to close your microphone if you don't leave now, because it's Mr. Grünthal's turn to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1399	There's a chance. So please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1400	Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1401	I have a loud voice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1402	Mr. Ernits, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1403	Well, I guess so is your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1404	Maybe. Kert Kingo, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1405	I'd like to be more specific. You're now relying on the law, but maybe... I don't have it in this hall. Is it right, exclusive competence for the President of the sitting to take this decision alone, or should it be the meeting of the Riigikogu Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1406	Yes, that right shall be exercised by the President in accordance with § 69 (5). Kalle Grünthal, your call, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1407	Thank you. I'm asking for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1408	That is what I will decide when we have reached the fifth minute, whether you have remained on the agenda and how it is. We have a lot of speakers. I'm still gonna stay five minutes, otherwise we're not gonna be able to finish the calls.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1409	I'm running late right now. Your speaking time is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1410	Please tell me!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1411	You're the one who was talking!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1412	Ten seconds to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1413	Twenty-one is now. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are processing draft 345, there will be a second reading of the draft law amending the law on air protection and state fees. The purpose of this draft is to update the provisions to ensure the implementation of European Union law. Now there is such a place that European Union law applies all the time and comes and eats out our constitutional values. The principle is what we went to discuss today with Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madise, that the essence of our constitution, which should take precedence, is left only in its bare shell. This was expressed not only by the Chancellor of Justice, but also by all the ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia who participated in the meeting. Of course, this is also due to the fact that, as we know, the European Commission has introduced a new EU scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, i.e. regulations implementing the EU ETS. This is where we have practically given our right to self-determination to the European Union again. The European Commission, which does not really own one, say parliamentaryity as the European Parliament could and should have, dictates to us, the Republic of Estonia as a sovereign state, all the rights that we can do, and we must coordinate these requirements of the European Union Commission. In my opinion, taking over such rights is, in any case, another example of Estonia losing its independence. Of course, it is also sad that the European Union has also granted an implementing regulation on the Modernisation Fund. Its aim is to boost investments in support of cost-effective emission reductions and CO2 reductions. The exact same thing could be said about this: the whole draft, which also deals with trade in CO2 and emission units for which there is a trading register, operator, current account and trading account, is essentially empty, empty. In the old days, criminals were told that you were dealing with slime, dealing with air, and the goods weren't really there. That is the question of where we have come from in our business at the moment. And what's important is that we're dealing with nothing, you know, we're dealing with nothing, and that's how someone in the country gets a profit. This is one of these very vague and, at the same time, a tendency that threatens our Estonian economy and security, which is increasing and deepening in the Estonian state. I will add to this same draft the fact that, for example, the Estonian Chemical Industry Association raised the problem of the timely allocation of emission allowances for free. I understand that the union of the chemical industry cannot resist so strongly and strongly, I would say, to trade with the fluffy, and that is why it is trying to find, even to some extent, such a legal level in order not to piss off the government currently in power and reduce the subsidies involved. This whole thing is coming from the Ministry of the Environment, which offers this approach. If we look at the reasons for this, it is pointed out that Estonia is based on an exceptionally large ecological footprint per person. In fact, these claims have also been sought because it does not matter at all how big the ecological footprint is in Estonia, it is important that the European Union...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1414	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1415	Yeah, I wanted more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1416	If you're talking about a bill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1417	I'm talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1418	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1419	Thank you. The EU's carbon emissions are 9% of global emissions, which actually means that it is absolutely marginal compared to other countries in the world. If we bring aside Estonian carbon emissions, it is 0.002 or 0.003, it doesn't matter, it's practically non-existent. But what are we going to lose with this? Estonia's energy security will become absolutely non-existent. In this very Chamber last week there was Professor TalTech of Alar Kon who knew that all these turns were not in our interests, but, let's say, in the interests of third countries. This, of course, must also take into account that, in fact, a very large proportion of production has been withdrawn from Europe to third countries which are not involved in the leakage of greenhouse gases. This means that on the basis of this method, Estonia...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1420	Now we're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1421	... capacity and therefore this is a colossal trade. Thank you! I would also like to thank the President of the sitting, who has allowed more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1422	When we talk about the bill and the thing, there's always a way to talk. Anti-Semiamets, please! Although here too, colleagues, I must admit that we do indeed have many speakers and five minutes could be that time. We have had this practice before that the manager has limited time when there are many speakers. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1423	Mr President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Good socialists, wherever you are, even though we are talking about your bill! Hello, are you in the corner of smoke? Come and listen. After all, today we are talking about the matter, perhaps your draft 345, which you have also scrupulously proposed amendments to. Yeah, it's sighing, actually. I was looking for a title for my presentation, and I got to the folk talk "Rätsep Air and her lucky story." Maybe if you generalize, there'll be a bigger kind of air sale. Trade in CO2 is a major kind of air sales. It is very possible that, in history, this period will be so re-examined that Europeans and Americans began to sell hard air, tax the air, and there was no bottom at all. It was a science that went beyond the fence. So if we look at the credit trading register, including these amendments, we will not be able to get away with it. Is this CO2 end-of-world alarm clock still as hard as it's presented? Is this alarm clock that complete? Is the ocean level really rising? We've had these panics, and yes, to the point that there's so much anxiety among young people that they're in front of this house with a poster. As practical examples, what will the trade in CO2 bring? It's kind of like Ruhr's occupation by France. Germany's best economic area, industrial area, will be taken away. But we're so smart, we're occupying ourselves. Happy birthday to us! We are demolishing industries that have been built since the beginning of the Republic. In fact, already during World War I, the first studies were knocked to the ground and began to investigate what this oil shale is. Everything built up will be demolished. The core of our energy will be destroyed and seriously contradicted by the laws of physics. I like solar stations, too. I like windmills too. But we're realists now. If in January the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine, who's gonna heat these radiators in a 25-degree weather, keep those electric radiators going? No, I'm not. We're gonna need steady power, because otherwise we're gonna end up like Texas, where there's total energy chaos. What is amazing is that we are not only dealing with self-deployment and self-colonisation, but our colleagues in the Socialists and Centre Party are working on cutting our electorate into slices. They take their jobs away, throw them out of well-paid jobs in Ida-Virumaa and start selling air or go completely in peace with air sales. Ossinovski argued that yes, there is almost a consensus on these issues in the world. Maybe he believes it. I don't. You can't sell it to me. Two of the most representative Estonian academics, Anto Raukas and Endel Lippmaa, laughed at global warming, man-made... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1424	Two minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1425	Three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1426	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1427	...warmness theory. I'll give you another example of a famous Estonian abroad, Arno Arrak. Arno Arrak has a very important wealth of knowledge. It is, by the way, a member of the artist family of the Arrakute clan who entered the West and was an Estonian scientist in the US who worked in spectrochemical analysis, including Grumman Aerospace, building Apollo's lunar module in this company. He has published the book What Warming? Satellites' view of global warming." In his excellent book, which is a 92-page close scientific text, he claims that there is no rise in ocean levels. He thinks all climate science is broke. However, the articles of such a representative scientist were not published. Is this free science? Will you soon have to go around with a sweatshirt that says "Science is Free" that please publish the articles of one of the most representative scientists next to alarmism, next to panic, alongside the presentation of a biblical vision of the end of the world? Is that a good science? I seriously doubt that. So let's stay sober, let's hear the arguments of skeptical scientists who only recently belonged to the mainstream. I don't know how suddenly the most representative scientists became the bypass. What tricks did that accomplish? So I suggest you keep your eyes open. We and the International Research Area are not consensually the climate through man-made warming. What's there to deny, it's all going to be cartoon and not just about the end of the world. For my father-in-law, one cowman, one last cowman in the municipality of Nõo, a message came from the Ministry that you should now pay the tax for the methane production of your cow. I was amazed that it was this far away. Luckily, the Ministry canceled it. But if we look back in the future, the jokers probably have a lot to talk about how the nutterman in Nõo Municipality had to start paying for the methane that was released by his cow. Surely it goes into the same cup of many other misconceptions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1428	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1429	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, indeed, we have talked long and wide about such an important thing in our lives as the atmosphere. Of course, it is up to all of us to maintain this atmosphere in every way, to protect it in every way, because the atmosphere is actually very important to all of us. We all know that the earth's atmosphere, or atmosphere, is a gas layer surrounding the earth, dominated by a mechanical mixture of nitrogen, oxygen, and argon. The relative amount of these gases is constant and constant. That's a fact. When we discuss here how we can protect the atmosphere, it is all very good and very beautiful. But we have to ask ourselves if we can protect something that big and if there's anything we can do for something that exists in itself in its size like this. But let's get back to what was said in this hall today. In fact, I actually liked the amendment tabled by the honourable colleague, the Social Democrat Jevgeni Ossinovski, who said very clearly that if we want to do something, we must do it 100%. He's absolutely right about that. He said that, under our current law, the government must invest at least 50% of the emissions trading units in achieving the climate goals, and our government will only rely on this minimum requirement, even though it has the full freedom to do much more to protect the same atmosphere that we have all talked about here today. This 50% is a minimum requirement for a directive. For some reason, in this directive, we are using this minimum requirement. Yet we know that there are many other directives where we are more Orthodox than the Pope. We comply with these directives, as was said in the old days, with German precision. Even if they are sometimes harmful to us, we will fill them many times more than the European Commission really demands of us. But look, when we talk about the atmosphere that is so important to all of us, because it actually determines how our life is going in this world, what our weather is, what air we breathe, how UV radiation works, this is the minimum requirement. That's where I'm with Jevgeni Ossinovski, surprise-surprise, very much in agreement. On a matter that is important to all of us, the government should be guided by the maximum requirement, i.e. we should really take into account the seriousness of the climate crisis, as Mr Ossinovski pointed out in his amendment, as well as Estonia's exceptionally large ecological footprint per person. This is, of course, the kind of thing where we may have a difference of opinion about the size of this footprint. But I totally agree with him that if we want to do something, we have to do it 100%. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1430	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1431	We're making big speeches here, we're adopting laws. We're gonna pass laws on the amendment of the law, whatever. We're only doing this 50%. Are you kidding me? If you do, if you protect the atmosphere, we'll totally protect it. We will protect 100%, and we will take 100% of the measures that we want to see in the law. Perhaps I fully agree that, at the level of the law, there must be a requirement to use all the revenue from the emissions trade, which has been so much talked about here today, indeed to achieve climate objectives, one of which is a very important part, namely this law on the protection of atmospheric air. Quite rightly, Mr Ossinovski brought the issue of social justice into this. Social justice is also very important in matters relating to the atmosphere, because we are all equal to each other under the atmosphere. His proposal to take advantage of the revenue from the quota resources and thereby to level out the impact of higher energy prices on households is a truly good and noble proposal. I support it 100%. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we are doing something, if we are here today and we are giving these speeches ardently, and we are always fighting for something, for our worldview, for our opinions, then we are doing it 100%. Let's do it 100%, let's fight. Right now, we're fighting for atmospheric air cleanliness, and we're fighting for something else. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this one hundred percent! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1432	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1433	There's a piece of writing like "Pillow" where Sander said, "Let's get some air, papa, air doesn't cost anything. " We actually see that air costs and costs a lot. Today, we are looking at this bill, the law amending the law on atmospheric air protection and the law on state fees, the second reading of which we are conducting. The draft aims to update the provisions to ensure the implementation of EU law. The European Commission has introduced a new EU scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, implementing regulations. We have been in contact with atmospheric air and emissions here in Estonia for years. First of all, these prices were relatively well in place for our Ida-Viru County. The municipalities with the corresponding production received relatively good amounts, which were able to make a great deal of money in the regions where the allowances were received. However, the whole process was that this problem was constantly and year after year narrowed down in terms of the reduction in tax revenue. That's practically minimum for today. Those regions where pollution has actually survived can no longer make a capital injection in this respect so that they can overcome these problems. How do we proceed? There is a certain capacity now that the state can share this money. Today we have heard that the sums are again divided by 50%: 50%, half goes practically to make a green turn, and half goes to the state that it can use this money for certain purposes. Of course, we in Ida-Virumaa would like to see more money received than planned. For example, the Electricity Producers' Association proposed to complement the draft with a provision which would also allow large individual projects to apply for funding from the Modernisation Fund and ensure equal treatment between national support schemes and individual projects. It was stressed that potential national support schemes to be financed should aim at providing additional support to achieve the objectives of equal treatment and national support schemes. I'll take three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1434	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1435	It would certainly be necessary to channel these funds towards meeting the objectives of the same aid schemes in Ida-Virumaa. I am not so blue-eyed that I think oil shale production will continue in the same volume as today. Certainly, this thing will be forced into the frame and the use of oil shale will be stopped in the volume it is today, but it should certainly not go into these resources until the last word has been said by the producers. Oil shale-producing companies already offer innovative solutions to use oil shale and oil shale oil in the future in a much more rational and emission-free way. But if we do not support this process, these companies will be shut down and then there will be no one else to develop the capacity that our own companies are putting their own resources on right now. Yes, the speaker who presented the explanatory statement also said that let private companies go, let them do these solutions! It is not as simple as that, because investment is relatively high. If we do not support these companies for these same allowances, what else do we support them for? And if we do not support them and bring out new innovative solutions, we will eventually lose this resource and its capacity. We have TalTech scientists who are dealing with this problem, we have an oil shale competence centre in Ida-Virumaa, who day after day is looking for these solutions. Appropriate equipment has already been developed, although these are test equipment, but this shows that this is possible, it is also possible to clean oil shale oil using hydrogen. You just have to work and fight for it. This is what the Riigikogu is for to find the right solutions to make good use of our own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1436	Merry Aart, please! Let's have a look. Let's get started.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1437	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When we listened to the first two items today, I came to the conclusion for myself that we have actually become very superficial, personalised. We don't mean the goal, we don't set out the goal, we don't show what the result is. Nor does it talk about the need for this law that we accept in society. Maybe it's time we started thinking about it when we introduced the law. Maybe it's a matter of introducing the law. Let's think about it. Now I come to this law. CO2 reduction, very nice words, the whole society goes on the run, everyone knows it's a terrible good thing. But I wonder if we've really analyzed these things, whether we know what's gonna happen to wind generators or wind generators blades in 20 to 30 years. Do we know how warm the climate is thanks to solar panels? We know that the climate is up to 2.5 degrees warmer than it is around the solar panels and below. If there are so many, do they affect the climate or not? Do we know what happens to electric car batteries? Do we store them in the same way that Raadi had his tires stored, that someday someone would wonder what would happen to them? If we come up with something, if we make laws, do we think about socio-economic analyses? I have not seen any proper socio-economic analyses so that it can be said that a political decision is made on the basis of such analyses, here they are negative and here they are positive. We have to choose the golden middleway. Let me give you an example of this law. The part of the text entitled "Decision on a shared obligation' is replaced by the part entitled "Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council... or Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council...'. A good colleague, Paul Puustusmaa, also drew attention to this. Maybe it's time to start writing the laws so people can understand them. I remember the time when people were very seriously discussing (I am a zootechnic) whether cows should be punched in the ass or put a plastic bag on their noses so they don't pollute nature. There's nothing new under the sun. Everything goes up and down. So is it here. I remember the time when the law could be read by an ordinary person with a higher education and he understood what it was about. Perhaps we need to start writing the laws in such a way that the normal reader can understand this law without being directed from that point to that point in the regulation of the European Parliament and from there again to that point in the Council regulation. That's all I'd like to say. Maybe we'll start thinking about why we're here, why we're making our own laws, and what's the result of these laws. Let's take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1438	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1439	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! For my introduction, I will read the opinion of one of the members of the Tallinn Council, the thoughts he had in this regard when the programme "Climate-neutral Tallinn 2035" was discussed at the Tallinn Council on 3 June. I read without embellishment, in the pure form it says. "In yesterday's meeting of the Tallinn Council, we fought climate madness. It seems that most politicians and people in Europe, Estonia and Tallinn live, as always, in delusions, in bubbles made up by globalists, because man's ability to lower the temperature of the oceans by -2 degrees seems to be a clear utopia. The plan "Climate-neutral Tallinn 2035′′ provides for a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. A powerful goal, the poisonous greens say that it is less ambitious, but there are no preconditions for fulfilling it. First of all, the wider electoral position of Tallinn and the whole society is to happily carry out these changes at the expense of its own well-being and lifestyle change, is an unthinkable issue, as the result may be mass re-poverty and other social consequences. Secondly, there is a shortage of money needed in the order of 10 x more. The technological gap is striking, according to Deputy Mayor Riisalu, the backbone of Tallinn's public transport will be gas buses for a long time, but trams, express trams, electric trains and other environmentally friendly electric transport developments will be stuck behind dozens of obstacles. However, there is not enough biogas for gas buses, as the factory does not need Tallinn (1/3 of Estonia). Battery and hydrogen fuel technologies are still in their infancy. The battery of a truck or bus currently weighs 4-5 tonnes and charges 7 hours. The problem of disposal of old unfit batteries has not been solved, 145 million electric car wrecks are around the world, the charging grid is extremely inadequate. As energy needs are increasing, the rapid contraction of the oil shale industry can cause serious problems both in Tallinn and in the whole Republic (renewable energy instability, expensive import electricity, etc.) The need for energy and the ability to sit in candlelight are not excluded at all. About 15% of the Soviet residential fund has been insulated. At what cost will the reduction in greenhouse gases be -40%? Are we banning the transport of fossil fuels (in democratic conditions)? Why don't we ride the maggots in winter? Dealing with low heating in the winter? Let's deal with the loss of income, life regress? Allow me to doubt it." If I sum up now and give my opinion, I will first say that I have not chosen a side here in the fight. I am not passionate, say, a champion of the climate or a champion of global warming, and I am not a fighter against it. But let's see how we decide without a long perspective. Take, for example, those ELMO cars which, with great pride, were presented to us in the media, how we made a very useful deal, thinking only of a few years when these ELMO cars may have served their purpose for CO2. What's become of them now? Now they're just standing, gathering in some kind of parking lot. Has anyone investigated the damage they cause, the pollution of the environment? This is no longer a problem for anyone, for at first the great lights and whistles have declared how we are great champions of the natural environment. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1440	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1441	And that's how we do it all the time. Let's go with the big hurrah with what somebody's making up out of either boredom or a stranger's life. We also have to go with the media cameras and the big lights and whistles to pick out individual plastic bottles from the water bodies, showing how we care about our environment and clean our water. At the same time, the waters of Asian countries drown in plastic bottles. I believe that many have seen these pictures or have visited them and seen what is happening in the Indonesian coastal resorts in Thailand, Cambodia or India. This means that if we are ardently standing up for the natural environment here, if it has been Estonian [human] for decades, who is cleaning after himself, who is not throwing things into the water, then at the same time in another part of the world, Asia, is simply being polluted. Where's the idea here now? That's what I don't understand. I'm trying to get my mind on this. We are fiercely fighting in this area of the Earth, where this problem does not really exist, except for individual bottles or individual bones, while Asia is so oversaturated by pollution. No one goes to Gretake and no one picks up these bottles and makes big movies and shows. That is why I get the impression that this whole climate struggle is just some sort of new enthusiasm for inclusion, because at least what is happening in our country seems completely unthinkable. In extreme cases, only one moment or a short term is intended. Decisions are taken that do not have any ground in our society or any point of touch; we simply do not have it. However, we Estonians are still the ones who have garbage cans in every corner of the city, we do not throw crap. Our home and our culture are such that we don't throw crap in front of the door, out. And we are those most passionate fighters! A place of thought for everyone: what are we fighting for and do we even need to fight for something here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1442	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1443	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft updates the provisions to ensure the implementation of European Union law. The European Commission has introduced new regulations implementing the EU scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. The European Union has also issued an implementing regulation on the Modernisation Fund. Their aim is to boost investments in support of cost-effective emission reductions and CO2 reductions. Estonia has also joined the objective of climate neutrality in the European Union, but the different starting positions of the Member States must be taken into account when reaching it. Member States should also have the flexibility to decide on the reduction of emissions. The creation of a fair transition fund is welcome, but the distribution key for oil shale funding is currently discriminatory compared to other fossil sectors. However, the problems and challenges in these sectors are similar. I certainly agree that we will eventually join and reduce, but at this point, as long as the oil shale is underground, it must be mined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1444	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1445	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, What am I protesting? But there's something to protest against. Good friends, guardians of the country, like the Houseman, a good colleague, we still love to say here. First of all, I object to the fact that the Board of the Riigikogu restricts the right of the members of the Riigikogu to vote. Yes, I know, based on paragraph 69 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, that is the right. But it still doesn't allow it to do well in an unequal way that if someone can talk to 5 + 3, somebody else can't get 5 + 3.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1446	Mr. Woodland! You're also playing with fire. The law of atmospheric air is currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1447	Yes, speaking of this law on atmospheric air, I want to emphasise that by fighting for the atmosphere of our Earth, we must not forget the atmosphere of our Riigikogu. I cannot help but point out that it is a serious temptation to oppress Aristotle, who has once said that man is by nature a political animal. This is a clue to why I do not understand why we are not allowed to quote a very important and consonant work, George Orwell's Animal Farm, whose anniversary was yesterday when 72 years had passed since it was issued. But now I'm going back to the law itself, Bill 345. Here too, the law on atmospheric air is enough and much to protest against. I didn't start it in vain, I didn't start it when I told my good colleague Ossinovski what you guys were doing. You are dealing with legislation, the norm of which is incomprehensible to both the authors of the law and the members of the Commission, no one understands it. Once again, let's read a single sentence of this amendment to the law: "... the results submitted must correspond to the prudential level set out in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/2066 on the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/2067 on data verification and accreditation of verifiers pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 334, 31.12.2018, p. 94 I ask once again: who is subject to such laws, whether laws are made for people, or for machine translation, or who is supposed to work with such a norm? Let's keep going. I asked the honourable colleague Ossinovski that, so, now, the section of the law, the section of the same law, and the word'standard' is replaced by'standard series', I asked then, well, well, what is this standard series? Indeed, the clue in the explanatory memorandum is that why this standard series was introduced there and the indication was with reference to ISO. So where was he now? In short, ISO was some kind of 20... Yeah, you can't find that ISO. In short, there was an ISO whose meaning and the meaning of the series of standards could not be explained to me by the Members of the Commission, in this case Mr Ossinovski. And that's impossible. Speaking of the same law on atmospheric air itself, yes, I want to refer to an important fact. We've got poison greens foaming all over it. Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1448	Please! Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1449	It highlights how our climate is significantly deteriorating and the number of greenhouse gases has increased considerably. However, since 2013, the number of scientific articles proving that this is not true has increased more and more, but is demagogic and overexploited. The articles stress that the worst-case scenario for climate warming is not going to happen, fortunately, because climate warming has slowed down. Although greenhouse gas emissions are still increasing all the time, there is no worse scenario ahead of us. This article comes from the science magazine Nature Geoscience, which was published in Estonia as early as 2013. These articles have continued to grow. We're in trouble, friends. I'm sorry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1450	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1451	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting with some personal impressions of clean air, we can also say atmospheric air. In 1990, I was able to travel to Mongolia. Mongolia is known to be a country we know as a steppe country and a country with extensive desert areas: the Gobi Desert, the Taklamakani Desert, some smaller desert areas. I was surprised when I was told there, at the beginning of July, that well, at the right time you arrived here because we ended the dust storms just a while ago, that never come here in May, at the beginning of June, because then the air is dusty thick, we all walk around, towels in front of our faces, and it's really hard to breathe. It was a surprise to me of that, even 30 and more years ago. What it means is it's hard to breathe, the air is dusty. We in Estonia are absolutely not imagining this. Another experience comes from the same region of the world. True, the distance there is so colossal that it seems that they're all close together, but they're not. This is China, where I experienced what industrial emissions in the atmosphere meant in Shanghai. It was 1994. Really, the air was thick with industrial emissions. Today, the situation there, by the way, has improved very strongly. These are two examples of what we may be [it is difficult to understand] here in Estonia, where more than half of the country's area is covered with forest or in some way with greenery. Foresters say it's not a forest, it's a tree plantation, it's a bunch of bushes and everything. But, well, it is still a green area and more or less 60% of Estonia's surface is covered with it. Since our big city, the only bigger city in Tallinn, is on the shores of the sea, where the sea winds neutralise all the dust, industrial emissions and exhaust gases of the city, it is difficult to understand what kind of shortness of breath may be in other regions of the world where such favourable rates include a small population, which is a very positive indicator for air purity. In this sense, unfortunately, I have to opt for a little bit for my groupmates who say we're dealing with shit here. We don't do shit like that. The problem as such is still born from the practical conditions in those regions of the world where the starting points are very different from those we are used to. In this sense, I fully understand the efforts of the European Union, the European Commission and also certain leading European countries to make progress in the cleanliness of atmospheric air. I can say that, indeed, I have also experienced in the Ruhr region of Germany that, depending on the direction of the wind and the season, there may be some places where it is quite contaminated air. Can I have a little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1452	A minute, two?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1453	Two, if you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1454	Two, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1455	Then we could talk a little bit about the bill. Yeah, time runs, and I forgot to raise all kinds of war memories. Coming back to this... Not even coming back, but coming back to the bill, I say that the draft certainly deserves to be supported in principle. However, what really gives rise to some uncertainty and has already led to some uncertainty in me and we have heard here, in the case of our colleagues, that there is also trade in CO2 quotas in them. It's an Abracadabra, it's a classic air trade. We are accustomed to using this saying, even at the end of the Soviet era, there was a discussion of how it is not possible to boil more powerful soup on one side of the boiler. Now we see that trading CO2 quotas, just as it is possible to boil stronger or thinner soup on the edge of a boiler. In fact, if we still take the planet's point of view, the planet's atmosphere is one ecosystem, it is not possible to boil a boiler on one side with a stronger or thinner soup. In this sense, I would say that there is now a place of thinking and perhaps a place of debate still still, and not only a place of debate in this Chamber, but also a place of debate in the European Parliament, the Directorates of the European Commission. In short, in those places where initiatives, drafts, directives are initiated, developed and submitted to Member States for approval or, in some cases, a tantrum. I am quite convinced that, alright, if we also adopt this draft, we can basically take the poison, that atmospheric air will be dealt with further and that we will have various other drafts and initiatives to discuss in this Chamber, the approval of directives. Let's think about what position Estonia should take with regard to trading this same CO2 quota.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1456	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1457	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Life is full of interesting coincidences, and it seems that it is quite true to say that everything comes to you when the time is right. I have been following this subject in a rather neutral manner, although nature, especially pure nature, has always been very important to me personally, but I have not been able to see beyond my personal perspective. In this sense, despite the situation, what has been heard during the debate on this draft has been interesting and educational for me. I note in particular the rapporteur, who, despite the state we have at the moment, gave meaningful answers and was very professional. The following I'm saying is more of a personal perspective, but I thought it was important to mention it. My question was answered by the waitress that we should not, however, play the rake, but that we should contribute to these green issues and, although two large countries, as he said, make the world go in the right direction optimistically, and things get better. Unfortunately, I do not fully share this optimism. The first reason is in this price, both directly and indirectly, what it will bring to our people. Borrowing from the previous speaker: it is really not possible to create cleaner air in one region of the world if most do not contribute. So we should review the pace of our engagement and, above all, look at the comprehensive analysis. Some alarming observations. Clearly, dealing with green topics has become a source of service for large groups. This shows that financial and economic interests are involved, not only in nature. The second thing I notice is that the subject is solved quite typically in isolation. I also very much miss the economic and, in particular, socio-economic effects mentioned by some of the previous speakers. We were talking about Ida-Viru. Just a moment ago, I looked at an article in Postimees that describes how we do not resolve things in a comprehensive way, because at the same time as we are talking here, there is a message that an infringement procedure has been opened against Estonia, that we do not keep our protected forests. I have not seen the analysis involve security aspects. Energy security first, but security issues also come to an end, especially with regard to social aspects. It's a place of concern. This shows that the analysis is not comprehensive and that there are probably things, the consequences that, when we are dealing with it, may surprise us badly. I am thinking in particular of the economic security of families. These are all beautiful and necessary subjects, but it is still the duty of the state and of us here to worry about the well-being of our people, not to comfort them with another version of the coming bright future. A good example was how recently, on 19 May, we had here a development paper, TAIE: R &amp; D, innovation, entrepreneurship in the same way... Can I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1458	A few minutes? Two minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1459	I was interested, above all, in the way it talks about defence industry and military science studies and their use. I couldn't find a syllable in there. It seems to me that the same is true of these climate and green issues. It has become a matter in itself, although the subject is important, I do not dispute it at all. So I call for attention. Perhaps also what good colleague Paul said earlier about the language that it is a complete labyrinth and, as we know, it is very difficult to find the right path in the labyrinth. Like many other issues, it is clear here that a very clear bureaucratic machine has grown on climate issues. In the same way, we have a large group of NGOs in Estonia for whom it is a source of service. Questions are being attacked, questioners are being tagged. But the subject is important, the subject is complex and I think that this attitude should be different and all questions should be answered to ensure that these decisions are of high quality. There are many questions here, such as the cost of technologies, which will be the price for consumers of consumer technology. Is it really true that in the future, the middle class will have to give up its maneuvering ability because no one can buy a car anymore? We should find answers to the questions. The subject is important and I think that together we will come to smart solutions, and the cost of this is not the economic well-being of the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1460	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1461	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1462	Let's start and then we'll see how you're doing, maybe you can handle five.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1463	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to take this opportunity and I would like to thank my good colleague, Mr Evgeni, for the very comprehensive and enlightening approach to the question. In fact, this partly ties in with the discussion of a key national issue that we have just had when we discussed energy security, because all three are very closely linked: the environment, energy production and energy security. From this complex I would now like to talk a little bit about and try to bring, at the end of the day, the perspective of the Estonian oil shale industry, in the context where we are now. CO2 trade. What about it? In theory, this could work if it were to cover the whole world, i.e. it would not be a 'local' project of the European Union. But as such, he does not have the full strength, as such he does not fulfill his purpose. A good colleague, Mr Evgeni, spoke very well here that there are countries in the world that are actually very arrogant about environmental problems. He brought out Russia and Brazil. In fact, China also has very serious problems. Although China has officially declared that it wants to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, it does not really intend to do so in the next ten years. There's hypocrisy here. For example, one of the most recent figures in National Geographic was a very good map of the world, which highlighted air pollution by continents. Northern India, Mongolia and also large Chinese areas were practically black; environmental pollution in these regions is very serious. Now I will go to the next issue and try to look at energy production in the wider sense. So where's the way out of the world? Of course, it is very positive that we are developing wind energy and solar energy, but right now, at least in the next ten years, we have a technological problem that we cannot maintain this energy. So these energy sources aren't stable. We also need some stable energy sources. What are they? It is, of course, nuclear energy. Chernobyl and Fukushima have been a major backlash to nuclear energy. But in the hope that there will be new, fourth generation melted salt reactors, we could actually develop nuclear technology further. This is one of the possible perspectives for Estonia, too, if we come with smaller power reactors. But on a global scale, the solution is still a controlled thermonuclear reaction. This is what could solve this problem in this century, because it is a long problem. It is being dealt with in Europe. CERN is working on this, but it is clear that the strength of a civilization, let alone a country, depends primarily on energy production. These civilizations, in this case, a European civilization that is unable to produce enough energy - Europe's energy production has decreased over the last ten years - cannot compete on a global scale either. That's just the way it is, and there's nothing to do. Now a little bit of energy security. I'll give you Germany, for example. Germany has made a number of major decisions. Germany has first banned nuclear power, basically shutting down the last reactors, no energy coming from there, and now Germany is also going to stop producing coal-based energy. What happens then? Germany will become completely dependent on Russian gas and it will pose a very serious security threat to us. Finally, if Germany is so dependent on Russian gas that shutting it down would essentially stop Germany's energy economy, then Germany is in great difficulty, for example, in the event of a military conflict, to support us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1464	Two minutes extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1465	Yeah, I'd be happy if I could.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1466	Please! Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1467	This is where we get back to our home campus. If Germany has such big problems, how do we solve our problems? It is clear that, as long as the Auvere station has a lifetime, we must keep it in operation as a basically backup power plant so that, in cases where the wind and sun do not cover the need, a stable energy system can be maintained at all. It is clear that we will not get over it or around it. And it's clear that as long as we have oil shale, we use it. The current phase is mainly energy production. Obviously, we're reducing it. We will gradually reduce it and replace it in the second phase with oil production, which is much less polluting to the environment. There's no point in being a Pharisee here either. Clearly, if we do not produce oil shale oil, which is mainly used in marine fuel, then it is produced by someone else. We should keep doing this. But, of course, this phase will end at some point, and then what? The final phase is actually the chemical industry, i.e. the chemical industry will not disappear and the need for chemical products will not disappear. Of course, our scientists will be able to innovate on how to make oil shale better worth it. This is our so-called three-phase future. It would make sense that we use oil shale, but at the same time we constantly reduce its environmental footprint. It would be so-called our kind of home way forward, how can we solve the problems we have in this complex? But thank you! That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1468	Please, Urmas Reitelmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1469	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable listeners in the hall and in the homes! I'm starting with a personal experience in the late 1980s. I first came to Finland, and I was amazed that the air in Helsinki was clean compared to the air in Tallinn. When I first looked at the night sky in Finland, I suddenly discovered that the stars were just as close as they were, they were brighter and clearer. Upon returning to Soviet Estonia, the first thing was the indescribable smell that floated over the Soviet capital of Estonia when Georg Otsa stepped down. I certainly believe that the protection of atmospheric air is essential and has a direct impact on our health and quality of life. I'm green by nature, it's not hard for me to pick up the dirt lying on the ground and put it in a trash can. Once, when I was living in a floor house, which was covered in garbage bins by life's shutters, who scattered all the dirt, Reitelmann gathered all the dirt during the winter alone in the spring. My record was a six-gallon garbage bag. The rest of the people in the house watched, wondering and drinking coffee in the morning. But I'm not very poisonous and I don't believe in the theory of man-made warming. Why don't I believe it? There are very simple scientific data. For example, Greenland's ice studies say that 10,000 years ago the Earth's climate was 2 degrees warmer than today when we say that the industrial revolution has raised the temperature by 1 degree. As a history enthusiast, I also know that in Viking times the sea was open, the Viking ships sailed all the time, the navigation period lasted 12 months, but later the cooling season came. This is the usual cycle of global warming and cooling. When during the Northern War King Karl's troops crossed the Danish Straits to Denmark, they did not use ships, they crossed the ice. It was that simple. We also know that it was possible to skate on Dutch canals during winter. I am absolutely certain that the Earth's distance from the sun, the axis of Earth's rotation, its angle and the ocean of the world are the ones that actually affect the climate. Now let me give you another example of what my Swedish friend, who is a colonel of the King of Sweden, told me. The Swedes in Mali, where the Estonian contingent also serves, have a small unit the size of a battalion. As the Swedes do, wherever the Swedish king's army goes, they take their little Swedish: Swedish customs, Swedish customs. Sweden's general staff had a serious debate on what to do with the garbage. At first, it was thought that, well, this garbage should be brought to Sweden by military transport planes and used there somehow, sorted, whatever. Of course, it would have been sorted garbage. Then they found it more reasonable to give work to local people to let them deal with this garbage. I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1470	Will two minutes be enough? Please! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1471	Thank you. Somehow they had a suspicion that this garbage wasn't gonna get to the right place, and they were tracking the nigger who drove that garbage truck out of the army. And it didn't, because the far-sighted flame and the pillar of smoke showed that the man simply poured the burden of the self-crawler into the ditch and set it on fire. In the end, it is crucial that we keep our internal energy security clean, but our energy security is insanely instigated and instigated by some kind of European Commission for some ridiculous 400 million would not be destroyed. There are two important things in the world in view of the future scenario: food security and energy security. We have an excellent energy resource, we have oil shale science at Tallinn University of Technology, we have trained chemists, we have trained miners. If we finish this, as the Chairman of the Board of Eesti Energia recently announced, in a few years' time, we will have a social disaster. As much money as the Germans have to help their disaster victims, Estonia is far from having. And not at all, this 400 million is not a ring of any kind. The government has no plan whatsoever, except for the suicidal goal of destroying our energy security. This is absolutely unacceptable, and the Conservatives are fighting it to the last drop of blood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1472	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1473	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about the law on atmospheric air protection and the law on the amendment of the state fee law. I, too, must acknowledge Mr Ossinovski, who gave very thorough and meaningful answers to the questions that came before the floor. But speaking of our air, which is also indirectly linked to this whole draft and to the regulation of CO2 in the European Union, we must first say that Estonia's air is one of the best in Europe. Finland and I are constantly among the first three in terms of the purity of our air. There are certainly some particles, which are more and less, but generally we can say that everything in Estonia is quite good in air quality. Now I come to the subject and I'm going to talk a little bit about carbon and carbon leakage. It's a big problem, actually. The same CO2 trade that we are talking about here today has created a situation where the European Union is thinking about how to prevent carbon leakage, i.e. that large industries are not going out of Europe: the steel industry, the glass industry, the cement industry, which is an important branch, the chemical industry in the future, and it is already affecting the food industry. This problem is huge for Estonian entrepreneurs and Europe-wide. Coming to this moment, I don't think it's a big surprise to anyone that we're dealing with a shortage of building materials. When we read in the paper that a cargo ship coming from China, for example, with plaster screws, which we all need to build, turns halfway to America instead of coming to Europe, we need to look at the past for why. One reason is that we have strangled our heavy industry in Europe with these same carbon quotas and we have taken the metallurgical industry out of Europe to other countries where it does not work. Maybe we can play Pope's pope here, but somewhere this pollution will still be generated. That doesn't mean we don't have to preserve nature. I think there is no one here who would say that there is no need to preserve the natural environment and that it does not matter. No doubt, I think we all agree. Estonians are very good at preserving the natural environment. But there's another side to the coin. This is not the solution if we move industry out of Europe, undermine our competitiveness, also in Estonia, and push these problems into developing countries. That's not the solution. That is the situation where you need to think very wisely before you start taking these steps. When I was Minister for the Environment, I supported the idea, and I did not mind putting 100% of the CO2 quota into the development of sensible environmental projects. For the more environmentally friendly industry, transport, hydrogen solutions, hydrogen trains, even for the insulation of houses, to support the things we need in our daily lives, people need a home, businesses need the development of new technologies. Instead of taking over old technologies and putting electricity into railway development, perhaps we should think about hydrogen development. Why not support science too? Science must be supported in order, for example, to develop synthetic fossil fuels so that we can continue with relatively similar technologies in the future. But let's make these fuels out of natural-friendly, clean resources left over in the industry. Such technologies exist, but they are still relatively expensive. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1474	Will two minutes be enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1475	Yeah, thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1476	Please, two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1477	At this point, I would like to emphasise that the steps that we are taking and are debating must be reasonable for people to come along with these steps. No one is opposed to improving our conservation and support, but people must be given time and businesses must be given time to make all these steps acceptable and take place within a reasonable period of time. As we know, no large ships or tankers will be turned on site. The same is true with regard to energy and climate issues, greenhouse gas regulation and quota reduction and this pressure on businesses. It must be a very sensible, thoughtful and thoughtful action, otherwise we may be saved from the rain. It is simply from my experience in life that we Europeans often have a rather two-faced attitude. Having seen strong European companies throw their garbage from ships into the territorial waters of developing countries to talk about how environmentally friendly and good they are in their own country and Europe, I think that we all have reason to look in the mirror here in Europe and to think about whether we are always following what we are saying or perhaps not. Thank you. Again, please! I wanted to say that on behalf of the EKRE Group, I propose that the procedure be suspended and this proposal has also been transmitted digitally to the Riigikogu Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1478	Okay, I got it. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1479	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1480	Well, let's start with five minutes, and then we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1481	I want to protest against the fact that our group members have not been given extra time during the negotiations. I know that the Head of the Riigikogu has a relatively broad discretion, but I strongly recommend not to go to restrict the right of the members of the Riigikogu during the negotiations in the Riigikogu. The train station used to be labeled "You win a minute, you lose a life." I'd say you win three minutes in one place, lose 30 minutes in another place. Will that get you closer to the end of the trial? I am also very disturbed that the President of the Riigikogu has made comments on the content of the speeches made by the members of the Riigikogu who took the floor during the negotiations. It's totally inappropriate. Nothing in the Rules of Procedure of our Riigikogu shows that the Head of the Riigikogu has the right to intervene in the content of the negotiations. What a member of the Riigikogu says about this remote control is guaranteed by his free mandate. We can talk about anything from here, whatever we want. Indeed, we have been given good practice by a member of the Riigikogu and our traditions say that we should talk about matters relating to the bill, but if the talk goes beyond this bill, it is the decision of the speaker himself. Why are these stories going beyond here today? I said immediately during the first item from here, which is why we are dealing with the whole agenda here today, as we are dealing with it. If anyone thinks that reading Animal Farm is not related to item 345 on this item, he is wrong. All items on today's agenda are related to Bill 366 or ABIS. We wouldn't be here, we wouldn't be making speeches, we wouldn't be taking breaks if it wasn't for coalition parties today to ram through bill 366. So everything, absolutely all the drafts that we are dealing with here today, is linked to the fact that ABIS is on the agenda and it is being pushed through. I do not agree that the person in the Riigikogu can be told what to say or what not to say. This cannot be said either by the President, by the group or by anyone at all. In order to introduce it, we will start a discussion on ABIS. Once the author of Animal Farm wrote another book, it's 1984. This book was about a dystopian totalitarian society, a monitoring society. This surveillance society is getting to us. In this surveillance society, there was a camera in every room, there were cameras on the streets, everyone was always watching, there were cameras at work, everyone was snitching. Of course, if someone made a mistake that the regime didn't like, people just disappeared from that mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1482	Dear colleague Helme, I will interrupt you for a moment and count it on giving you time. But you as a member of the board and all other members of the Riigikogu should be aware of § 72, which says: "If a waitress, speaker or questioner deviates from the agenda, the President of the sitting demands that the matter be referred back to the agenda. If the President's request is not met, the President shall interrupt the removal of the report, the statement or the question from the microphone.';
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1483	We can try it, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1484	Dear colleague Helme, I am not going to turn off your microphone. I merely point out that the President of the sitting has a duty to comply with § 72 (1). Here you go! Atmospheric Air Protection Act, you're welcome to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1485	Yeah. Please, take into account my speech, where I said why we have such speeches here, as we have to. And please, consider that your remark has been taken into account. And now, "It was a cold, clear April day, the bells were now beating thirteen. Winston Smith, a chin pressed against his chest to defend himself against the cutting wind, quickly slipped through the glass door of the Winner House, but not fast enough to prevent the sand-mixed dust from coming with him. The stairwell smelled like boiled cabbage and old ragmattes. At one end there was a colored poster attached to the wall, which was too large for the interior space. It represented only one huge face more than a metre wide: the face of a forty - five - year - old man with tight black mustaches and rough, pleasant facial features. Winston was going up the stairs. It wasn't worth a shot at the elevator. It rarely worked in better times, and current power was off during the day."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1486	Mr. Helme, five minutes is almost up. I'll put on the 30 seconds that we agreed on. So if you want to use it for 30 more seconds or you want three more minutes... But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a point in the Rules of Procedure that says that we should stick to what is on the agenda. Thank you! Mr. Pohlak. Mr. Grünthal, do you have a procedure? Yeah. Please, Mr. Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1487	Thank you, Mr President. But in my opinion, there is a situation at the moment where, in your own person, you are trying to establish a censorship on the speeches made by the members of the Riigikogu. The fact that you say that a speech or speech deviates from the subject cannot be any justification for shutting down the microphone. Perhaps all this previous talk is an illustrative, introductory part with a punch at the end. If you, let's say, find at some point that there is a deviation from the subject here, it's actually a censorship. We never know what the end of this speech will be. If you start applying this practice, you will be the first member of the Riigikogu Board to establish a censorship in the Riigikogu. It's very embarrassing. Please, please, I have a request, you do not know what will end the speech, and therefore you cannot say that there is a departure from the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1488	Mr Grünthal, § 72 (1) applies to you as well. Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1489	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question. I am reading here from the executive publication of the Home and Working Rules Act, which states literally that if a speech is made from a chair, I may stress that the speaking time may, rather than may, be extended by up to three minutes at the request of the President. A number of reasons have been raised, such as a tight agenda, why not even night sessions, etc. Am I reading this black white text wrong or am I misreading it? That's how I read it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1490	You're reading it right. I referred to it earlier. But now we're going on with the negotiations. Siim Pohlak. Mr. Grünthal, is there another procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1491	Yes, it is. It's not just that you're running over now, you're telling me if there's any more procedural questions, the paragraph says that. You have no right to establish censorship in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu states that a member of the Riigikogu is free to speak. You see, the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu says that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his speech! This means that you cannot impose and prohibit what a member of the Riigikogu says by referring to this norm. I admit there may be some moments, but there is also a case in the judicial system that comes after the ground and the weather, and finally all this talk is an example and proof of what this person is trying to say. Its use is not as you say it will deviate and is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1492	Siim Pohlak, please, your speaker!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1493	Time's already running. Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber! Good viewers behind the screens! All greenhouse gas trading is, in fact, a substitute, an eye distortion and a distraction from real problems, against which large sums of money with the skill of a magician are irresistibly raised from one pocket to another or a third pocket, and economic restructuring is carried out, along with the redistribution of wealth. All this to the detriment of national economies. The commercial value of a global allowance is estimated at hundreds of billions of dollars. The value of the voluntary market for individuals alone was close to $300 billion in 2018. However, according to the people dealing with environmental problems, there is currently no good evidence that this emissions trading scheme is actually justifying itself at all. Rather, it's a good manipulation. First, guilt is created, then indulgence is offered, national energy production and industry is squeezed, while at the same time a kilometer away from the border, quota trade is considered to be nothing. Electricity is cheap and these indulgences have become a big business. The real problem facing both trade in CO2 and many other issues is globalism. In the name of global ideology, nation states are being destroyed, languages, cultures, traditions are disappearing and, in fact, air is being polluted just like that, just 1,000 or 5,000 kilometres away. This quota trade isn't helping anything. Instead of supporting the production of local food in Estonia, today we have such a model that thousands of tons of food are transported to Estonia that can be grown in Estonia, which is suitable for the Estonian climate. But there is no point in producing them in Estonia, because because of the unequal agricultural policy of the European Union, it is not worthwhile; there is no point in doing so. Globalism again. A large number of companies have taken their production out of Europe, also out of Estonia, producing in some cheaper countries, which are probably not associated with quota trade, but the introduction of production into a cheaper country has also led to a drop in quality. Often, old, dignified brands produce a mass of low quality, fast-consumption crap that actually returns quickly to the landfill. Obviously, everyone has experience that products will not last as long as they did 10 or 20 years ago. This is also one of the consequences of globalism. The part of globalism, which has one hundred different aspects, is also the same quota trade that this draft concerns. Globalism is and will remain a tool for pooling wealth and resources in the hands of large corporations and a tool for destroying national economies. Since this draft is deeply related to the bureaucratic machine that squirts the directives to us from the European Union (it could be said that it is basically its birth), there is also one tiny wrench of the same draft in a nasty globalist system, which is a real problem that should be braked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1494	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! Tarmo Kruusimäe, I'm sorry! Mr Grünthal has a wish to clarify something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1495	Thank you, Mr President. Okay, let's follow the law the way you want it. Indeed, it states here that if the President's request is not met, the President of the sitting shall interrupt the text of the report, the statement or the question by turning off the microphone. Okay, turn off the microphone, it's your right, but you don't have the right to send this person off the remote, and that person can talk without the microphone. You've already made a procedural mistake when you told Peter Ernits to get out of this remote. You violated the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. You don't have that right. Turn off the microphone, but we will continue to talk if you do not accept that the longer introductory text and, more broadly, the text is a foreplay for the puff that the speech is about to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1496	Imre Sooääre also has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1497	Yes, thank you! For the sake of protocol, I ask you to register it. A good colleague, Kalle Grünthal, has just said that the President of the sitting stated that Mr Peeter Ernits must leave this remote control. I have not heard this, although I have been sitting in this Chamber for the last hour so that the President of the sitting would say something like that. Why is colleague Kalle Grünthal lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1498	Word's free. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1499	Good manager! Dear colleague! You see, sometimes I talk about Soosaar, sometimes it's more useful to remain silent, sometimes you can sit in the hall and not hear anything. The stones can't hear either. I was on the remote, and I was told to leave. I didn't go there for a while and I stood there. So, good colleague, wash your ears.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1500	Tarmo Kruusimäe, it's your turn. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1501	Thank you, good vice chairman. The people you're looking at us through the Internet! You read the verbogram, of course, but the verbogram doesn't have that emotion. "What's going on now? " Well, that's how we get upset now, really. We're dealing with some green shit here, because it's extremely popular, because it might bring some more voters in the fall. It's not like the voter is, you know, exactly like the ones who bring us this agenda. If you're a hunter, you're a hunter, and you can't start talking about me like a cat and a tiger-bred dog that looks like a crocodile, but it's just such an agile idea. Really, I didn't think that this law to amend the law on atmospheric air protection and the law on state fees could cause so much passion here, because I thought, uh, don't talk, you know. [[Laughing.]] But I came here, I looked. In fact, it was a wish when I heard Paul Puustusmaa say something here and the chairman of the hearing said, "Don't play with fire." That's right, with fire. But now we have to get to what kind of fire we're talking about, man-made fire or the other fire we have and what we're going to burn from this switch. We're gonna need some kind of energy for this switch. And how do we get it now? I realize that at some point, people need energy. That's what I noticed right now, the last maybe half an hour, when Hanno Pevkur, the extremely balanced and eminent vice-president, who is very reasonable and awesome, began to trade at some point: "Well, maybe in two minutes you can do it? Or maybe one? " Does it give you any bonus points? But if I'm talking about three instead of five minutes, do I get any benefits, like the Green Capital of the newspaper? We still have to dry the bots inside.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1502	Mr Kruusimäe, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we are currently in the process of protecting atmospheric air.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1503	Not bad, Sherlock! That's because 345 is the second reading of the SE. For example, an extremely well-balanced human would have said that I would get to that point. We can't be, being ambassadors, here with as simple a story as they tell kindergartens that nature needs to be preserved. Of course you have to keep it, but at what cost? We actually need to speak the language with which we are spoken. We'll have macaroni hanged behind our ears, and then we'll believe. Here at the end of the previous composition were either Creatures or Invisible Animals or some such event, they invited all members of the Riigikogu. I went there and I was alone. Young nice people, you don't have to be afraid of them. Because no one dares to talk to young people, they have that knowledge. And it's exactly the same here. I recall Villu Tamm's words: "Let us produce more manure, comrades, who need phosphorus!'. I mean, it gets the energy these days, but it turns out it's smelly. After all, atmosphere is just as much needed as Earth's attraction. Then why aren't we talking about Earth's attraction here? The world is very strange, palm trees grow in one place, and penguins in another place. Should we make a bill out of this? Let me remind you of one simple thing. The previous composition of the Committee on European Union Affairs dealt with the need to eliminate cocktail straws, which is a major problem in the world. Well, I don't know how big he really is, but it's estimated he might be 0.004% of our household trash. But it was serious. We were debating and arguing, just until one minute a good colleague who dealt with people with disabilities stood up and said: "Have you lost your mind? You're attacking the most vulnerable people, people with disabilities, for whom the cocktail straw is the only diet. Just because you have nothing to do in your office. " And now we're here and we're gonna put our energy security on the market because there was nothing we could do in the office. Fungi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1504	Ladies and gentlemen, We have had an argument here on how long speeches may be and whether the content of the speech could be interfered with. I'm taking a 30-minute break to try and find a common standard with the other board members. 30 minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1505	Ladies and gentlemen, During the holidays, we really talked to the members of the Riigikogu's board to clarify how we could behave as much as possible during today's long session and so that the ambassadors would know. We reached such a salomonic conclusion that members of the Riigikogu will have three minutes if they have a very substantive and very thorough talk. But if this isn't very substantive, then it's five minutes. At the same time, the President of the Riigikogu will not interfere with the content of the speech. Before Riina Sikkut can make a speech, Kalle Grünthal has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1506	Thank you, Mr President. I'm looking at this hall right now, there are very few ambassadors here right now. It's like I'm interested, you have smart counselors in there next to what the situation is, whether we can even deal with this bill if there are no people in the Chamber. What's this paragraph, maybe a reference to it? Thank you. I could check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1507	Wait a minute. Yes, the presence will be checked at the beginning of the sitting and the presence can be checked before the vote. There's a procedural question on Tarmo Kruus Hill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1508	Yeah, thanks! Maybe I missed my ears, but the guys in the women's sauna told me there's been a change of law here, that if you read the book, you get five minutes, and if you don't read the book, you get three more minutes. Now the question is that the book, as such, we generalise, is a paper. That should also apply to the waitresses, because I like people who talk straight, don't just count it down. The second question, this is extremely agile: but if he uses an e-reader, then of course he gets three more minutes. Is that right, or was it just a sauna story?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1509	I don't know exactly what was said in the sauna, but I'll be more specific. Point one: the question is not whether you are reading on paper, on an e-reader or in a book, the question was that, since we have a long agenda for the sitting and are moving slowly, the President of the sitting only gives more time if the speech is really very closely and very concretely linked to the draft and it is clear that the speech will not be over within five minutes. If the statement relates only indirectly to the draft, the President of the sitting shall not, as a rule, grant any additional time. What is said in this speech is the ambassador's own business. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1510	Thank you, Mr President. I actually have two procedural questions, but since Tarmo Kruusimäe asked a very constructive question, I will first ask my question, which relates to the question of Tarmo Kruusimäe, and then, when I have asked this question, someday later I will ask the question, which I wanted to ask after I asked you in advance. Paragraph 69 states that it may be restricted, the President of the sitting may switch off the microphone. It's in the law, isn't it? But what if he shuts down, but I'm still gonna keep talking for three minutes? What are the possibilities for the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu to get me out of this remote control because it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu? What sanctions can be imposed on the ambassador, and will there be a situation that somehow, let us say, by way of own initiative, our good security guards will be brought here to twist their hands, or how will this situation be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1511	I promise you, no one's gonna bend their hands, and the security guys won't take anyone out of this hall until they're all polite and they don't go to violence. That's it. Kert Kingo, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1512	Thank you. I would like to clarify this new procedure. Speaking can be eight minutes long if you read something about the book or the speech contains a subject of substance. Before Jaak White read the Constitution, introducing constitutional order to the people. Does it fall into substance or not, for example, if a law is read out and the ambassadors are introduced just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1513	Rather, we are referring back to the fact that our Rules of Procedure are guiding the negotiations to talk about the item on the agenda, and if the speech goes very far from the item on the agenda, then the members of the Bureau have so agreed, no additional time may be given. This content relates to the item on the agenda. Kalle Grünthal has an 18th procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1514	Thank you, Mr President. But I still can't ask the question I wanted to ask you about my first question. Now I want to ask you a question that relates to Kert Kingo's question. But how can the President of the sitting determine the fact that I am going to be distracted from the agenda if all this previous talk can be an introductory part to make it more understandable what I want to say at the end of this speech? 'Cause usually the call comes out at the end. I see the possibility that censorship will still be established here. If I look at the fact that our honourable President was walking around with a shirt "The Word is Free," how does the President's slogan relate to the freedom of expression of members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1515	Yeah. Well, it's probably the same as the procedure, that neither before they talk, we don't know what the contents of this story are. Well, then the manager needs to appreciate, the meeting manager needs to appreciate, and maybe some managers have a little bit of one style and the other a little bit of style. I promise I won't be strict. Tarmo Kruusimägi is a procedural one. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1516	Well, I understand that it is very difficult for the chairmen to take this decision, whether or not it is. Here's my advice. I'm a professional cook. Potato salad still has a potato salad in it, which means that if I say "atmosphere air" every 20 seconds during a five-minute speech in the current draft, it is recognizable that atmospheric air is the subject or that it will be seen in the repetition. We are not schoolchildren, that as I say to you, like, really like-like, it's like talk, but when I say "atmosphere air," if I can tell you all that atmospheric air, it's connected to the atmosphere. In that case, it still counts when that word repeats there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1517	It's hard to argue with that logic. Helle-Moonika Helme, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1518	Thank you. I'm just gonna ask you again for the sake of the future. Did the board discuss that too? If it is five minutes plus three minutes and if, for example, five minutes, the book can be read, and if the President decides that it is not relevant, he will close the speech of the Riigikogu representative in five minutes. Is there, for example, the possibility that, if you read the book for example four minutes and 58 seconds and then for the remaining two seconds to make such a quick introduction to the bill, is there still the possibility that the President of the sitting would understand that this was an illustrative introduction, in which all the following was expressed, and that he would still not interrupt in five minutes but have eight minutes to speak?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1519	I am in favour of our discussion being thorough and as wide as possible and the ambassadors being able to express themselves as creatively as possible. However, I call on the ambassadors to speak in their speech about the item on the agenda, which is currently under way. The ambassador himself must know how he gets to the subject and how long this introduction is. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1520	Thank you, Mr President. I really do have a procedural question. We're talking about how ugly the Reform Party is and how ugly the Centre Party is, which, of course, sometimes is very common in our language. However, I say that this criticism applies to political parties, but some people are quite nice there sometimes. In fact, this is the situation where one of the ambassadors of the Centre Party, I leave his name unnamed, came to tell me secretly how to solve this situation, whether we need to talk for five or eight minutes. He said so, but then tell the President of the sitting that all this previous talk is the introductory part, the punch is at the end, then there is no need for the President of the sitting to wonder whether this is appropriate or not. We'll inform you that the first part relates to the buffet. I think it's settled then, so we can all talk for eight minutes. My compliments to those fine Centre Party ambassadors who are trying to think along and find solutions in very difficult situations. What do you think of this ambassador from the Central Party and my statement that this could work like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1521	It might work, but if you can see that it's going to work, it could work. Paul in the woodland is a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1522	Thank you, good manager. I have been looking all night for a compromise on how to solve this problem, and I have offered different options. It seems that these opportunities are quite good in themselves, because when there was a break, several ambassadors from the Reform Party and also from the Centre Party, who looked at me as a bird, to see if we were already solving the problem. That's why I'm asking. The board's break was now half an hour, where very important principles of speaking were established. But did the question of how we could solve today's problem with a compromise be discussed, i.e. the option of having 366 of the bill out, so that everyone is healthy, the sheep are eating and the wolves are healthy, or was it the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1523	Yeah, we appreciate all the colleagues who are looking for a compromise. I would point out that the discussion that was held here during the break I took was not a meeting of the Bureau. This was an exchange of views between the members of the Bureau, which sought to harmonise practice during the chairing of the meeting. In the course of this, there was no question of what to do with Bill 366. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1524	Thank you. I would like to ask a procedurally perhaps more of an estimated question. The previous President repeatedly interrupted Jaak White's speech and claimed that his speech was not related to the subject, as Jaak Valge spoke very clearly about most of his speech in the presidential election and the order of the presidential election. Jaak White told him that it was actually very appropriate to talk about it, because this law will eventually go into the hands of the President. I totally agree with him. The President of the previous sitting repeatedly claimed that this was still not relevant. But how do you appreciate it? We were talking about the law on atmospheric air protection. We know that the President has a very important and very important role to play in declaring all laws. We have seen several times how the President [is] dealing with some of the laws that the Riigikogu has negotiated in this Chamber as a legislator, we have spoken, we have tabled amendments and we have finally adopted [the law]. Then these laws go from here to the Riigikogu, from the legislator to the President, but the President does not announce them. So in that sense, the introduction of the president was actually relevant. When we are talking about the law on atmospheric air protection, it is also a very polarising issue in society today. We all know that. Who recognizes a man-made climate of warming and who doesn't. It is very important whether we have a person as president who acknowledges the man-made warming of the climate or who does not recognise it. Depending on this, we are finally in the situation that he is either declaring this law, a very important law that we have discussed here for a long time and which we have finally adopted, or he is not declaring it, depending on his worldview. In this sense, however, I am saying that the way an ambassador builds up his speech and if he still says that he thinks it is important, I still think that it is not like the chairman or vice-chairman of the Riigikogu to come in and drive from behind to the Riigikogu ambassador and say that if you don't finish now, I will close your microphone. I have a question. I have actually wanted to ask this several times, and I also wanted to ask the previous President-in-Office, but I will ask you this. Threats are threats, and we already heard them. But what happens next? Now what? Does the President-in-Office have any legislative options from there when he says he will close the microphone, but the ambassador will speak further? What's he gonna do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1525	Well, that's why I took a break so that we could agree with the board members on what we're gonna do here. The result of this debate was, however, that the President of the sitting would not intervene in the contents of the statement by the Ambassador during the negotiations or even during the questioning process. So I guess the question that's going to happen isn't going to come up. Tarmo Kruusimägi is a procedural one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1526	Yeah, thanks! My procedure is linked to the fact that the most important man in the Republic of Estonia, the President of the Riigikogu and the following men, vice-chairmen, would not remain in a foolish situation. I think your conversation was superficial. I, having been in opposition in the Tallinn City Council for 11 and a half years, have been used to asking questions in 30 seconds, and within it you will be given an assessment and everything. How's this going to take so long? Well, there you go. Now, if you don't have to make a criticism, but you have to talk about a bill, you can have five minutes of such a praise, and when it comes in three minutes, it starts to come. I mean, it's not a good line when there's such a dormant talk at first that the bill is good-good and then after that... That's a bad line. After all, the President of the Riigikogu is in a very difficult situation when he sees that they have made a decision that is, as if, forcing us to say, this bad behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1527	Yes, it is extremely rare that the Riigikogu does not grant an additional three minutes at the request of the ambassador. This practice is rarely used in exceptional situations. Of course, some of the members of the Riigikogu and also the members of the Riigikogu's board must agree that our session today is not quite normal; it is by its very nature a bit extraordinary, so here there are some arguments for limiting it. However, it is undoubtedly not justified to intervene in the content of the speech. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1528	Thank you, Mr President. I really do have a procedural question right now. I am very grateful to the ambassador of the Central Party, who came to me specifically to tell this story. The true representatives of the Centre Party still want this to be resolved. It was the same solution that you also agreed that the speaker would say that he had a longer introduction with a punch at the end, but it wouldn't work without it. He shall inform the President accordingly. I have such a request that if you now hand over the scepter to the next President of the Riigikogu sitting, I do not know what time, you would announce that the Chamber of Riigikogu decided in this way in order not to have dozens and dozens of protests here again, we could finally proceed with the progress of this sitting and start discussing the matter in substance. I'm already totally pissed that we can't really discuss this. But I will come back to this question, which I have not been able to ask, because I have had to ask questions that have previously been asked by other questioners, and these my questions relate to this question. Now I would like to ask my question. I asked, under what paragraph, you have to look at the presence in the hall and how many of us must be here. You have excellent advisors, whom I immensely appreciate, I even commended one of your advisors at the cafeteria, saying that he is a very smart person. Tell me this paragraph, I'll have a clear picture of what's going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1529	Yes, that is Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure. Now for Peter Ernitsal's procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1530	Yes, thank you! Like you said, they don't give you three minutes. I'm the one who wasn't given this super-superbly. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I am very familiar with atmospheric air issues. You said no interference in the contents. But where is the limit when talking about a person who possesses the subject and uses the tools there, in this case Orwell's Animal Farm? I told you that in the end, pigs and dogs got the advantage, they got good food, they didn't have to do hard work, and they were free to live in Jones' house. But the summary of the contents of the Animal Farm states: "Just exposing the mechanism of simple power-belief enabled and enables the reader to see through today the struggle for power even in those cases when it is disguised with objective regularities and noble goals. " I meant this, using Orwell's Animal Farm, that the noble goals of saving the world in a climate disaster have been looted with so-called noble goals, I also described the "Animal Farm" section, but I was not allowed to go on with it. Where is the limit and where is the competence of the board members, who say that allegory is not to be used, and here is the limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1531	Yeah. I'm glad we could get to that ivani right now under the procedural name. Well, that wasn't a procedure in itself. But that's why I took a break so that we could agree on how we're gonna behave in this situation. I believe that we have overcome this problem, that there will be some interference in the content of the speeches made by the Members of the Riigikogu. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1532	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm telling you, you're a very good person. Now I think I can get to the most important question of today, perhaps. [[Browse papers.]] But I'm not asking today. I'll ask you another time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1533	All right. Looks like the procedural ones are exhausted, and we can move on with the negotiations. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1534	Thank you, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen. Well, now there's been almost nine hours of trial. I wanted to talk on the first item, I was able to hold back, but now on the third item, I came to the remote. Maybe not everyone's been watching the trial. I think that what has been useful in this debate is worth summarising. With regard to the previous two items on the agenda, both the Security and Cooperation Organisation and the delegation of the Baltic Assembly, we should actually discuss the criteria according to which the members of the delegation are to be determined, who these people are, what these personal qualities are. Now, in the shadow of obstruction, for the first time, we actually discussed it the way we had to. Past decisions concerning the NATO delegation, Oudekki Loonet, Urmas Reitelmann...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1535	Riina, can you put the microphones closer? They say they can't hear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1536	Yeah, sorry, rehearsal! All right, harder. We have had past decisions that I do not feel are the right people to represent the Riigikogu. Then next. Indeed, the discussions on many drafts are superficial in this Chamber, but now, in the case of the law on atmospheric air protection, the debate was very sympathetic. Indeed, the trade in emissions, how it is organised, why it is structured like this, what are the nuances that will be changed when transport, agriculture and new sectors come under ETS is important. It is a good thing that there was an expert on the board who was able to explain the very fundamental things that we have in future discussions. For example, if we have to decide that if transport goes under ETS, how will Estonia meet these new goals? All this background knowledge is very useful. Such a deepening of the objectives of the planned amendment of the law and the desire to understand could still exist every day in the hall. So I'd like to see a more active and meaningful debate here. But by dedicating the means, I disagree. I also have doubts about the EKRE's real objectives that how much it is about a specific biometric identification system, how much the scheme 'you do the problem, you object, you get the attention'. We discussed here at length the recovery plan that the government decided to attach to the vote of confidence. The recovery plan will not become unconstitutional by the collapse of the EKRE opposition. If the problem is honest, we need to pay attention to it immediately. It is so serious that these legal assessments must be taken immediately, whether you are in a coalition or in opposition. So you don't want to test the boundaries of constitutionality while you're in government. But the emergency law, the same thing, 366. Well, you support being in the coalition, and if you're in the opposition, you're against it. Not a good pattern. You could deal with more substantive issues. But the fact that the government does not tie the draft to a vote of confidence is equally understandable. There is no need to do so on any technical issue. And I guess the Riigikogu's job is to solve it and, if necessary, to stay up and discuss it. We can see that there are a lot of drafts on the agenda of this week, and probably next week's agenda, that are urgently requested... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1537	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1538	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1539	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1540	... to push through so that there is no debate. So let's talk about the secrecy of forest data in the shadow of an amendment to the environmental code, or about the Water Act and the expectations of people to get their own sewerage, there will also be a debate on the collective agreement law. All those things that cannot be said, in the cover of the end of the session, that they should be dealt with quickly today. These are the things that want to be deepened, and it is in no way reasonable or necessary to withdraw this opportunity from Parliament. So the Riigikogu could demonstrate its importance by adopting laws that are actually useful, which we can understand that they make something better for people. Next. After all, the role of the Riigikogu has been reduced in strategic planning. Now for the opportunity to discuss the development plans. This week's agenda includes, for example, an education development plan. Very important. Similarly, I hope that there will be an active debate and that we will be able to clear these key points and concerns nicely. However, this whole procedural issue and the delay has also led to the fact that the debate on a crucial national issue that the Group of the Social Democratic Party planned for tomorrow is unfortunately not going to happen. That's a real shame. It's a matter of substance. We will probably be discussing cut-off decisions here during the summer and also in the autumn in the context of the draft procedure. I do not think there are any people here who would think that there is internal inefficiency in the Rescue Board that can be used for wage increases, or that important things are not being dealt with there, or that state reform must begin with the closure of commandos. That's not what you really have to do. Similarly, an interest education cut, a genuinely regional policy measure. For Loksa's child, the level of interest education allowance is 22 times higher than for Keila's child, and Setumaa's child receives 14 times more support than that of Tallinn's child. If we cut our interest education support and say that the local government itself must find the resource to turn the state down, that is, Setumaa must make 14 times more effort than Tallinn, which also shows that there is a much greater likelihood that children in rural areas will be deprived of this support. We need to discuss these things, we need to change these things. So one of the following topics, where the Riigikogu can demonstrate a substantive understanding, a desire to change and increase its role in discussing the budget, is budget transparency, how the budget law is structured, whether it is possible to understand what is inside it, whether changes can be made there. And finally. I'm glad that when books are read, at least they're good books. If anyone is looking for material, the new number of Riigikogu Toimetised, introduced today, will be on my desk. There are topics...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1541	Riina, it's past eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1542	...from the right to distance learning. Everyone finds a story that suits themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1543	Yeah. Helle-Moonika Helme has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1544	I wanted to congratulate the current President-in-Office, who, with absolutely no word, no thought, no act, did not interrupt the honourable rapporteur, although he also may have had no direct connection with this draft. I very much commend you. So go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1545	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal also has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1546	I don't know what you're laughing at. The question is actually simple. I think that Moonika's very correct sentence just said what I really wanted to say. But I think that all the ambassadors who have bothered to be in this hall or to follow us from somewhere else, as well as the Estonian people, have a clear picture of the leadership style of each party. You saw what I was saying, tyranny, I am naming directly, the President of the Reform Party hearing, who said that I would warn you that something was about to burn or something. Anyway, the [speaker] was driven off the remote. It is not democracy, it is not parliamentarianism, it is totalitarianism. Or some other...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1547	Are we gonna get to the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1548	I would like to say that the President of the Riigikogu of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia listened calmly, meant along, gave hope. I say the best chair is Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1549	It wasn't procedural, but thank you. We're going to the vote now. Henn Põljaasa is... You can't speak anymore, you can only perform the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1550	Thank you. As our honourable colleague Riina Sikkut spoke about people who read a book, I feel that I too love and read a lot of books. He actually referred to me in his speech. I'd like to ask for a chance to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1551	Go on with the line. Please, we'll give Henn a line to the field. He's a book reader, he was mentioned in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1552	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Indeed, I am absolutely wholeheartedly joining Riina in this matter. Reading is extremely important, reading is extremely important, and it is, in fact, figuratively, our Estonian people have been sucked in with their mother's milk. I remember going to Italy ten years ago as mayor of Saue, we had a town of friendship there. To my great surprise, the mayor of my colleague, Montemarciano's small town at the time, said that his grandmother and grandfather could not read. Turns out it was all over the place. But at that time there were hardly any such people in Estonia, there were few people who could not read. In Estonia, before the Northern War, reading skills were at 80 to 90% thanks to Forselius' seminars, and in fact it was quite extraordinary on a global scale, on a European scale. Sadly, after the Northern War, when church schools were demolished, burned, it took us nearly 100 years until we regained our education. Thanks to the fact that Estonia has had this education system, world-class reading skills and everything else, we have reached today, where we can be proud of our education, the results of our children's and school students' PISA tests, even though so much time has passed. So Estonia is 1. Hooray!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1553	Peter Ernitsa has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1554	Yeah, I do, too. I felt the same way when Riina told me that I was a reader too. I would like to quote to my dear fellow Members, Apollo, a meaningful article that tells us why reading is beneficial today. Reading helps relax, that's first of all, I'm not gonna talk any longer, the research's back there. Reading keeps the mind sharp, is second. Reading can help fight Alzheimer's disease. And reading can help you sleep better. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1555	I understand it was a line, not a procedural one, but this line is finished. Riina Sikkut has now been mentioned. Rep from Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1556	Thank you, Mr President. Henn Põllea was absolutely right, in my speech I meant him. His good choice of books was surprising and commendable. But I am also surprised that Estonia has almost 100 years of complete literacy, which stands out in the world, while the level of parliamentary debate is still such that it does not stand out well in the world. As the property of the materials being read out expands, and in very many families the subject of compulsory literature or summer reading has now been given for the summer, does the board also consider giving the Riigikogu a list of recommended materials so that we know how to prepare for the autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1557	I don't think the board's gonna share any suggestions. But when it comes to the level of debate, practice makes perfect. We should move on with the negotiations. Mr Grüntha has already received the floor during the negotiations. So I can't give you the floor right now. Oh, well, it looks like there's a procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1558	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provides for the possibility of receiving a statement. Since Riina Sikkut also presented in her speech the views that I have spoken in my speech, including on books and matters of atmospheric protection, I think that, as a result of § 70 (1), I am entitled to a statement of objections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1559	All right. Suppose you had a line. Then take off the procedure and make your line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1560	Thank you. Yes, indeed, I also spoke about the atmosphere in my speech. As EKRE was also touched here, yes, I am a member of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I gotta say, I read books too, I like books. I didn't read a book about this remote control today, but it doesn't mean what some people think I don't read books at all. I love to read books, I almost learned to read when I was three years old, and that's why I even learned to read.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1561	Got it. All right, lines are over. Mr Ossinovski, speaking in the negotiations, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1562	Thank you, Mr President. Come on, this is a very thorough debate on atmospheric air protection. But, well, let's say, I can't say that too much of this bill's scope and the subject would have been respected. But as far as literary areas, book suggestions were concerned, I have a book to recommend. Pierre Bayard has written and Estonian is translated "How to Talk About Books We Have Not Read." It's a manual. In fact, looking at this circle of relatively complex topics and the area we have been talking about today, then indeed, the subject of European climate policy is one where much is said, those who have not read these books talk about and, unfortunately, do not know how to talk about books that they have not read, but take estimates in such a way that it is not quite the case. Consequently, I would indeed recommend [this book], as there will be other drafts where a relatively thorough debate is to be expected. It's such a thin book, it'll be over tomorrow morning if anyone wants to borrow, then by tomorrow morning, the practical skills would be at a different level, how to talk about texts that you don't know anything about. For example, Mart Helme once said that he didn't even read these drafts, but he understood them himself. It's a bit of a skill. How to talk about texts you haven't even heard, for example, is spoken about here. There's a book that I respect very much, but I haven't even heard of him in a category like this. But to come to the subject, I must say that the amendment that I have tabled on this draft is a very good amendment. I strongly recommend voting in favour of this, which would indeed be a value-based message from Parliament that the climate crisis and its resolution will be taken seriously. I think we could make that decision here today. As regards the proposal to interrupt the reading of the bill made by the members of the Riigikogu, I would not agree with this proposal. I understand that, as a general rule, if the amendment is not taken into account, it should be done, but this draft is predominantly of a technical nature and this system of trade in emissions should be implemented in the new period, in accordance with the implementing acts that have come from the European Commission, and it would be important that we also get this clarity to market participants. We can have fun here, but for people and businesses, it is a matter of tens of millions of euros to have these rules in place. They are very strict because they are a pan-European system, and they depend very much on it. We should settle these matters before the summer. A number of drafts, indeed, which are being rushed through here, could, not even be, but should be removed from the agenda, should be discussed calmly. Yes, when there are concerns and questions, time should be taken off and discussed. But in the case of this bill, let us be honest, broadly speaking, we are all actually in agreement that it should finally be adopted. I cannot support this proposal in any way as a representative of the lead committee, and I hope that my colleagues in my group will not support it either. But this amendment is really a good thing that I have put forward. In fact, I must say that all the other amendments received by the Commission are well worth supporting. Good work has been done on this bill, there's nothing to say. I suggest, however, that we support it. And you see, with my speech, I was able to give Mart Helme a chance to speak. It's not a bad thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1563	Thank you very much. Yes, indeed, Mart Helme wants a line. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1564	Yeah. "The Animal Farm" is a saying that two feet bad and four feet good. Dear Riina Sikkut, who has learned not only to read but also to write, has released half a sister in her column, as I would have said, that I do not read the drafts, but I understand them. This is followed by the other side, you can check it in the verbatim. The other side is this: unlike Mr Ossinovski, who reads the bill but does not understand them. So let's talk about things the way they are, standing on four feet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1565	I must draw Riina Sikkut's attention to the fact that a reply can only be spoken once, that the name of each other cannot bounce back and forth. Henn in the field, it seems, is procedural. Henn! Please, you have a procedure, Henn! Henn! You've been asked for a procedural word.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1566	I'm so sorry, I must have pushed by mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1567	You don't have to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1568	But it's actually pretty good, and I'd take advantage of that opportunity. I suggested, when Jüri Ratas directed that he, as the chairman of the Riigikogu, take the initiative and end this obstruction, either convene the management board of the Riigikogu or the body of elders to which I belong, and I would be very happy to take part in this discussion. After all, we all know what this is about, Bill 366,, which essentially seeks to create for us such a big brother society, where all the data that is absolutely possible is aggregated into a single database. We know that, even if the goal is good, such things are unfortunately reaching some grotesque, and there may be quite drastic consequences. That's why I read a few pages of Orwell's book on the remote so that we can all visualize such a total orwellian dystopic society...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1569	But the procedure is what?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1570	... so that everyone can feel completely with their flesh and skin that we don't want, we've been like this...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1571	Henn! We should get to the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1572	But I wanted to ask if Jüri Ratas has now been right for several hours now, having made some suggestions as Chairman of the Riigikogu about how to do things. Will this bill be removed from the proceedings or that we can still work with the Riigikogu at a normal pace and probably not have to hold these additional weekend sessions? Do you have any information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1573	There has been no such convening, but I have to specify and this is indeed a procedural [theme]. Since the Riigikogu voted on the agenda on Monday and this agenda was adopted in 366, it is not possible to withdraw it from that agenda at this point in time, not even on the proposal of the leading committee. The only way to stop reading this bill is if the rapporteur for the commission does not come to the remote. As we progress relatively slowly with our agenda, whether the rapporteur for the commission comes to the remote control or not, we will probably not know until Saturday. Until then, the Riigikogu or the chairmen of the Riigikogu or the political groups will have time to discuss with one another how to resolve the situation. Kalle Grünthal also has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1574	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask you, as one of the members of the Board of the Riigikogu, about one of these mysterious situations for me. The thing is, as I recall, Jüri Ratas came to the remote and excitedly announced that the agenda, which is now confirmed, had been cancelled. Then he also announced that he had been sent, meaning that an additional sitting was convened [Notice] and there was also stated that in exceptional circumstances etc. Then there was a problem, we started analyzing what these extraordinary circumstances are and what are these compelling reasons. It turned out that there are a few older people among the coalition members who may not be able to do so much work in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, which may end in some ways even fatally. But the investigation revealed that extraordinary circumstances are only the agenda. However, I did not receive an answer from the esteemed Jüri Ratas, in which way the agenda is linked to extraordinary circumstances that could lead to serious consequences. It was absolutely unclear to me. Now it is also a matter of the fact that I think Jüri Ratas distorted the nature of this supplementary sitting a little during the session and began to highlight other matters which the Riigikogu Bureau did not take into account by its decision. I would still like to know what are the extraordinary circumstances that could have serious consequences when the Saturday and Sunday sessions are held. Can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1575	Well, I can explain what the argument for the discussion at the Bureau meeting was. This argument was, in principle, a review of the previous precedent, previous practice. The previous practice is that shortening this three-day notice due to exceptional circumstances is usually considered to be exceptional and has to be gathered more quickly. It has been a regular practice through different formations. All this extraordinaryness has always been interpreted this way. I don't know what else to say. That's the argument we had there. Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1576	Thank you. You said that there could be no other way to drop out of the approved agenda if the remote speaker, Mr Korobenik, did not appear in this case in the context of Bill 366. However, there is one other option: the initiator can withdraw the draft at any time. That's an option, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1577	Yeah, that's an option too. I agree, I do. But this will has not yet been demonstrated. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1578	President of the sitting, I thank you for your excellent explanation, but I'm using a smart book that I believe you have in your desk somewhere. Page 189 states that the expression "big reasons" indicates that the questions that the Riigikogu needs to discuss and decide are urgent and that compliance with the three-day notice period can have serious consequences. Please explain to me how the agenda can be urgent and, if we do not do so now with the additional sitting, what serious consequences will come with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1579	Thank you. You have just quoted a commentary on a commentary. I can't say anything else but that these extraordinary circumstances have been interpreted throughout the various formations as essentially necessary. There's never been any other standard here. As a conservative, I accept that if it has always been done, it has always been done. Let's probably get on with this. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1580	Thank you, Mr President. But maybe you can explain to me, as a beginner to a member of the Riigikogu, what does it mean that the agenda is urgent? What does this mean that if we do not deal with this agenda, there will be serious consequences? I don't understand. The draft Social Democrats - in my opinion, the problem of poverty is a very urgent matter - is being thrown out instead. I can't agree with that. Poverty is still very important to us in certain sections of society. There are two illogical things here. Can you explain it to me now from two points of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1581	I can explain that obviously we just have a different view of what's urgent. The various groups have a different understanding of what is urgent or what are serious consequences. I don't know what else to say. Okay, but the negotiations are over. There's no more words. I'm closing the negotiations. Yippee! We can go to the examination of the amendments. Six amendments have been tabled for draft 345. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1582	Honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu! The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for this amendment to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1583	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1584	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the Estonian Conservative People's Party is over. Let me remind you where we are. We are at the second reading of the 345th draft law, the amendment of the law on atmospheric air protection, the first amendment. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1585	52 members supported the amendment, 4 opposed the amendment and 1 abstention. The amendment was supported. Amendment 2: Its author is again the Committee on the Environment and the Steering Committee has decided to take full account of it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1586	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote and, before that, to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1587	Got it. Let's take a ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1588	Ladies and gentlemen, Break's over. We are on the draft 345 amendments. Amendment 2, tabled by the Committee on the Environment and fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1589	The amendment was supported by 48 delegates, one against and one abstention. The proposal was supported. Amendment 3, the author's Committee on the Environment, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1590	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask you to vote on this amendment and, at the same time, to take a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-09_U1591	Let's take a ten-minute break.
