ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 17th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, it is possible for you to hand over drafts and enquiries if such a request is to be made. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Members of the Isamaa Group, I will address the inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. If we look, the relatively modest description is in the coalition agreement on the transition to education in Estonian. It seems that the forces of the Reform Party are slowing down on the subject that the opposition was much more active and enthusiastic. I'd like to know what kind of stump things are hiding behind. We have some questions about the extent to which the development plan of the Estonian language, which we have approved here, aims that Estonia should be transferred mainly to Estonian-language education, but the actions are much more modest. And then there are the questions of why this objective has only been set in 2035, what practical steps will be taken to launch the education agenda, etc. We hope to meet the Prime Minister soon and receive substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U3	Thank you. Now, before we go to Tarmo Kruusimäe's bill or questioning, Peter Ernitsa will have a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have a procedural question that we discussed yesterday: whether we have now been rid of poverty, we have cut the Socialists' bill for eradicating this poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U5	We're talking about OTRK. We will continue to have OTRK on the agenda, because that is the agenda that we adopted on Monday. It is true that it is quite doubtful whether we are going to be able to deal with this today. From there it is then that the Board of the Riigikogu has called an additional sitting by Saturday and Sunday. The Bureau of the Riigikogu, as it wishes to place it, puts the item on the agenda for an additional sitting, and no OTRK has been placed there. According to the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure, items that have not been dealt with on the regular agenda of this week will automatically be postponed to the next week. The agenda for next week will be discussed by the Riigikogu Board today, and by then we will no doubt have some input from the Social Democratic Party Group, which they want to do next week with their OTRK, whether they want to put it on the agenda or whether they want to postpone it somewhere. We'll find out today at 3:30. Oh, Kalle Grünthal also wants a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U6	Thank you, Mr President. At the beginning of this week, there was such an event that the Riigikogu's board was protested in connection with the adoption of decisions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. To put it briefly, it was that on 3 June the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu held a session where the preparation of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on identity documents initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws for second reading was dealt with. First of all, the problem was that the draft table of amendments following inappropriate additions was not voted at the beginning of the committee and the draft submitted to the members of the committee was immediately taken as a basis for discussion by the Commission leader of the amendments, with the basis for the addition of the amendments being legally incomprehensible, because in fact this has to be done by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but it was brought together by unknown persons. This protest was received in writing and we also asked the honourable Jüri Ratas here about this protest. He admitted that he was trying to find out something about this protest. As of today, we have officially the last day of this week's sitting before Saturday and Sunday. I would like to know what the Bureau's decision on this protest has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U7	Maybe you can ask the hall to be a little quieter. This protest was discussed by the Riigikogu Board at its Tuesday meeting. The members of the Riigikogu's board did not have a real consensus as to whether this protest was justified or not. The Board of the Riigikogu concluded that we do not have any guidelines in the Rules of Procedure to do with such protests, because it has simply not been regulated in any way. We have come to the conclusion that we are sending this protest to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which should then discuss it in some way at its working meeting. Yes, Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U8	Thank you for your explanation, which has not been able to be received in a week. But for me, there's another question. The protest has been sent to the Legal Affairs Committee...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U9	The Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U10	Constitutional Commission, sorry! This means that the Governing Board has taken some kind of decision, as no consensus was reached on this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U11	It is not true that we reached a consensus that we would send him to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Okay? Let's go to Tarmo Kruusimäe's speech. Please! Kalle, you can take your name down. You won't? Well, you do what you say, and then we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U12	Thank you, good vice chairman. I am pleased to hand over, on behalf of Tarmo Kruusimäe, Raivo Tamme, Madis Milling, Üllar Saaremäe, Andres Metsoja, Paul Puustusmaa, Kert Kingo and Kalle Grünthal, a draft law amending the tobacco law, which would regulate a number of alternative tobacco products. I recall that Estonia continues to be the third largest in Europe in terms of tobacco deaths. We find it shameful. Real life goes in a different direction, but the puritans think that if a pamphlet is made, everyone will immediately quit smoking and passive non-smokers will get away with it. But real life is something else. I guess with you, good hall, we're modernising our lawmaking. I'm asking for your support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U13	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted an inquiry and a draft. Let's proceed with the procedure. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U14	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I understand it, since it was sent back, there must have been some kind of slingshot in the process. Since the barrage has been identified by you, does this also mean that our draft 366 will not be dealt with until the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made some new legal assessment of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U15	No, I didn't get that right. The Bureau did not formulate any position on this issue because the Bureau was unable to agree on what this procedure should be and to do anything about this document other than send it to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In addition, the draft 366 is on the agenda of this week and cannot be taken out by the Commission itself; it can only be taken out by the initiator, the government. So this protest has gone to the Commission, which is essentially the subject of a complaint, and then the Commission must look in the mirror. Henn Fieldace, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. We had a certain incident here in the very early hours of the morning taking a break before a vote. When I explain it, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows you to apply for a break until the vote begins and the vote begins with a hammer strike. The President did not take this into account; he argued that this should have been done a long time earlier. We therefore argued here about these rules of procedure, instead of this ten-minute break, for almost three-quarters of an hour, what is right. Now I have the question that, since we have work going on here, both today and all the following days, how can this dilemma be resolved so that the President of the sitting is not able to cross any political group that wishes to take a break. How do we set the moment when we should apply for a break so that we do not have any misunderstandings?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U17	Yeah, I was here during this debate, too, and I think we need to take this dispute to the board to clarify it. There are indeed two different views on the matter. One is that in practice it has always been so that a break is applied for before a call. However, the Rules of Procedure do not create such an obligation, but really say that before the start of the vote, i.e. before the hammer lung. I have a request in today's session that we try to follow current practice, and then we'll see how the board finds it. Riho Breivel, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U18	I basically wanted to ask the same question as Henng. But I have a suggestion that perhaps you and the Bureau will examine this issue and send it to the Commission for review.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U19	I guess the Bureau has to take some kind of view of what this right course of action is, whether we continue with the current practice, or whether we change the current practice. But I have a suggestion that we will continue in today's session as we have always done. Mikhail Stalnukhin has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U20	Yeah, definitely procedural. First of all, let me welcome you. Tonight the record was set: 28 procedural questions from one member of the Riigikogu. It's worth it to fix it somewhere on a granite board in the yard. But I have a procedural question. [[In the diner.]] Mr President! Theoretically and practically, as we understand it, it is possible that in the next three hours...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U21	I hear you, I hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U22	... will ask a black thousand procedural questions and we will simply be in trouble with this and will not be able to carry out the presence check. After that, were we at work or were we not in this room? [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U23	Honourable Mikhail Stalnukhin, as an old wolves of Parliament, you know that the attendance check does not determine whether or not you will be admitted to the hearing, but if you vote or take the floor, you will take a verbatim and show that you have taken part in the hearing. Kalle Grünthal has a procedure, only four.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U24	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very pleased to note that the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has begun to resolve this deadlock. I can say that I myself have consulted the best lawyers in this house myself, and I am happy to say that the real right seems to be on the side of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Thank you for that. We hope that you will involve our specialists in this debate, and perhaps some will become wiser as well, which is precisely written in our Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U25	Kalle, I think everyone will agree that there is no major specialist in procedures in this room. Peter Ernitsa has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U26	Yes, thank you! Last day the Head of the Riigikogu noted here the applause of the Reform Party that we were not in the theatre, and asked to avoid it. But today I heard a moment ago that the applause was back on the right flank. Are we in the theatre or in the Riigikogu now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U27	From my point of view, of course, it's left. But I don't think it's necessary to repeat it to anyone: it's not a theatre. We work in the Riigikogu. Yes, ovation and emotions could be as modest as possible. So, I see that there were no more requests for speaking or should be no more than a zillion and we can go to the messages. Today, after the plenary session, there will be an opening meeting of the oil shale and other Estonian mineral exploration support group in this Chamber, convened by Dmitri Dmitriev. Now we can do a presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U28	74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and 27 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U29	We were in the middle of a previous session of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 212. We were in the middle of the second-reading negotiations. The next person to come to the chair was Tarmo Kruusimäe. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U30	Thank you, good Chairman! First we tie hands and repeat mantra together: there is no corruption in Tallinn, there is no corruption in Tallinn, there is no corruption in Tallinn. And now we can go to this bill. Let's just take it: dealing with influence, interested party, not making any decisions and postponing it is corruption for ordinary people. We are talking here today about people having the right to be elected, to be elected. But this difficult moment, when he should decide whether he would be a parishman or a member of the parish council, is difficult for him. Of course, we can say Latin o tempora, o mores. After all, young people want to postpone this decision, and we will make life easier for them. But what if there are more difficult choices in life? Maybe exercises for an independent life. Why did I want to tell you that there is no corruption in Tallinn? In my opinion, I have seen it many times, and it has been discussed long and wide, but a major paradigm shift took place on 13 January when the government resigned because of the corruption event in Tallinn. Then corruption sort of disappeared and came with a bill that wasn't very supported by the previous government. Obviously, everyone should be able to choose whether they want to be parishmen or members of the parish council. But we are based on this so-called 'everyman's right'. I don't know what's coming here, maybe it's going to be hard and worse, maybe our odds are going to start going down, and then it's going to be said that one day the mayor would have been right for the first night. Well, it's a legitimate cause. It's noble in itself. If we've managed so far, and after long litigation, it turns out that the settlement of the court [of the case] is slowing down, the interest disappears, why is it necessary to discuss it here today? Why did I want to bring you this very beginning? Because we had a lot of interesting moments here tonight. The vice-chairman of the Riigikogu began to discuss whether the speech of the ambassador was substantive or not. That's why I said it in advance: corruption, corruption. Now I can say KOKS. Then I say 212 SE, KOKS, corruption, and then I can tell you what I want. The Board of the Riigikogu came up with the interesting idea that if an ambassador reads a quote from a book, he will not receive an additional three minutes. Well, some people just hate books, well, some people hate pancakes. But anger is not a driving force. We need to treat all paper carriers equally and in the same way. So I would suggest that if someone comes here to report a bill and has paper files with him, he will receive not only 20 minutes for this presentation, but also five minutes for the ambassadors. And, of course, since we're an e-state, people who use an e-reader or a laptop, they get more bonus minutes. I miss three minutes because I want to give these three minutes to the most repressed member of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernits, please take this into account, because he was denied that time. But this bill, it doesn't make any sense. Of course, I would like to congratulate our second vice-chairman, who yesterday, when I asked him if you would expect this session to be a little too long, 12 second readings, said, in a dinner, that there are even longer sessions. Well, there are longer sessions, here we are! Whoever couldn't handle the nerves, it was Hanno. Hanno, I would like to remind you that at the Tallinn Council, Toomas Vitsut was so nervous that he once said: "A break of ten seconds. " It's a long way to go, but don't learn the worst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U31	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U32	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U33	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U34	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitution provides for a council elected on the basis of democratic principles as a representative body of local government. The Constitution therefore provides for a representative democratic internal structure for the local government. This fact results in a number of fundamental consequences for the local government. The existence of the Council as an institution is compulsory. The Constitution designates the Council as the sole body of local government and the second sentence of Article 3 (2) of the ECOH [European Charter of Local Government] provides that the Council or the Council may have executive bodies accountable to it. The formation of an executive or executive body is a matter of organisation of local government, which is described in § 160 of the Constitution. The legislator has been given a discretion in this respect. It may or may not provide for an executive or executive body, as well as establish a uniform procedure for their formation, such as the municipal or municipal administration pursuant to Section 4 (2) of the KOKS. The executive body must be accountable to the council (Article 3 (2) ECOH). Thus, for example, a model is excluded where the executive body directly elected by the rural municipality or the city's residents with the right to vote, or its leader, would be liable only to the electorate. The existence of the Council as an institution is not the same as the question of the validity of the mandate of a specific Council. Nor does it derive from the nature of the body of representation from its exclusive right to represent the local authority in all its relations with other legal entities. The representative body means the local political representative body for the rural municipality and the city. It expresses the principle of democracy set out in Article 1 (1) of the Constitution and Article 3 (2) of the introduction of the ECOH. By the way, the latter also gives rise to the political responsibility of a council member or members as a constitutional value, which is reflected in the fact that the electoral body has the opportunity to assess the activities of the elected council member and the fulfilment of the electoral promises given to them. The Council has the right to decide, within the limits of law and in the interests of the local population, any matter falling within the competence of the local government, unless it is conferred by law on the executive body of the local government. The existence of this right on the council is also provided for in Article 3 of the ECOH and as a political representative body for residents with the right to vote of the local government, the council carries out the most important management and control tasks of the local government: it determines the principles of self-governing administrative organisation on the basis of law and controls the activities of the executive body, including the implementation of its decisions. The competence of the municipality and the city administration is primarily the issue of current administration. The establishment of a specific local government body as a norm address is primarily related to the performance of public tasks, such as "foreign management," and should be relatively exceptional in order not to unduly restrict the authority's rights to resolve internal administrative arrangements at its own discretion. If, by law, the decision on certain matters by virtue of its importance is conferred on the exclusive competence of the Council, the Council shall not be entitled to delegate it to the executive body. Representative democracy is an exceptional form of local self-government, an immediate democracy. However, the Constitution does not prohibit the implementation of direct democracy institutes, such as the local public initiative and vote, the general meeting of the rural or urban population, etc., until the decision-making of a democratically legitimized representative, free and independent of guidelines, is limited to such an extent that it is no longer possible to talk about a functional representative body. For example, [the Small Islands Act] provides for an institution of the General Assembly in which all permanent residents of small islands aged 15 or over are entitled to vote. The General Assembly shall be responsible for coordinating the development plan, the general plan, the general principles of land use, the development of transport connections with the mainland or nearest major island, the regulations of the General Assembly and the procedures for selecting the archipelago, as well as other questions set out in the basic regulation of the local government with an island municipality or island share. The local government council is the constitutional organ of § 156 of the Constitution, if anyone doubts it. It therefore has the right to self-regulation, including the right to design its own internal organisation, as well as the right to establish its own rules of organisation and procedure. However, when exercising its right to self-order, the council must comply with the Constitution and the ECOH norms and principles and laws. In terms of internal structure and organisation, the council, of course, has similar characteristics to Parliament, but it is a collegial political administrative body. Thus, the immunity provided for in § 76 of the Constitution and the principles of idemnitity do not apply to a council member (§ 62 of the Constitution). Unlike members of the Riigikogu, council members do not have the activities of the council as their main work. Such constitutional principles, which I mentioned at the beginning, which lay down the basis for the fundamental activities of local government, have now been supplemented by the judgment of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court of 17 April 2020 in Case No 5-19-45, which repeals § 18 (1) (6) of the KOKS [in breach of the Constitution]. That's the bill we're working on right now. What would I like to say? In conclusion, the Supreme Court considered that the second alternative to § 18 (1) (6) of the KOKS, i.e. the termination of the mandate of a council member in connection with working in the local government administration, is not a necessary means to achieve the objectives. The Court acknowledged, however, that the restriction on combining the work of a council member with that of an official body is justified by the resulting conflict of role, conflict of interest and possible risk of corruption. I would like to conclude my speech with the slogan of Tarmo Kruusimäe by adding a little: there is no corruption in Tallinn and there is no corruption elsewhere in the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U35	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When I asked the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about this draft to Mart Võrguship, his reply to me was relatively arrogant and brief, he simply suggested that the draft be read carefully and limited. My suggestion to him is that he listens first and tries to think a little bit about what the questioner asked. Of course, I understand that tonight has perhaps been a bit frustrating, but it should not, however, affect the debate on a rather important draft law I'm not here to obstruct. I would like the law governing our municipalities, the law on the organisation of local governments to be of high quality and to work for our municipalities. If an employee is the boss of his boss, who is he? That is the kind of controversial situation that this bill is creating at this point in time. This bill certainly does not make the situation clearer or better. I dare say he's actually making the situation more unclear. He makes the management of the municipality more ineffective. This inefficiencies and ambiguities are particularly enhanced when there is a small difference between coalition and opposition votes in the municipality. It might seem like we're sitting in this hall to make it work. But we ourselves are creating conditions that encourage this inefficiency, which may provide additional opportunities for corruption, I would not want to wave very lightly with that word, but we know that we actually have these problems too. We need to think about not creating a situation where there might be a temptation to use our position not to do the right thing. I may be opening the side I was trying to ask the Commission's waitress. Today we are raising or this bill is intended to raise the employee to the level of an elder, mayor or member of a municipality or city government, to give them equal rights. It's not really right. Yeah, it's been a while since he's got to report, but it's actually the use of the cloaked councilman's influence. This is the position of a member of the secret council if we adopt this law in this way. There is also an alternative: we would not take away the constitutional right to stand for election from a good person who is employed in a municipality. Upon receiving a mandate, he or she has the right to decide whether he or she will continue his or her day-to-day work at the municipal or municipal council and to act on this option for the following period. In that case, its powers will expire early on in the council, and that would be fair, understandable, and it would also work clearly and effectively. Therefore, unfortunately, I cannot vote in favour of this draft when it comes to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U37	Thank you very much. Next, please, Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd say a little bit positive about this bill. It is like this tiny step in the fight against corruption, but it does not give rise to too much optimism. Since the rapporteur for this bill was very clear in the language of the decision of the Supreme Court on which the draft has been drawn up and initiated or on the basis of which it has been based, I will dwell in a little more detail on this Supreme Court's decision. By decision of 17 April 2020, the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court found that § 18 (1) (6) of the KOKS violates the passive right to vote of the elected person, namely his right to hold a council member's mandate, and that provision violates the fundamental right to freely choose the profession, profession and job. This fundamental right shall include the right to pursue the relationship of employment or employment which has arisen. In conclusion, the Supreme Court considered that § 18 (1) (6) of the KOKS, the second alternative, i.e. the termination of the mandate of a council member in connection with working in the local government administration, is not a necessary means to achieve the objectives. I now draw special attention to the quote made by the court. The Court acknowledged, however, that the restriction on reconciling the work of a council member with that of an authority is justified by the resulting conflict of role, conflict of interest and possible risk of corruption. According to the Court, a conflict between the mandate of a council member and the interests of the office may jeopardise the functioning of the council. This may prevent a council member from checking the government and its subordinate administrative organisation. Similarly, the simultaneous working of a council member under the authority of the government may affect its decision-making in the council. In addition to the threat to the work of the council, the work of the government and its subordinate administrative organisation is not excluded. In conclusion, the Court considered that the main aim of the prohibition of the reconciliation of agencies was to avoid the risk to the functioning of the Council arising from the conflict of interests between the mandate and the place of employment. It's like a perfectly understandable text. But here I understand from the rapporteur that this text of the bill has not been seen by the Supreme Court, whose decision was based on the draft text. Therefore, we do not have the Supreme Court's assessment of whether the text or the form of the Supreme Court's judgment is resolved in the same way that the Supreme Court has meant in its judgment. But the law must be clear and clear to everyone. This must not lead to legal confusion. It would therefore have been polite and correct to take an opinion or assessment from the Supreme Court as well. I do not know on what grounds or arguments it was abandoned and decided to do so on its own, but I believe that this could lead to legal confusion here. What kind of legal confusion can that be? It is said that there may be a risk of corruption if an official works in a local government institution and the council at the same time. The new draft provides that it will then be possible to suspend the employment relationship with the local government institution. First of all, I wonder how it ties with other laws. If a contract of employment is now suspended, the status of a council member will be four years if that person wishes to return to his place of employment, whether it is guaranteed and whether it is essential, first and foremost, that he or she gets the same job back. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U39	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U40	Does he have to get the exact same job back, or can he get any job in this institution? Secondly, has this version been taken into account when there is a contract of command? What happens then? How does it work? These are the problems that have not been properly thought out, how this bill ties in with other laws. It is also important, as I have often observed in the Riigikogu, that we are responsible for the quality of the laws. There is no point in making a draft if we need to start redecorating and correcting it now. At the moment, it seems that this bill is due to a good intention, but obviously it is not enough, because there are loose ends here, too, that if this official goes from this same institution to work for the council, then basically his contacts and contacts will be preserved. Consequently, it may still not be and may not be objective, independent and neutral in its decisions. We are all human, and this situation cannot be ruled out. At this point, I also think that the matter has not been properly resolved and is incomplete, we still have a major development ahead of us. All these bottlenecks in this regard should also be resolved by this draft. Because, as such, we will not achieve very great and effective results in combating corruption. We'd rather make it look like we're doing a little bit, but it doesn't have any substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U41	Thank you. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U42	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna start with the same sentence that Kert ended up with: there's no substance to this thing. To my regret, I had to admit at the Chancellor of Justice that the Chancellor of Justice is raping there and there, dealing with cute little things, passing by nursing homes, prisons, listening to endless inmates' complaints, just like the Supreme Court, instead of making big decisions on sovereignty, asking big questions. When the right to levy taxes is lifted from the Riigikogu into the Brussels corridors, the Chancellor of Justice nods. If it's an important subject, it's passive. When the right to a referendum was recently struck by the Estonian people, there were no beeps. I'm not surprised if soon our election will be taken away like in 1934 and there won't be any votes. After that, only prisoners' rights will be dealt with. But what is real life? The real thing is that the central party of the government party is under investigation as a party for bribery. A huge elephant is staggering in this very room, with a laughter on his face, it's like nothing's ever happened. Just a million! Only a million people talk about. They just wanted to take two-sided doping if they could prove it. What if it finds proof? Then it's clear we're here with the doping athletes. Some people have to eat mashed potatoes, while others take two syringes to do their own blood. Is this the way to ensure fair political competition? But more examples of real life. The spirit of Elmar Sepa and Ivo Parbus hoveres over Tallinn City Government. It was only when someone was dragged out of the transport department again. I'm losing count all the time, endlessly. And then Jüri Ratas comes and says, "We'll fix ourselves. " Of course, you will correct yourself. I'd like to introduce your dear assistant mayor, Rakvere, who has been convicted of corruption in 2012. He just sent me a note yesterday. By the way, Fatherland, it was your coalition partner. EKRE refused to go to the Rakvere Coalition with such people. But congratulations, Fatherland, you must have been clean and white! Congratulations, Centre Party, you're real magnets, attracting noble people to you! The claim for non-material damage is what I got yesterday. "Dear Anti Half Office. The Premium Attorneys-at-Law client is Andres Jaadla, whose request and authority I will address you in the following. You shared the social media application on 1 June on the Facebook page "Anti Poolamets, Politician" of the city of Rakvere in 2021 with Andres Jaadla as the Estonian National Envoy of the Covenant of Mayors of Europe. The post started with your comment. "The former mayor of Rakvere was convicted of corruption in 2012. But the Central Party rewarded him with Rakvere's deputy mayor's seat. Therefore, EKRE refused to enter the coalition in Rakvere. It's not a problem for the Socks and the Fatherland either. What do you think?" " It was my post. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U43	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U44	It is written that Andres Jaadla is of the opinion that the disclosure of information about him from the criminal record undermines his reputation and taunts his honour and good name. "You've published the customer's data before. " And then another "Actual Camera" clip is quoted, where I sent the same message that Rakvere is led by a person convicted of corruption. And finale ultima, listen up, middle party! "According to the above, the customer requests that you pay unlawful compensation of EUR 10000 for non-material damage caused by the disclosure of the customer's personal data. As you have not responded to the comment given in the complaint "Actual Camera," please pay 11000." This is real life! They're picking on some sort of contract here. The elephant is trampling around the room. You're gonna let this happen. Shame! It's as good as a pedophile coming in and demanding he's gonna have to be the headmaster of kindergarten. And no one can talk about it. No one can talk about this! He was one of the Actors of the Child Welfare League, an advertising man at Res Publica. He got full-on, over ten years for pedophilia. You know, maybe he'll come to you with a lawsuit, say you can't talk. You can't tell me what I did to get more than ten years for the most gruesome crimes. I want to be head of kindergarten now, head of Child Welfare Association. Now that's real life. Real life! Think, ladies and gentlemen, fill your lives with real action! Then the law will actually work. You know, picking on a set isn't gonna help. There's gotta be a conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U45	Thank you. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U46	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are currently processing the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act 212. First of all, I would like to thank all the good people who work on our councils all over Estonia, both council members and members of various committees, and precisely the members of the committees who often contribute for a rather small amount of money to their communities in order to contribute and help manage the municipality. And, of course, thank you all, good members of the Riigikogu, who as members of the Riigikogu also attend local governments and contribute. As we have heard here, there are more than 40 of us here in 101. At the same time, I must come back to what I have already dealt with here in one of the speeches. I have never been a great admirer of the law of these two chairs, but I must admit that, if this is the case now, the members of the Riigikogu must undoubtedly do their best to bring the knowledge and vision that is here on Toompea, to the councils and thereby contribute as effectively as possible to the work of the local government. But let us now come to this bill that we are currently dealing with. A lot of different ideas have already echoed here today. One of these really is in here: basically, a council member could be the boss of his employer. It's one of those things that is incriminating and that needs to be resolved. But there's gonna be an interesting phenomenon here. Suppose that the head of the branch can handle some sort of act that the mayor decides to dismiss him. If earlier it was the case that his council powers had been terminated, then now, according to this bill, he can return to the council, assuming that he was relieved of his office for the reason [that he had done something] that was perhaps not quite right, in essence, he can then come back to the council and may in principle begin to shake the same parish elder by expressing his liking as a member of the council. We often hold councils with pretty delicate, one-to-two people. So there may be a situation where this council member, for example, has a desire to avenge an honest parish leader for being dismissed because of his dishonest actions. That is why, in fact, the law needs to be enforced and reviewed. There's no point in doing it halfway. I think there's something else that needs to be looked at. Some of the regulations concerning the audit committee's activities would also need better reflection and review. I think this bill still needs a calm review, which shouldn't be in a hurry. So let's take some time and think this through nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U47	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll say it's a very interesting experience. Thank you all for this. So many substantive questions, so many very interesting speeches, so much very interesting use of words I have never heard before in this Chamber, but my time has not been very long either. Depends very much on who talks about a lawyer, says scientist, Tarmo Kruusimäe has a very interesting use of words, always takes mouth corners up. So that's very interesting. Thank you. Now let's get down to business. When I said in the case of the previous draft law, 389 SE, that there was no way to understand why this bill had been initiated at all, in the case of this law, 212 SE, I can say that this law I understand and I consider it necessary. It's a shame I didn't get an answer about working under a contract of command, but the third reading is ahead, so maybe this is the opportunity. To explain my thoughts, let me give you a few examples. For example, the teacher, the headmaster, sits in two positions, the director and a member of the council, sometimes even the chairman of the council. And then we start twisting each other, who gets more who's entitled to more. In rural areas, it is often the one who is dating, who is related to, who is subordinate to, and so on. All that matters is whether the audition committee is with or without eggs. That's how this corruption begins and deepens. Often it may not even be understood that this is corruption because it has always been so. Or we could get a parish official. The official must comply with the law and the order of the parish elder. I know of a case where an official on the council began to dictate to the mayor what to do and how to do, and eventually the council became the place where they settled the score. It is very difficult to find out how to maintain peace on earth, but life goes on. So I think this is a step in the right direction of the bill. I agree with Henn Põlluaasa and also with my benchmate that when preparing the laws, you should at least try to see the whole picture rather than grind the individual fragments of the mosaic, as we usually do here. Nevertheless, I dare say that this law has taken a step in the right direction. As we are told, let's go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U49	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U50	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Many expectations have been raised throughout society in the run-up to the forthcoming elections: better roads, social welfare, schools and kindergartens. But it is no less important [these topics], and I would argue that expectations, especially at local level, are high, in terms of corruption. There has been undoubted progress in this process of liquidation. But the truth is, corruption is as old as society, and being in power and being in it still tempts people. Of course, different laws can reduce it and limit it to penalties. But there is one law, namely Murphy's law, he has many, but one of them says that the adoption of every new law will lead to finding and finding new ways to circumvent these laws. The discussion of this draft law already described a couple of options that this law does not produce but allows for hidden further. The question is not so much that things seem right, but they must also be right. Yes, a municipal employee who has so far worked on detailed planning with a contract of employment is, of course, popular and well known among many citizens of local government in connection with his or her position. After all, everyone goes to him to file their real estate documents or to file their wishes. And in the municipal elections, he will definitely be elected to a council on a list of certain groups, such as a list of some major parties. He will be elected and will have an overwhelming coalition with his list, who will have sole authority in the municipality, and have his former post appointed as his friend, with whom detailed plans will then be processed. A friend's official says, for example, that a brother here needs to change some kind of detailed plan. He turns to a friend of the Commissioner, it organises a favourable vote in the council and voilà. According to this bill, everyone made the right legal warlock and everything is again, as they say, kosher. As the explanatory memorandum states that this law is necessary to avoid a conflict between the mandate of a council member and the interests of the office which could decide on the functioning of the council, it is nevertheless clear from the previous example that the problems with this law have been reduced in a seemingly and even joki way, but according to Murphy's law, conflict of interest and corruption are still going on. As regards what threatens or does not endanger the functioning of the Council, it does not, in fact, take away that threat to the Council either. When human weaknesses take over and take hold of what can be taken, once there is corruption, it also comes out that things become public. You don't keep the Corruption Candle down. And the work of the council is literally in danger. The lines of power are replayed and the local government's daily work and decision-making process are disrupted for a while. But, of course, if there is enough majority and only power, as we have in one of the largest municipalities, for example, city power will not fall. The Commissioner takes responsibility and leaves the council. And where's he going? According to this law, he's going back to his former job in the detail planning department, because this law allows it all and everything goes on the old way. I'm asking for a moment's extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U51	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U52	As it has become clear in the course of a thorough discussion here that this is not a very good draft, we are therefore proposing an interruption on behalf of the EKRE Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U53	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Good listeners! For the second time in today's marathon session, I regret that the law on the organisation of local governments [the amending law] deals with good old fine-tuning rather than making a full overhaul. Speaking of this bill 212, this is not the ideal solution. As the above speakers have already mentioned, there is a conflict of interest written in here. By choosing to stay in the municipality's sub-office with a contract of employment and therefore to suspend the mandate of a member of the municipality's council, the person retains an indirect influence on the council according to the new regime, because in many, especially in smaller municipalities, the balance of votes depends on only one vote and can therefore easily fluctuate here and there. Imagine now a situation where a person, an employee of a municipality sub-office whose council member's mandate has been suspended, has to be dismissed from the municipality's office because of some crap. The person restores his authority in the municipal council, comes back to the council and votes down immediately after the councillor's mandate has been restored with the opposition. Or a situation in which a staff member remains at his/her place of employment at the municipal sub-office after the election, but at the same time he/she is able to pressure the person who is to be admitted to the council as his/her alternate to make decisions on the council that the person would otherwise not do, or to organise other conspirative activities in cooperation. But there are still bottlenecks. At the previous point concerning KOKS, I spoke at night about the capacity of the municipalities and the obligations imposed on them, about the problems in the audit committees. Jaak Valge spoke earlier about bringing the opportunities of direct democracy to the level of the local government, which is essential. It's a long time ago. In local governments, at least in smaller ones, direct democracy is currently working on the 'force' method. In social media, in the local Facebook group, where the parish people are inside, these things are read by the mountains. The direct feedback from the local community, which reaches the manager of the municipality, often changes some of the decisions that were otherwise certain in the past. So it is definitely ripe for direct democracy in Estonian local governments and the people are looking forward to it. There is also a need for better regulation of the use of municipal assets or for better monitoring mechanisms, including the question of the aforementioned audit committee. In this case, there are municipalities in Estonia where the municipality or city has become essentially a local commercial shark piggy bank, which is simply constantly squeezed into its purse, whether it be the property, contracts or detailed plans of the municipality. Good Riigikogu, let's not go into fine-tuning! We have many issues to resolve with COKS in the interests of better functioning, transparency and greater autonomy of local governments. There are plenty of municipal proposals. Let's get these things straightened out quickly! Estonia does not start here from Toompea, but from every village or rural municipality centre. Municipalities must become real local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U55	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U56	Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U57	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U58	Dear Riigikogu! We are currently in the middle of the second reading of the Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act. We're talking about bill 212. I would like to point out one point in this draft law, which states: "A member of the Volikogu who, on 20 July 2021, works for the same rural municipality or city authority on the basis of a contract of employment must, within three working days of that date, inform the parish or city secretary whether he wishes to take part in the work of the council or to continue working for the same rural municipality or city authority on the basis of a contract of employment. If a person wishes to continue working with an authority or does not declare within the time limit that he or she wishes to take part in the work of the council, the mandate of his or her member of the council shall be suspended.'; Okay. This is a key point in this draft, which, among other things, has led to disputes and ambiguities, particularly in relation to the risks of corruption. Once again, while looking at the work of the local government more broadly and linking it to the historical context, there was a very interesting development of thought in the previous item, which concerned the role of the members of the European Parliament and of the local government and whether and how many of them can overlap or whether there can be some kind of loyalty conflict between them. In order to bring the game back into a wider historical context, I sought out the 1959 Book of the People's Envoy Handbook, which is also an interesting historical document in this sense, that it focuses primarily on the local level of the Soviet system, which in the Soviet Union included village councils, town councils and their executive committees. In order to illustrate how the system itself and the different parameters and characteristics of the system do not mean and do not give an idea of whether it is a democratic or non-democratic, totalitarian system, I would quote here precisely page 97, which describes the connection of the Soviet local MP with his constituency. It says this: "The activities of the ambassadors are not limited to participation in the work of the Executive Committee and standing committees of the Council sittings and its bodies. They also carry out extensive organisational work in their constituency. The electoral district is the centre of the mass explanation and organization of the ambassador with the voters. The people's ambassador's contacts with his constituents are through the electoral district. What is the constituency? According to the Constitution of the Estonian SSR and the current Soviet electoral system, elections are held to the councils of Estonian workers' ambassadors according to the electoral circles. This means that for each Council to be elected, the territory of the respective Council is divided into constituencies according to a set of standards, and each electoral electorate elects one representative for that Council. Thus, the people of each constituency have a representative in the respective Council and each ambassador has a specific constituency. It follows that all the work of the ambassador among the voters must take place and take place in the constituency. This is where he meets his voters, receives them at a fixed time and place, explains to voters the party and government policies, presents the decisions of the Council, mobilises voters to solve the tasks facing the Council, implement the party and government policies, reports to voters on the work of both his and the respective councils. Consequently, according to the electoral circles in local Soviet elections, the organisation of the work of ambassadors is of great practical importance. In such an election procedure, any voter who represents him or her in the Council, whose activities he or she controls, who he or she may address in social matters as well as, where appropriate, with personal problems and concerns, and through whom he or she can communicate with the Council. The ambassadors are also aware of the voters from whom they received their powers, whom they represent in the Council, with whom they have to communicate, with whom they have to report. However, the elections, which follow the electoral circles, also give rise to some peculiarities in the area of communication between the MP and the electorate and the organisation of the work of the ambassador. First, voters belong to the electoral district, not by their place of work, but by their place of residence. As a result, the MP communicates with their constituents through their place of residence. It should also be noted here that the ambassador's own place of residence and work may not coincide with the electoral district either. All of this puts its seal on the ambassador's work in the constituency. Secondly, as the ambassador communicates with his constituents through their place of residence, the electoral citizens who settled on the territory of the electoral district of that Member shall exercise all rights similar to those of the citizens who lived there during the elections and shall become voters of that Member in that sense. Thirdly, the organisation of the work of a national envoy in the constituency, its forms and methods of employment in this area, depend largely on the size of the electoral district. The electoral districts are the same in the same Council elections. More or less the same size are the electoral districts in the Soviet elections that form part of the same Council. However, there are very large differences in the size of the constituencies in the different parts of the local councils. For example, in towns and village councils with more than 2000 inhabitants, there are 100 inhabitants in each constituency, in cities, with between 12000 and 100000 inhabitants in each constituency of 350 inhabitants, Tallinn has formed one electoral district for every 1000 inhabitants." To comment on this, this text illustrates very thoroughly how massive a project can be undertaken by a totalitarian system in order to demonstrate apparent democracy. And if there is still a risk of corruption here in this draft, I will leave it open and for historians to discuss whether corruption was common in Estonia during the Soviet occupation, in a situation where the whole regime was illegal in fact, as Estonia was occupied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U59	Thank you. The next word will be Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The strong desire is to take over this role, which was here in Mr Kruusimäe, and to shout out loud: no, we do not have corruption in Estonia! There is no corruption in Estonia! There is no corruption in Estonia. There has not been any money laundering, there has not been an affair with the Port of Tallinn, there has not been neither Porto Franco nor Autorollot, there have been no suspicious transactions in all the decades that the Republic of Estonia has existed. There is no corruption in Estonia. There are just legal ambiguities. Legal ambiguities that sometimes give the impression that people have conflicts of interest. Well, for example, people who are chiefs of government or municipal government, legislators, work just like they do, or vice versa. It's not like we've ever had any hustling with detailed plans. After all, we have never had any pranks by rethinking the land's purpose. Never. They are absolutely excluded, which is why the previous government fell, just as it did, even though we know that it fell for quite another reason. But in fact, what has happened to the same story of Porto Franco? Nothing's happened. Nothing's happened! It's forgotten. Something like there was someone paying someone to get some kind of land repurpose and access facilitation. There were rumors. Rumors led to the launch of a major information operation in the press and rumours and information operation, the previous Prime Minister was shocked and resigned. But we don't have corruption. There is no corruption in the Republic of Estonia. It's an axiom. In fact, we all know that corruption in the Republic of Estonia is endemic. Endemic! It's everywhere. This is, on the one hand, due to our moral relativism. And by the way, we've seen this moral relativism in this hall even today. Yesterday, we saw this moral relativism in this Chamber when, after the applause of our group, it was said that the Chamber of Riigikogu is not a theatre hall, but nothing was said about the applause of the Reform Party. There was also applause here today. There was no mention that the Riigikogu was not a theatre hall. Isn't this a small-to-small manifestation of moral relativism? But this moral relativism actually starts to pave the way for corruption, because between our own, well, what's there so badly, we all know who's who we're agreeing on. As a popular parish official who has dealt with all these land measurements and transactions, I know everyone in the field, everyone knows me in the parish, I let myself be elected to the parish council. But since we have people with fingertips and capable people living here who could take over my job at the parish government, there is no one but one of my relatives... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U61	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U62	... then it is self-evident that, on my recommendation and with the approval of the rest, my former job will be the same as my cousin. But I know exactly when I'm not looking at his fingers because I've been doing this job. And he knows exactly when we drive home with the car, what we have to discuss and where we need to make decisions just as we need to. And if someone says that there is no such thing in Estonia, this person does not live in Estonia. So this person lives somewhere, I don't know, on the islands of Oceania, and he doesn't know anything about what's going on in Estonia. That is precisely what I drew attention to when I asked the Commission's rapporteur. The Commission's waitress beat up the remote control twice in a row and said that it was all bullshit, there is no such thing, and this bill does not give the opportunity to create and implement such a thing at the level of councils and local authorities. But that's the way it is. It all starts with moral relativism, it all starts with everything being allowed for our own, but in the case of strangers, we're going to complain, make anonymous letters, knock on a familiar police officer, a co-poshnik, a prosecutor, a judge, anyone, because he's not his own, he's interfering with what's self-evident between his own. This is the reality of Estonia. If this reality in Estonia is overlooked, then such drafts will be born, which in itself is the right motivation, but in our circumstances, which, as it is most likely to be approved in this Chamber, will not work in such a way as to rule out all these abuses, conflicts of interest and agreements behind the tent. I will tell you again, because Tarmo Kruusimäe here, in a very vexatious way, called out that there was no corruption in Tallinn. I will also tell you what told me by a person who has resigned from the office of the City Government of Tallinn, how agreements are actually made in Tallinn to organise the provision and acceptance of money or other benefits. They're not born on the phone, they're not even born walking down the street. They're born somewhere where it's thought there's no wiretapping, there's no witnessing, there's paper written on it. Then one half will write on the paper and then the other half will write on the paper until an agreement is reached and the paper will be destroyed right there. There's no trail left. There's no way to go to court, there's no way to prove anything, and then things are going through completely legal procedures, but everyone gets their pleasure. This is the reality of Estonia. Quoting Juhan Liivi: "These were Estonian monsters. These were Estonia's circumstances. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U63	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. My colleague Mart spoke of lemons who remember. What about the bill? Yeah, it's pretty nice, but as I asked the bill waitress, isn't it like a low flight? But now a little bit closer, what was the move? I speak without too much detail, although I can also describe these numbers and things. The Chancellor of Justice approached the Riigikogu with the same problem that I am not talking about. Riigikogu voted 37:31 off this proposal. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise went on to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court decided by the way that the chairman of this college was the current President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve, and now we are back here. It is interesting to look at these Riigikogu excerpts of 88 points, which there is what anyone thinks. For example, the Minister of Justice, it happened to be the former kapo and the director general of the Police Department, Raivo Aeg. Some of the things he thought about it. "Customs suspension affects the right of a person to hold a mandate just as intensively, but it is not an equally effective measure. " One of the points. The second point: "The application of the Chancellor of Justice is admissible, but the contested provision is compatible with the Constitution. " I recall that the Chancellor of Justice spoke the other way around. The third, which I quote from the former Minister for Justice's assessment of this matter, is that "the vertical weight of power may arise where power, resources and information are concentrated in the hands of the same people. " This is what my colleague Mart Helme was figuratively talking about here, and I am not going to repeat it. So what's my assessment of this? It's a nice little bill in itself, but it's kind of suffocating. Those people it concerns... By the way, about the bill, as mentioned here, Mart Võrguship said that there is no impact analysis, it is not known how many it concerns, and all that. Let's just do it. I do not doubt that there is any need for clarity, and I acknowledge the Chancellor of Justice that he has come here with this initiative, as before. And that's all we've done. Let me remind you of one or two things. One was when landowners fighting nature conservation were beetd here for years, and they died. Then the Chancellor of Justice came here with his proposal to allocate a little more money so that people could also receive a small compensation before they died. That's one thing. The other thing was what Helmen Hunter knows well here and what was ridiculous. It was in place since Eiki Nestor's time. They were reading machines and diapers for people living in nursing homes, etc. Those people's people had been beating them up for decades, and only when the Chancellor of Justice came here, we fixed it. But I'd like to talk about something else. I saw that on 15 December 2015, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas gave an interview with Sakala, where he told us how our state budget has grown 67 times in 23 years. But what did Taavi say in the garment? "As far as the new budget is concerned, I very much liked the fact that its adoption did not involve much debate in Parliament. The opposition did not propose fundamental amendments and the ambassadors did not have to sit at night sessions for hours. The process was very smooth. " And what conclusion did the Prime Minister draw? Estonia has reached the age of fine-tuning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U65	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U66	Yeah, three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U67	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U68	Okay. It's been six years. The Taavi in the garment is unknown where the waves of life are. But this very fine-tuning spirit is floating today in Kaja Kallas' government, in this hall. Fine-tuning, yeah, little thing, let's do it! Yesterday was a matter of the Financial Supervision Authority, a little thing. The Supreme Court had cornered the Financial Supervision Authority or given it, saying in rural language, to beat up and then they came to Erki Savisaar to the chest of the Finance Committee and came to the bill with a small, low flight, fine-tuning. Now the same thing: Supreme Court under the chairmanship of the Supreme Court. Now Toomas Kivimäe, who is the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was brought to his chest, and the draft came, and the leader of the Reform Party Group, presented to us, a good Mart. Jne, et cetera. But what's really going on? Yesterday morning we talked to the Chancellor of Justice, talked about the big things we should do. The administrative reform has been made great, in fact, we should move the other way around. State budget. Today, six years later, everyone has understood, we even have a support group to understand the state budget. And Taavi Rõivas cheered for fine-tuning, and Parliament did not make any proposals. The thing is, it was like the King's new clothes. Parliament, people do not understand what is in this budget at all, so to date it is. It should be fixed. We also recently met Attorney General Parmas. And when we spoke, we asked why the investigation was biased, and it seems that the DA's office is carrying out orders, the State Attorney General replied: you have created such a fucked-up system. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we! I don't know who. But the coalition hasn't come up with such things. I am not going to talk about the state reform of Jüri Raidla, there are too many officials. Should be a lot of moaning. But we're picking on little things here, we're still doing fine-tuning, even though Taavi Kõivas has long gone. But this spirit, the suffocating spirit, is floating in this house today, also on this beautiful summer day. That's too bad! Should fly higher, dear coalition mates! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U69	Mart Helme, is it a reply request?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U70	Yeah. As my name has been mentioned, I would like to thank the previous speaker and to say, either to satisfy the interest of all the listeners or to clarify, that my very visual vision, my vision, is probably due to the fact that I have had a very deep interest in the art of the Far East for decades, where, as you all know, the generalisation of the details, as well as the details, is very important and crucial.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U71	Thank you. Uno Kaskpeit, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U72	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitution provides for a council elected on the basis of democratic principles as a representative body of the local government. The Constitution therefore provides the local government with a representative democratic internal structure. This fact results in a number of fundamental consequences for the local government. The existence of the Council as an institution is compulsory. In the Constitution, a council is appointed as the sole body of the local government. The second sentence of Article 3 (2) of [ECOH] provides that the Council or the Council may have executive bodies accountable to it. The formation of executive bodies is a matter of organisation of the local government (§ 160 of the Constitution). The legislator has a discretion in this respect: it may or may not provide for executive bodies, and it may also establish a uniform procedure for their formation. According to § 4 (2) of the [KOKS], the municipality or city government is the executive body of the local government. The executive body must be accountable to the council (Article 3 (2) of [ECOH]), thus excluding, for example, a model in which the executive body or its head directly elected by residents with the right to vote of the municipality or city would be liable only to the electorate. The existence of an institution of the Council is not the same as the question of the validity of the mandate of a specific formation of the Council, nor does the nature of the Council give rise to its exclusive right to represent the local government in all its relations with other legal entities. The representative body means the local political representative body for the rural municipality and the city. It expresses the principle of democracy (Article 1 (1) of the Constitution, introduction of ECOH, Article 3 (2)). The latter also gives rise to the political responsibility of the members of the council as a constitutional value, which is demonstrated by the fact that the electoral body has the opportunity to assess the activities of the elected council members and the fulfilment of the electoral promises they have made. The Council has the right to decide, within the limits of law and in the interests of the local population, any matter falling within the competence of the local government, unless it is conferred by law on the executive body of the local government. The existence of this right on the council is also provided for in Article 3 of the ECOH. As the political representative body of the local government residents with voting rights, the council carries out the most important management and control tasks in the local government: it determines the principles of self-governing administrative organisation on the basis of law and supervises the activities of the executive body, including the implementation of its decisions. The competence of the municipality and the city administration is primarily the issue of current administration. The establishment of a specific body of local authorities as a norm is primarily related to the fulfilment of public tasks (so-called "foreign management') and should be relatively exceptional in order not to unduly restrict the right of local authorities to resolve internal administrative arrangements at their own discretion. If, by law, the decision on a particular issue is assigned to the exclusive competence of the Council because of its importance, the Council does not have the right to delegate it to the executive body. Representative democracy is the main form of direct democracy of the local government. However, the Constitution does not prohibit the implementation of direct democracy institutes (local public initiative and vote, general meeting of rural and urban residents, etc.) until the decision-making of a democratically legitimised representative, free and independent of guidelines, is limited to such an extent that it is no longer possible to talk about a functional representative body. Thus [the Small Islands Act] provides for an institution of the General Assembly in which all permanent residents of small islands aged 15 or over are entitled to vote (§ 5 (2)). The General Assembly shall be responsible for coordinating the development plan, the general plan, the general principles of land use, the development of transport connections with the mainland or the nearest major island, the regulations of the General Assembly and the procedures for selecting the archipelago, as well as other questions set out in the basic regulation of the local government (§ 5 (1)). The local government council is a constitutional body ( § 156 of the Constitution). It therefore has the right to self-regulation, including the right to design its own internal organisation, as well as the right to establish its own rules of organisation and procedure. By exercising its right to self-order, the council must respect the Constitution and the ECOH norms and principles and laws. In its internal structure and organisation, the council has similar features to Parliament, but it is a collegial political administration. Thus, the principles of immunity (§ 76 of the Constitution) and [indemnity] do not apply to a council member (§ 62 of the Constitution). Unlike members of the Riigikogu, the activities of the council members are not the main work of the council. Although the current law (KOKS) does not regulate electronic forms of work for the council, their use is not contrary to the law. This question of the rules of procedure of the council can be regulated by the council in the municipal or city statutes (in its own rules of procedure). In practice, electronic forms of work have been implemented in many councils. The use of electronic forms of work in the Council's activities became particularly topical in exceptional circumstances. It's about time, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U73	20 minutes left or 20 seconds, sorry! [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U74	No. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U75	Thank you. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U76	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U77	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As this draft does not deal with the financial system, I am unable to speak here about the future of the global financial system, where I left off at night. Also, since this draft does not deal with parliamentaryism or politics at national level, I am also unable to talk more about the obstructions and road rollers that I was talking about. But I'd still like to make a little bit of a clarification here. All the time limits I gave at night are competent if no ambassador other than the members of the EKRE Group, as if it were not in the Chamber, they would not be taking part in anything here for the entire time, which is obviously not true. But now that we have reached the local government level, I have a good opportunity to analyse the management of crisis and wartime at regional and, in particular, local government level, how we stand with it and what we could and should do. What happened after the administrative reform? Such a basic thesis, which I would point out, is that strong municipalities have become even stronger, but weaker municipalities, which were weak before, have remained weak. This inequality, for which this reform has taken place, has not disappeared. Rural areas are emptying, new parish centers are far from people. I myself come from a small village in the Climate that once belonged to the rural municipality of Orava, and now this small village is part of Võru municipality. But it's enough if I say that the climate village is 10 kilometers away from Petser, you'll even know how far it is from Võru. Just territories are very large, this criterion of 5000 people determined that very large local authorities were created in sparsely populated areas. But in security, one of the biggest problems is the disappearance of the intermediate level, or rural governments, and 15 rural governments disappeared. I myself think that 15 rural governments per country the size of Estonia are a little too many, but four rural governments would be optimal. How do we actually run the chain right now? Let's just say that from the Prime Minister whose working body is the State Chancellery, this chain of management runs essentially directly to 78 local government units. Maybe there's a leader in times of crisis and war with 78 employees. We all realize it doesn't work that way. How has this crisis management now taken place during the current COVID crisis? Luckily, there's been a good level here in the meantime, the regional structures of the Rescue Board. We have four regional structures. I will, of course, also take the opportunity here to thank the good rescue officers for their contribution to the COVID crisis and, in particular, for this effort in regional governance, regional crisis management. But what is the reward for their achievement? Within the framework of the cut-off plan, three commandos are going, fortunately, this has not yet been decided, but theoretically you could go down. I told you before, you can't drive like this. Well, this structure works or worked during the current crisis. But what about a much tougher crisis, that is, a military crisis? We have the militias as a governing body, they are part of the structure of the Defence League. But who will carry out general management during crisis and war periods on any territory, who would be the interface between the Prime Minister This level is not present, and the only level that can do anything at all is two structures: I mentioned these same regional structures of the Rescue Board and the headquarters of the militias. But they can't take over all civilian control under the terms of the war, they have their missions. Some civil structure must lead these municipalities, be that link. But there's no connection, and there's no telling it's gonna happen. This is the most serious problem here, which we should find some sort of solution to. Unfortunately, I don't see that solution on the horizon right now. When we had a national defence law here, which unfortunately the new government has also withdrawn, we did a great job. More than a million euros of taxpayers' money was spent to create this law, and it took four years. We here, four of the frame forces who we are on the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu, including our fellow Member John, have been working for several months and have proposed amendments. But what happened? It'll never make it to second reading, because the government of the Republic took it back. Of course, among these proposals we also addressed this problem among many other problems that still need to be resolved. Nor can we act that if a great deal of work is done, this work will simply be destroyed. Those critical points that have arisen in relation to the current government, I have accumulated a great deal. I was also critical of the previous government that made its mistakes. I'd expect the mistakes the previous government made to be learned. But it hasn't happened. On the contrary, there will be more mistakes. That is unfortunate. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U79	Thank you very much. Oudekki Loone, please! Now be careful not to be branded a useful or harmful idiot.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U80	Thank you. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U81	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U82	You know, Mr. Peter Ernits is wrong. This ain't no fine-tuning, it ain't no little thing. This is exactly what has been said about democracy in this Chamber repeatedly, Mr Helme, mentioned by Merry Aart, who speaks so inflammatoryly about local governments. That is actually also the question of Leo Kunnas, because when we talk about local governments, when we talk about people who work for their local people, that is where our defence base comes from. If we treat people unequally there, if we create a situation where the person whose municipality pays for snow in the winter can no longer belong to the council, he can no longer participate in democracy, but, at the same time, the person who works simply in the private sector from whom he is bought in, he may belong, it is fundamentally unfair. This is the kind of system that says that if you're a capitalist, you're fine, you can be on the council, but if you're an employee, you can't. Of course, I am extremely pleased that our Supreme Court decided that listen, this cannot continue. Riigikogu, do something, it's extremely unfair. And here we do, here we have thought through how to actually implement the Supreme Court's decision. We have discussed this issue thoroughly. Firstly, the question that I mentioned: the issue of workers and entrepreneurs, whom we are treating completely differently at the moment. We also discussed, among other things, several times in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that our law cannot be one that treats any group unequally. The principle of equal treatment is one of the fundamental principles of our constitution. We'll follow it. Our constitution says that we have two important groups with group-specific rights: workers and entrepreneurs equally. But somehow local governments don't view them as equal. This is what we are correcting now, and this judgment we are actually putting it into practice rationally by law. Well, here, of course, you can ask another very important question. I have the feeling that Mrs Moonika Helme has mentioned issues concerning the loyalty of officials, the impartiality of officials, the loyalty of officials to the state and the municipality, not biased towards any political view. There was also this question, which was very clearly raised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. All right, we can solve the employees' question very easily, just as the Supreme Court's decision refers to it. We say yes, workers have the same right, those who plant flowers, who take care of computers, who push snow, put snow gates somewhere, accountants, all such people. Yes, we do not know whether it provides this service as an entrepreneur or whether it is at work. We treat them equally. They both have the right and the opportunity to exercise the mandate they have received from their people. What about the officials? Basically, they work in the municipality. Does it really matter if it's the person who coordinates social services, for example, compared to the person who coordinates computer maintenance? Does it make a big difference that in one case we restrict their rights to exercise the mandate of our people that we say you're either on the council or you earn money to support your family? Among other things, I have to say that there is one way to solve this problem, of course, that we say: yes, also doing work in the municipal council is so important that it can be paid so that people do not have this problem. If I am a member of the parish council, I am a member of the local government council, I will be compensated for my former salary. I can take my time to give [bet] to the people of my home village, my hometown, my hometown. This could also be an opportunity for social workers, where we can see that there is a conflict of interest, there is a risk of corruption. If the official who implements social assistance, social policy, and at the same time decides on the distribution of money, if he decides on these long strategic decisions, then there may be a conflict of interest. That's right. That's not what a planter does. Those who singly push the snow in the winter do not have this conflict of interest that arises directly from the authority. It was also a long debate that the official is still the one who actually exercises power. You don't exercise power over a flower. But if you're in charge of social work, you're exercising power. That was the difference. But they're both citizens, and when they get a mandate, they're both. In fact, our country could think about it, we could think about whether we can find the way that all the good people who are in our municipalities and there are actually few people in many small municipalities, that we don't put them in front of this choice, whether you're participating in democracy, whether you're actually making your city or rural municipality or district life better, and then at the same time you have to think about where you get a rich husband, so your family doesn't die there. In this case, the kind of mechanism that, yes, I'm going there, I'm going to be a member of the parish council to get rich, can't be like this thing. No, it'll take your former salary level and compensate you for the salary level you had. This would also make it possible to actually give those who work as an official today the choice that yes, I am running for office and I actually get to have no decoy party, I can actually decide on this issue. That is one question that was really decided by today's bill. Yes, as long as we do not have this mechanism and we have officials who exercise power, so far we will only solve this problem of workers and capitalists. This is where we solve it, so it's actually feasible. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this question of officials and the question of honest compensation for people who give their time, for the sake of their place of residence, their professional knowledge, our energy, we could also reasonably compensate for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U83	Thank you very much. Now there was a whole series of points. I must point out that only one line can be made in the negotiations in the case of lines. I can give the floor to those who have still not been able to avail themselves of this opportunity. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U84	Thank you. Since I was mentioned, I would like to say that there is no way to do this without local government where I come from. I stick to the idea that we often grind the individual fragments of the mosaic, but we don't think about the whole. But if we do not think about the whole, it will not be possible for the local government to play this role in the development of its people [for good], its region. That's what we should work for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U85	You, Mart, have a line, I can't give you the floor. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U86	Thank you, good Oudekk, for a positive mention. You were a member of the National Defence Commission at the time when we dealt with the same 112 SEs, and indeed we made it through the definition of national defence tasks, both local authorities and the same intermediate level, which we traditionally called county government. But as a matter of sadness, we haven't gotten anywhere. It is a disappointment that the government, where your own party partners are partners, simply took it back, the work we did was so-called destroyed. I'm sorry, but there's nothing to do!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U87	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U88	Thank you! My first line is that when I told you how the Chairman of the Council of Tallinn, Toomas Vitsut, gave ten seconds for the break, I still protested at the time over this decision, not over the person, so that no one would have such an idea. Later, we had Toomas Vitsut as chairman of the European Union Affairs Commission and, while travelling with the European Union Affairs Commission in Georgia or Georgia, we had a lot of measurements between us for ten years, and it was good and fun to remember them. The second line I'd like to say. Maybe we're creating an illusion here that a nice, nice person will lose his job, but we're not talking about what's going on about forced partying in Tallinn and how a social official will hand the right flyers to the needy. 'Cause otherwise, maybe the help won't be enough for everyone. And that's the problem we want to fight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U89	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U90	Thank you, good manager and Oudekki too. I mean, Oudekki, you have like bigger wings and a wider soul. But I stick to my opinion that all this is, unfortunately, fine-tuning, patching holes, this draft European Parliament, as well as this 212 draft, which is due to the so-called judicial decision of the Financial Supervision Authority. But the truth is, big things aren't done. The same argument made by the Attorney General that you yourself have created a faulty system that allows political orders to be executed and biased, etc. That's what I mean. The air near the earth doesn't move as much as it wants to breathe more, more so-called light and air.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U91	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U92	Yeah, thanks! Good Oudekki mentioned me in his excellent speech. He is always ardently out for people, for equal treatment, and for the protection of the weaker. I really like it. Oudekki was talking about the principle of equality here. But I would say in particular that local authorities should be able to treat their inhabitants equally, regardless of how big or small they are, how rich or poor they are. For example, to ensure that disabled children receive equal access to all services across Estonia. This should be the goal of all of us, of all local governments and also of the state. Oudekki mentioned the loyalty of officials in his speech. I always support it with regard to the locals, my residents. He mentioned the right of officials, justice again, in the direction of simple people, and I support it. He mentioned the wisdom of officials still [in support] in solving the problems of his people fairly. In all of this, I'm on a boat with Oudek.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U93	Okay. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U94	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, both in the hall and behind the screen! There is nothing to do, although these words may not be too easy to come across, but I would like to give sincere credit to the previous Government of the Republic for both this draft, which has been initiated by the previous government, and the draft law, which has been much discussed today, 366. I sincerely say that I thank Mr Helme for initiating this bill 366. Thank you very much for that. The same bill is now in the Chamber, and today's coalition is trying to complete this work. That's not irony. This is not an irony said because I am in favour of such a country, a strong country that can quickly and effectively detect crimes. That is what ABIS has to do. I am actually in favour of a country where databases are very secure. These databases, which are today in the relevant field, 8 + 1 different database, have been built on a platform that was 10 to 15 years ago. I'll tell you straight. Some of them are collapsing. ABIS will correct this error and it will become much safer. But this, this is just one reference to it. Recognition and thanks to the previous government for initiating this draft! This bill 212, which is currently on the table, is exactly the same. I think this is a very good draft. This is a very good bill, and I am not ashamed to say that this bill has been initiated by the previous Government of the Republic. Because this conflict is obvious and there is. The decision of the Supreme Court states that this provision that a person working in a local government authority on the basis of a contract of employment must waive his or her mandate as a member of a council is unconstitutional. Perhaps you will remember that when we were talking about Members of the European Parliament, I mentioned that you perhaps did not take it too seriously at the time that these restrictions on passive voting rights must be very seriously justified. The same judgment of the Supreme Court is an example of where they were not justified. This is the reason why the Supreme Court annulled and declared unconstitutional the provision that a worker working on the basis of a contract of employment in a local government council had to waive his or her mandate in the council. What's interesting and what I'd be excited to hear and find out is why the bill was stuck. It was read here in this Chamber on 16 September 2020, a little less than a year ago. The first reading was completed. The deadline for submitting amendments was 18 September 2020 and no amendments were received. But for some reason, this bill didn't make it to this hall. For me, this is genuinely incomprehensible and incomprehensible, because the decision of this Supreme Court gave an additional period of six months during which it was asked to bring this provision into line with the Constitution, or roughly to approve the same bill that is on the table today, but for some reason it was not done by 17 October 2020. I don't think that's correct. I'll be honest with you, I don't really know what the reason was. There's one reason I can assume. One reason may have been that, indeed, this draft now only concerns employees working under a contract of employment, that their powers do not end in accordance with this bill but stop. That's a completely different level of regulation. But where is this dispute? I read one of the minutes in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is indeed a matter for officials. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U95	Three minutes? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U96	It's a matter of officials. I'm telling you quite honestly, I don't know where the truth is about officials. When I read these minutes, perhaps there was one reason that Mr Siim-Valmar Kiisler, at least according to the protocol of this Committee on Constitutional Affairs, did not support the principle that officials should stop and not end, as the law provides. It seems to me that a coalition party in both the previous government and today's government obviously wanted more. This, of course, is known more clearly and better by the people and ministers of the previous coalition. But sincerely, I would be very happy to know what that reason might have been. Why did this bill stop? Because it is a decision of the Supreme Court and I think it is a well-founded decision. We can't argue about the Supreme Court's decision. But once again, it is too disproportionate to get a mandate to a council, you work for the same council authority on the basis of a contract of employment, and you have to give up your mandate. It's not correct. Indeed, this bill offers the possibility that you will not give up your mandate, but you will suspend your powers. What is the place of discussion about this is that this issue has also been considered by the Chancellor of Justice, and this whole subject also went to the Supreme Court on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice at all. The Chancellor of Justice has actually also suggested that suspension is an option. It does not rule out that it may be sufficient to reduce the relevant contract of employment within the staff member's council from the discussion of the matter relating to him. We know that there is such an opportunity. And now this is the place to think about the big hall, which is more proportionate. Which is more purposeful? Is the suspension, as this bill has now proposed, or is option B still that it may continue to be a member of the council and in that case it must withdraw? Why, by the way, is it urgent? In today's situation, where this provision has been declared unconstitutional, certain people do not have the option of being a council member and working in the same municipal or municipal authority on the basis of a contract of employment. They have a chance like this. There are very few of them, because it is not retroactive. Those who have had to give up their mandate have given up, they are no longer subject to retroactive application, as is the Supreme Court's decision. However, this is an opportunity for alternates, for example. They have not yet had to give up their mandate. If now someone goes out of the way and the alternate gets to the council, then today he may be a member of this local government council and at the same time work on the basis of a contract of employment. This is, in my opinion, the second extreme. Do we want the other extreme or not? So in this sense, I say completely frankly: I think a very good and necessary draft to avoid conflicts of interest. I think that this factual situation today, where there is the possibility of being a council member and working on the basis of a contract of employment, is not quite right if we are looking at possible conflicts of interest. So once again, thank you very much. I hope that this draft will be supported. And by the way, as the last reply... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry! Can we get 30 more seconds?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U97	I'm sorry, I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U98	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U99	Your time is up, I'm so sorry. I'm sorry I didn't make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U100	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U101	Thank you. A procedural question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U102	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to draw the attention of the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because he spoke of bill 366, that we can jointly improve this draft if it is decided in the Chamber to support the amendments that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U103	Thank you. A procedural question. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U104	Thank you. With full respect to the Chairman of the Riigikogu, I have such a suggestion that we had some confusion here in the very early hours of the morning when to press the button to ask for a break. In order to avoid such confusion, perhaps we would agree, because I intend to take these other breaks so that there is no mere waste of time or argument as to when this moment might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U105	Yeah, when we get there, I've been thinking about trying to communicate this time so we can figure out whether you want a break or not. I have also asked that we, on the board today, review this procedure and let us know how the board interprets the law and practice. We're discussing this today. That concludes the negotiations. We are now going to examine the draft 212 amendments. Three amendments have been received from the lead committee. The first amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U106	Thank you. I hope I pressed at the right moment. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I ask that we vote on this amendment and also take ten more minutes for the break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U107	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U108	Dear colleagues, the requested break of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U109	With the result of 55 votes against and 1 abstention, the proposal was supported. Amendment 2 has also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal and take ten minutes' break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U111	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U112	Dear colleagues, the requested break of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U113	With 54 votes in favour, no objections and 3 abstentions, the proposal was supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the lead committee, position to be taken fully into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Conservative People's Party Group to vote on this proposal and before this ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U115	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U116	Dear colleagues, the requested break of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U117	With the result of 50 votes against 1 and 3 abstentions, the proposal was supported. Therefore, good colleagues, we have examined the amendments. Two applications have been received to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The first statement has come from the Isamaa Group and its content is as follows: the Isamaa Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of local government initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 212. The second proposal has come to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the content of which is as follows: the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Constitutional Committee. We must now start preparing the vote. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U118	Thank you. You read my wish in your eyes. It's very pleasant. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask that this proposal be put to the vote as if it were going, but before that, I ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U119	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U120	Dear colleagues, the requested break of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. I shall put to the vote the second reading of draft 212 by the Isamaa Group and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-10_U121	With the result of 18 votes to 45, the proposal was not supported by any abstentions. The second reading has therefore been completed and, like a click, the first item has been closed. Good fellows! Now, I'm gonna take the manager's break for four minutes. So the hearing is closed. Thank you.
