ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 14th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, we are able to adopt or deliver drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want today. I have a message to deliver. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the opening meeting of the Estonian Film Support Group will be held in the Chamber, convened by the Anti Poolamets. Now, let's do the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U2	72 Members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U3	Today we have one item on the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Priit Sibul, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U4	[[Remote connection]] Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the Family Benefits Act at its two sittings on 3 May and Monday this week. The Commission was alone informed by the Child Welfare Association, represented at the meeting of the Commission on 3 May by Ms Helika Saar, coordinator of the Child Rights Programme. Helika spoke of the fact that in principle they support the ideas and proposals set out in the law. It is recalled that this law regulates [parental benefits] and gives the right not to include the parental benefit for the period of unemployment, supports the parents of stillborn children, the topic of paternity leave was there, and in the context of family benefits, the 16 to 19-year-olds who decide to continue their schooling would receive additional support. All these aspects and changes are supported by the Child Welfare Association. At the same time, the Union noted that the development of the social protection information system and the exchange of data between health care systems would give parents the opportunity to enter a deceased person in the population register. At present, communicating all the changes planned by this draft is very important for the target group, so that parents in distress can get help. Communication is very important. That is what our Member of the Commission, Helmen Kütt, said, who asked the Ministry to deal with this separately. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that they are working closely with the Alliance for Child Welfare and that they will definitely do so and that the children of Vaikus will also be kept informed of the discussion. The Commission decided to send this draft for a second reading today and supported the [proposal] in a consensual manner. On Monday, 10 May, when there was a second debate, the ministry representative Merlin Murumets introduced an amendment which is technical. There are different reasons. Firstly, since certain points of this law are valid for a limited period of time and are known for an indefinite period, in view of the fact that in 2024 the Ministry of Social Affairs had to carry out an ex-post evaluation, changes were needed to the deadlines for the entry into force of the Act, etc. However, the Commission also had a consensus on the technical amendment to the norm, which consists of six different aspects. If the second reading is completed today, the Commission will propose a third reading next Wednesday, 19 May. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U5	Thank you. There are some questions for the waitress. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U6	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I think that this is a very important and necessary bill, which must certainly be supported. But I want to ask if it is already known how the pandemic has affected the birth rate in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U7	[[Remote connection]] This was not specifically mentioned in the Commission. But as far as I've read, there hasn't been too much positive. So I think, as you pointed out, in this sense, this bill is absolutely appropriate, so that people who are planning a family supplement do not have any obstacles. But yes, unfortunately, there was no specific debate in the Commission about whether and how much statistically the births have decreased.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U8	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U9	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Does the Commission also have any recent studies on family benefits in order to see how recent events have affected it, what dynamic it is? Are there any studies that the Commission could have dealt with in the context of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U10	Thank you. As I said, the Commission was not currently discussing fresh studies. We are honest when we look at these studies, especially regarding birth rates and are long-term, that it makes no sense for us to look at yesterday in their context. It is likely, as the law states, that 2024 is the ex-post evaluation of this draft and then we will find out afterwards. As far as last spring is concerned, let alone the beginning of this year, this data, first of all, cannot be extended in terms of family planning and relate to a number of different aspects. We did not look at the periods involved in this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-13_U11	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation either. One proposed amendment has been submitted to the draft, as proposed by the Committee on Social Affairs itself, and this proposal has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The amendments have also been examined, and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 300. Second reading is complete. Today's agenda is exhausted. The job's done, the trial's over.
