ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 5th working week Thursday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts or enquiries. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the [group] of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the basis of which the Order No 305 adopted and subsequently amended by the Government of the Republic on 23 August would be revoked. The reason is very simple. We see how the government has gone against the Constitution, human rights and the rules of equal treatment. In a parliamentary state, decisions that violate constitutional rights cannot be taken in silence or at the discretion of the executive. If any interference or restriction of people's rights is justified, this must be done by a decision of the Riigikogu, not by a narrow circle of government. The fact that we are hitting people in two pages and refusing to recognise the results of the COVID tests, the discrimination of these people, the rejection of social life, is completely absurd, because it is precisely those who have taken the COVID test, who have obtained a negative result, that are proven to be healthy. Vaccinated people may be infected exactly the same way, may transmit the infection, so that they are a much higher risk group than those tested. Since this distinction is made selectively to young people who are subject to a test, it shows that this trend is accompanied by a disguised will for compulsory vaccination and cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U3	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and the Management Board decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, ladies and gentlemen... Ah, Andrei Korobeinik.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U4	Oh, government representative, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U5	Yeah, I got it, yeah, government rep. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the family law and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and the Pensions Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U7	There's no more, is there? Then I have adopted three drafts on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. Let's do the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U8	72 members of the Riigikogu were present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U9	Let's go to today's agenda. There is a point on the agenda today. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws and the Employment Contracts Act and related amendments to other laws. The waitress is Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, please! Oh, sorry, wait, Tanel! Priit Onion has a procedural question first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U10	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Yesterday, the Isamaa Group proposed that the Prime Minister arrives before Parliament as soon as possible to talk about the measures and restrictions adopted by the government. Has he approached the board of the Riigikogu when he or she might have the first opportunity to do so? Has he asked Parliament for time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U11	Not to the board, but perhaps he has addressed the Chairman of the Riigikogu. I'm afraid I don't have that kind of information. But there's a board meeting today, so maybe that's where it's going to be. And now please, Tanel swing!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U12	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We are pleased to introduce draft 456: draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws and amending the Employment Contracts Act and related amendments to other laws. These draft laws are submitted to the Riigikogu primarily because of the goodwill and agreement to extend the current sickness compensation regime and extend it for another year. It has been agreed, as a result of the crisis in COVID-19, that compensation for sick days is more generous than the normal scheme in force so far. In the case of reimbursement of sick days, there is a procedure in place where the person does not yet receive compensation for the first day, from the second to the fifth day by the employer and from the sixth day by the sickness fund. Perhaps this unreimbursed period has been valid one day before instead of three days. As of now, this more generous regime would apply until the end of this year. However, since we see that the COVID-19 crisis has not disappeared anywhere and, in fact, people often need to stay at home in the event of other health problems, it is reasonable to make early compensation for sick days and to extend it to the next year. This draft law essentially concerns the entire working age population, among which the employment rate is two thirds as of 2020. For example, in the previous year, a total of 1,6532 persons received one or more sick leave of different durations. This, in turn, represents more than a quarter, or 27%, of all persons employed under the contract of employment and/or the Civil Service Act. Maybe one in four employees, a little more, needed it last year. I don't know the numbers for this year, because it's still going on. The total compensation has been paid to these persons for 357000 sick leave. There are a number of people who had several pages that are understandable, and during the course of the year, they can become ill repeatedly or need and open these pages at different intervals. It is estimated that the cost of the changes will be 19 million euros for the following year, of which 12.4 million will be covered by the decision of the Government of the Republic with additional resources from the state budget and the remainder within the normal budget of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. As I have indicated, the law is intended to enter into force from January 2022 and remain in force until the end of next year. In June there was also a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu on this topic, where we discussed the arrangements for compensation for sick days and agreed that the Ministry would discuss the details with the parties. In September, we arrived at both the Ministry of Social Affairs' view and the view of the employers' trade unions that the extension is reasonable, supported by the Government of the Republic. There was also a debate, of course, which will be a longer time, i.e. in 2023 and beyond. Since we were mainly dealing with the state budget for the following year, we decided on the next year, i.e. 2022. In fact, at the trialogue, employers' trade unions also expressed their willingness and support for the introduction of this system for an indefinite period, which I personally consider to be right. This debate and debate will continue next year if we start discussing the 2023+ budget, i.e. the national budget strategy for the years 2023 to 2026. Understandably, all such decisions do not simply result from goodwill, but require financial resources to be made available. This is the option of whether it is from the state budget, whether it is partly from the state budget and partly from the sickness fund, as it is now and next year. Or, if it is entirely covered by the budget of the sickness fund, the question of where and at what cost to reduce the other costs will automatically have to be asked. In addition, in the context of the procedure of this draft law, certain points have been added to the Employment Contracts Act and the Gender Equality Act in order to improve legal clarity and reduce duplication of provisions that extend workers' rights in reconciling work and family life. As a result of these changes, all employees who fulfil family responsibilities have the right to apply for flexible working arrangements from the employer. The possibility of applying for flexible working conditions must be open to all workers who raise a child and perform family responsibilities, regardless of the age of the child, and not only to parents and workers who raise a child under the age of 8 or who have care obligations. In order to apply for flexible working conditions, an employee must submit an application to that effect to the employer and the employer must respond within a reasonable period of time. If the employer does not see the opportunity to meet the employee and to ensure flexible working arrangements, he or she is obliged to explain this. So in any case you have to give an answer, it's positive or negative. If it is negative, the reasons behind it must be explained. Although it does not give direct responsibilities or 100% the right and the opportunity for workers to obtain these flexible working conditions, it does give them the opportunity to apply for them and thus also gives a better message, I think, to the labour market, to the social partners, that the state encourages and supports those people who may really need flexible working arrangements due to the upbringing of children and other family obligations. That concludes the bill presentation. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U13	There are questions, but before that, there are procedural questions. First, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I am probably late already, at least in part, but I have a request that the minister take the mask for him is two metres away from the closest members of the Riigikogu and speak with a clear and loud voice. His performance was of no use to half the audience because he could not understand what he was saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U15	Kalle Grünthal's procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U16	Thank you, Mr President. I do have a procedural question. The point is that this draft has been submitted by the Social Affairs Committee and has been endorsed by Siret Kotka's signature, 456 first [reading]. The point is that this 'change' is absolutely legally incomprehensible. If you could take care of it and look at it, then, well, where there are amendments to the Health and Safety at Work Act, there will start from the first paragraph, from the first point: § 1 (27) will be amended. There are no 27 points in the first paragraph! Next, let's go to the second point, which states that § 4 (5) is amended and worded as follows: § 89 is supplemented by paragraph 252.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U17	Kalle, Kalle!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U18	I'm done, I mean. The point is that we cannot deal with a matter where there are no specific changes, so many paragraphs do not exist at all, so many paragraphs do not exist. What are we discussing now? This is a complete failure of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U19	Yes, well, the french advice is always in the Riigikogu from time to time, it has to be discussed during the procedure and this can be asked immediately in the round of questions from the rapporteur about what we are dealing with and suggestions for improvement. But in this sense, we still have a legal breakdown here from time to time, and then it is possible to change [the draft] at second reading and everything [yet]. As far as the mask is concerned, we do not have the obligation to wear the mask in the Riigikogu, so the board has decided, but of course there is no prohibition. We made an inquiry by the Board of Riigikogu I don't remember whether it was the Health Board or the Medicines Agency, that more than 90% of the Riigikogu employees, including the ambassadors, have been vaccinated, so it is quite safe to sit here. Yeah, some authority gave us that information. So I guess we're done with the procedure now. Maybe you can put the microphones closer to you, Tanel, so you can hear better. We can go to the questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I congratulate you for setting an example by wearing a mask, given the very critical state of infection at the moment. But the question concerns sick days. Of course, the minimum is to extend what has previously been in place in this context, but with continued great frustration, I must admit that the government has not reached an agreement on 100% compensation for the first day of coronal disease. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U21	Thank you. Indeed, as you are well aware as a former minister, it is customary to agree on such changes in a tripartite manner, with both employers and trade unions and, of course, with the health players. The logic is that different diseases are treated equally today, i.e. the level of compensation is uniform. Whether this could be an even higher rate for everyone at all, it is a forum for discussion, an additional resource is required, an agreement with workers' trade unions is also required. But right now, we have really come from the fact that people's health concerns, as I said before, that they stay at home with more than 130,000 people, are very written and that it is right and justified, however, to support all those who need the sick list and not to make a distinction for a specific disease. But because of COVID-19 disease, as I referred to earlier, this time has already been simplified, it has been made more flexible compared to the previous fourth day. So, in any case, there is clear progress, just that this progress extends to all forms of disease.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U22	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to ask: do you consider the scheme that has worked before to be correct when sickness benefit was paid from the fourth day on? And did you consider in the government to move forward with the scheme that is currently being developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U24	Thank you. As Minister responsible for health, of course, I support the solution that I have brought here, i.e. to continue with this simplified and generous arrangement. Just as I actually referred to in the opening statement, I think it is right that we can agree on a similar procedure for an indefinite period, so that it would be easier for all social partners, it would be easier for the health partners up to different IT developments. But it really requires financial opportunities, the debate that we are expected to open next year when the 2023 budget and 2023.2026 will begin. To discuss the national budgetary strategy for 2008. As I have pointed out, the cost of this particular change is estimated at 19 million, which of course requires a source of cover. If the pandemic should decrease, the number of sick leaves may decrease somewhat. But in terms of cost, he's still growing over time, because we know that the average wage is increasing, the average compensation rate is rising further, so that cost is increasing from year to year. I also correct: I previously replied to Mr Ossinovski that over 130,000 people still received [sick pages] of almost 170000 people in total who received a sick list for various diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U25	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I come back to the subject I mentioned here on procedural questions. There is a total danger in this § 1 amendment to the law. It's a total mess. We cannot deal with these matters in this way if the members of the Riigikogu do not understand what we are dealing with, what we are changing. Take, for example, § 1. It is noted here that point 5 is boldly stated that § 89 is supplemented by paragraph 252. I mean, there aren't so many paragraphs in this same occupational health code. Exactly the same nonsense is also in the first place where § 1 (27) is amended and then there will be some 313. I mean, it's a total nonsense written all over it. We cannot deal with this now if we do not have the right clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U27	Thank you. As always with these draft laws, they have been prepared by responsible committees. Commission lawyers, in cooperation with ministries, have reviewed that all these drafts are legally correct, correctly marked. Perhaps even if this draft law can be difficult to read, I trust the team that prepared to make and raise these proposals, as it has also been checked repeatedly. And as the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu also pointed out, if there is and there is a need to make any changes, of course this possibility will be available to Parliament during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U28	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U29	Thank you. Well, Mr Grünthal's concern is that he does not understand that the law of amendment is being amended, not the version of the full law currently in force, but I think that this issue can be resolved during the procedure. But my question, the second question, concerns the same subject. It is true that, if we were to talk about the fact that we want to impose additional obligations, for example, on employers, then, of course, tripartite dialogue and agreement on this matter are important. But we are currently in a crisis situation and, in this situation, the Socialist proposal has actually been that 100% of the first day's salary be reimbursed from the state budget, government reserve or otherwise from the state budget, so that there is no additional cost for employers. Why do you not support this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U30	Thank you. As I have pointed out, the question really is that there must be a principle of 'equal treatment'. We cannot say that a person who is due, for example, to some accident, some other infectious disease, which is also very much, at home, deserves somehow less support than a COVID-19 patient. It's really been that logic. Our message is uniform for all to receive compensation from the second day. Of course, in the case of infectious diseases, in the case of any communicable disease, staying at home is of particular importance in the case of teleworking when a person is without symptoms, or resting and health support, if any symptoms have already occurred. Maybe in any case, I think we're on the same line as you, but the principle is really that we haven't started making these cuts by disease. Then there would be a very well-founded question at the next moment, is TB, fortunately he has no ebola here, but the register of all kinds of health concerns, as you know, is unspokenly long, then they should all begin to be differentiated either by communicable diseases or by such a category. But I think it is important and positive that both the previous government and the current government have made the current sickness benefit regime more favourable and flexible and have done so quickly, in cooperation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U31	Kalle Grünthal, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U32	Thank you, Mr President. As we know, the drafts are subject to certain technical requirements, which they must meet, and this is clearly the case here in the rapporteur's reply that he is not responsible for having a large team back here, etc. I honestly do not care who is responsible, the question is very pragmatic. If we do not meet the requirements and there are shortcomings, we cannot deal with this draft now because the situation is absolutely impossible and incomprehensible. For example, I cannot understand how to read this text at all, it is such a mess. Here we could have written the history of conquering the Bastille, and we keep working on these issues. I can't. I mean, there's gotta be some way to get involved in this thing, because technically, it's absolutely, it's not even good to say, grade 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U33	Thank you. Am I gonna answer that, or was it procedural?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U34	It's more for me, yeah. These are procedural in terms of the conduct of the sitting and the Rules of Procedure and, of course, if the draft is not in accordance with the norm or the Rules of Procedure, this is a problem. In that case, the Bureau should be made aware that the Bureau sent him to the Chamber at all, but I understand that the draft has begun with our own committee, so that the place of looking in the mirror. However, it is always possible to correct the draft at second reading, or if there is such a poor draft that it cannot reach second reading, it must be rejected at first reading. Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I remember in the Committee on Social Affairs we had a heated debate in the spring about whether the sickness benefit would be extended to close contacts, and we also reached a result. But just in case, in order to be clear and repeated: does this change extend to close contacts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U36	Yeah, thanks a lot! A very well-founded question. Indeed, the changes we are proposing are an extension of the current regime by one year. Perhaps, as this year, it will extend to COVID-19 positive close contacts, it will be extended next year to allow close contacts to stay at home as far as possible and avoid contact with others, thereby helping to reduce the risk of infection in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U37	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! For the sake of a purely verbatim, I would like to clarify one point. In the summer, there was this idea going through here that maybe people infected with unvaccinated COVID wouldn't pay any sick benefits at all. In order to be clear, I ask: do these principles apply both to unvaccinated COVID infected persons and to vaccinated COVID infected persons in the same way? Are these incapacity benefits paid to both groups on the same basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U39	Thank you. For the sake of truth, I will specify: there has never been a debate that a vaccinated or unvaccinated infected person would have any distinction. In any case, the sick person will receive a sick list according to the days prescribed and as required. The debate was purely on the subject of close contact, and not on the subject of affected persons, two different target groups. As of now, there is indeed a uniform regime for both vaccinated and non-vaccinated close contacts, both this year and next year, as proposed by Parliament today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U40	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You answered my question when I referred to the technical cull that this draft had been prepared by a large team. You're the leader of the team who just came here to talk about this bill. You got into trouble, say, about this dump, and you say we send him to second reading, there you can fix it. We can't even go through this first reading because of what we fix when there's a glitch. This is exactly what, let's say, your responsibility to manage the COVID crisis. Total failure, you can't even make a simple thing like the draft here in such a way that it suffers criticism. Do you understand that, Mr. Swing? You come here on the remote and you say, "Let's fix it." No! It's got to be the right thing to do. Please take this bill back, it's completely absurd.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U42	Thank you very much. Since the previous question was really aimed at 'procedures' and I could not answer it, I will now answer what I would have liked to have said before. The explanatory memorandum, as usual, makes it much easier to understand and read this draft. The explanatory memorandum sets out very clearly the amendments to be made to the draft, which are the additions that are to these changes, both in the case of sick leave and precisely, as I referred to earlier, in the application for flexible working conditions. I hope and believe you've been familiar with it. If not, I suggest you do. There is a very clear and unambiguous understanding of the legal education as well as of a simple person like me, with no legal education, [written out], which this draft amends and does not change with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U43	A procedure, Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Kalle Grünthal has pointed out several times that the Social Affairs Committee has produced a crack. I cannot agree with this because unfortunately a member of the Riigikogu Kalle Grünthal himself does not know the norm rules. The amendment of the Amending Act is the so-called stem law, and the specific amendment of the Act of entry into force looks visually and technically different. I would like to stress to Mr Grünthal that this is when we talk about the amendments he has referred to, the amendment of the law and these points already exist. He should be watching the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U45	Thank you. We needed that explanation. Please, Kalle Grünthal has a procedure again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U46	Thank you. What I'm saying is that Siret Eagle is definitely a very nice and beautiful person, but there's nothing legal about visualism. The question now is that when reference is made to the law amending the law on health and safety at work and other laws, I want to know what is in the law that is being amended by the law amending other laws amending the law. It can't be that you're throwing some kind of law out here and we don't know what we're actually dealing with. It's a clean mess. It is not a question of Kalle Grünthal, who may not share absolutely anything, but it must also be understood by the smarter people, such as Jürgen Ligi or anyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U47	Oudekki Loone has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a law such as the law amending the law on health and safety at work and other laws. We are now dealing with the amendment of this law; there are all these paragraphs and points beautifully present. For reasons of clarity, I recommend that colleagues take off the State Gazette, with the publication deadline of 29 December 2020, and all the points that are today apply to the law amending it, and it also states what these other laws are. It may be very difficult, if a person is not used to thinking that way, but it is done correctly here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U49	Ladies and gentlemen, we are slipping into negotiations under a procedural name. Let's try to keep the formats the way they're supposed to be. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Swing, Tanel! I have this question: are we dealing here with a shadow theater in the form of this bill and accepting corrections that you claim to treat everyone equally, whether they are vaccinated, non-vaccinated, old, young, sick, healthy? Already next week, the government will come up with some sort of edict, which will essentially invalidate the content of this draft. Can you guarantee that we will not do an empty job here, which the government will actually abolish with its illegal activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U51	Thank you for your question. As you well know, the laws adopted by Parliament are always higher in weight and take precedence over any government order. Perhaps, as I have referred to, in response to Kert Kingo, the current arrangements and the procedures put before Parliament now overlap with regard to the payment of sickness benefits, both for those who have received the sick list and for those who have received close contacts. It is possible for Parliament to make clarifications, here proposals were made to increase the rates and there were other ideas. I'm sure there'll be a debate. I understand that there is also a question here of how they should be specified in the legislation. Here too, if there are differences of opinion, it is possible to hold a debate. But it is certainly not going to change the law adopted by Parliament, but it can still be done by Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U52	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U53	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, you just said that all these things are well and well explained in this explanatory statement. My question is this: we know that not knowing the law does not relieve you of responsibility, but does a person need to know the explanatory statement in addition to the laws? The explanatory memorandum is an integral part of the draft, but things could still be explained by law rather than by the fact that, if you want to know exactly, please refer to the explanatory memorandum during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U54	Thank you. A very legitimate question. As colleagues pointed out before, at the moment that this law is adopted, it is much easier to read and understand than the interim draft amending the law or amending the law. This is inevitably a higher level of detail for Parliament, and that is why I recommended reading the explanatory statement when there is a question that will be decided exactly today. The text of the law that is ultimately in force is in the Official Journal of the State without any amendments to the law amending the law of any kind and any other complicated bureaucracy and clear to the person what is being amended. Of course, public communication must also be unambiguous and clear, so that I respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U55	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister, and we can call Siret Kotka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as co-rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U56	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws has been dealt with several times. On 4 October, we addressed the part of the draft concerning the temporary system of sick leave. This would be extended until the end of 2022, according to the draft. In other words, the employer pays the sickness benefit from the second to the fifth day and from the sixth day [pays] the sickness fund. On 11 October, it was decided by the Commission that the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and, in connection with it, the law amending other laws would be incorporated into the [draft] 456. The decision was based on the principle of legislative economics. The addition amends the law on the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act already adopted by the Riigikogu on 13 October 2021 and the related amendment of other laws. The amendments have been submitted to the Social Affairs Committee by the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner and have been approved by the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Trade Union [ute Keskliit] and the Ministry of Social Affairs. One might ask why this is the case and why these changes were not already introduced in the draft law 361. I'll explain. Indeed, the directive requires EU countries to establish a law that gives workers the right to ask for flexible working conditions when they have an 8-year-old or younger child. The Commission discussed the proposals of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment for the first time, including at the meeting of the Commission on 7 June. The discussion was about whether the requirements of the Directive should be transposed in such a way as to apply to employers who [workers] have children under the age of 8 years, or whether this right should also apply to other parents and children. Until the end of the second reading of [the draft] 361 both the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Trade Union [the Ute Central Union] considered that this right should apply to children up to 8 years of age. It was not for all children, but for children up to 8 years old. After the second reading of [the draft] 361, when the second reading had already been carried out here in the large hall of the Riigikogu, both the Confederation of Employers and the Estonian Trade Union [the Confederation of Estonian Trade Union] sent a letter to the Social Affairs Committee, where they now supported the proposal submitted by the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner. Perhaps now, according to the draft, parents of children over the age of 8 can also ask for flexible working conditions and the employer must also respond. It is these changes that are currently included in [the draft] 456. The Ministry of Social Affairs approved these amendments to this bill. The consolidation of the draft law was approved by the Committee on Social Affairs on 11 October at the meeting of the Commission in which 8 were in favour, 1 abstention and 1 member of the Commission did not take part in the vote. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the deadline for submitting amendments is ten working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U57	Thank you. No questions for the waitress. We can go to the negotiations and the wish for negotiations has been expressed by Mr Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A brief speech, as the subject has been through this Chamber several times, will not repeat for a long time what has been said here for months. Of course, the Social Democrats support this temporary increase in sickness benefits, given the dynamics of the epidemic, but we estimate that, as before, this is not enough. We have stood by ensuring that sick days are reimbursed to the corona-positive, people who are actually infected by this dangerous infectious disease, from day one to 100%. This is to give people additional motivation to stay at home from the perspective of an epidemic, not to go to work, so that people don't have to go testing backwards, because if they have to stay at home, they lose their income. This is an aspect of epidemic control. The other half is a question of justice. Given that this is a very widespread infection at the moment, a person himself cannot have any blame for being infected. To some extent, this can be said in the context of vaccination, which was also raised here, but we actually know that vaccinated people also carry the disease and get sick, not seriously, but carry it on. Protection against infection is slightly different between vaccines, but over time it will all [weaken]. In this context, it is also important that, if a person has been affected by this disease in his or her unavoidable contacts at the workplace, at school or somewhere else, he or she would indeed be 100% compensated. So the question of justice in the same way and the objective of combating epidemics in other ways. The minister told me what we're gonna do with ebola and tuberculosis. Well, frankly, if Estonia ever had the accident of having a widespread spread of tuberculosis or Ebola, I believe it is worth applying a similar logic to these very dangerous infectious diseases and then paying 100% of the first day for these diseases. The Minister argued, as in the past, that this requires a tripartite agreement with trade unions and employers. Employers have not wanted to bear the cost for obvious reasons, because it is an additional day from the first day and 100%, or a higher rate, on their own. Indeed, this type of change, which imposes an additional burden on employers or employees in the context of labour law, should be treated as a tripartite agreement in the context of social partnership, which I agree with. But at the moment, we are at a critical stage in the spread of the epidemic, and in this context, different solutions need to be implemented. We do not have the opportunity and the time and justification to negotiate in a trialogue for months. In fact, this issue can be solved very easily: which, of course, both employers and employees agree, [is] that the corona positive receive 100% of the sick list from the first day, but it is covered by the state budget. It's a cost to the state budget. Undoubtedly, this is a cost to the state budget as high, depending on how widespread the infection is. If this measure had been implemented as a preventive measure, for example, this summer, it would have been able to prevent a certain number of additional infections and perhaps this cost would be lower. In today's phase, he's definitely bigger. I'd like a minute more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U59	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U60	But let's think about the alternative cost. Dropping the coronal situation during the second wave this spring meant an additional budget of 700 million euros for the Estonian state budget. These are the orders of magnitude we're talking about. And in this context, to say that the government has not been able to find a few million euros there in order to motivate the corona-positive to stay home from the first day of this disease and not to be penalised financially if they have become ill, that is not serious. It should not be behind the money, nor should it be behind any ideological spite, because we are indeed in a critical state where we must work together to get the infection down. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U61	Thank you very much. Next, Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U62	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point to a slightly broader framework for this law, which we are actually discussing here. We are discussing that our country could be one where people are not just neoliberal monsters who sell their jobs and consume free time. In the meantime, a person is also a person who deals with his family, and when he gets sick, he has the right to be sick. As long as a person hides his illness, and it really doesn't matter whether it's a corona or some other disease, if he goes to work in the worst circumstances, because he's just afraid that he won't have any money to buy bread or pay his electric bills, then as a result, the person's quality of life will be reduced. Our general well-being decreases, people die early, they're meaner, they're sadder. We have failed to take care of our country. In this sense, in the reimbursement of sick days, and here I must say that I absolutely agree with the previous speaker that sick days could be reimbursed from day one, precisely because a person has the right to be sick, the sooner he can stay home and heal himself without worrying about whether his children can eat, the sooner he gets well. On the other hand, this is the whole procedure of this law. Why he's in the form he is now, it's pure class fight. Here is the question of whether workers have been able to establish the right to be sick, to establish the right to care for their children, to care for others who need more attention in their home, or not. And the question of whose side the country is on. Does the State protect the employee's right to be a person or does the State protect the company's profits? It is a kind of compromise now, but I am pleased to say that it is a compromise in the right direction. It gives the employee more rights. It says that as your employees, your humanity, your well-being is more important than anyone's right to make a profit. That is the content of these amendments, and that is why I think it is a very good proposal, and it must be supported. And, of course, this fight must continue to be fought until that moment, until people can stay home and heal themselves from the first day of any illness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U63	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U64	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! I cannot think of myself as a major social and health specialist, and that is what I have not come here to talk about right now. I've come here to talk about some of our society's flutters, and so far, it's just like the postulates that seemed rock-proof. This debate, or rather this presentation, which the Minister did to us here, is summed up in English by the expression 'I know that no foreign language can be spoken here', but it cannot be translated into Estonian as well as it can be done in business as usual. Thing as usual, routine activity. We come with a draft, we count it from here, the technical shortcomings have already been highlighted, and they are, of course, manageable, they cannot distort the substance of the matter. It's regrettable, of course, that such a crack has been made, but, well, it's devoidable. It's a question of something else. I also asked the Minister a question. Is what we are doing here, as I said, business as usual, actually standing up in those stormy winds that are now sweeping society? We have heard in this Chamber from a number of delegates, but also from a number of ministers, that non-vaccines must be deprived of their right to sickness benefits, that non-vaccines must start paying for their own treatment. If we look a little wider, we will see that interesting, interesting, similar proposals have come out in many other countries. This morning, I read that the Latvian Prime Minister has made similar proposals. Perhaps I am paranoid, but I wonder whether these thoughts are not proposed from a single centre, a centre called perhaps the European Commission, in order to push through this unprecedented division of society in modern history, the trampling of human rights, constitutional rights, civil rights. Of course, our group also supports this [draft] and, frankly, I also agree with the previous speaker. In my opinion, sickness benefit should be paid from day one. We don't argue with that. But we want to make sure that Estonia does not slip and has not already slipped into an authoritarian situation where the government, by its regulations, simply passes over the drafts adopted by the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu. We have today tabled a draft decision to lift the restrictions imposed by the government. Why did we do that? We were told in the legal department: the regulations of the government cannot be revoked by the Riigikogu. That can't be true. The Riigikogu has received a mandate from the people and the government has received a mandate from the Riigikogu. It is not conceivable that anyone, whether his name is Kaja Kallas, Jüri Ratas, Andrus Ansip, Siim Kallas or whatever name he bears, says that you, 101, chew the lawn, we don't care what you decide and adopt here, our regulation is mandatory for you, too. If we say one day that you, Mart Helme, are no longer welcome in this hall for one, another or third reason, you are a dissent, we will not allow you to come to this hall, we will not allow you to come, because the government regulation is the chief of the Riigikogu's jurisdiction, it cannot be true. It can't be like this. We've seen... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U65	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U66	After all, we have seen here over the years how the Riigikogu, obediently, is willing to give up its sovereignty and surrender it piece by piece to government. A piece by piece often also for some completely hidden forces. And that is what has created the situation where the lawyers of the Riigikogu say that the Riigikogu does not have the right to revoke a government decree. This is an absurd situation, and in this absurd situation, we need the conviction that we are not dealing with any shadow theatre and circus here. We accept, we process, we work hard, we propose improvements, we vote on them, and then they say it's all going into the trash because the government decided otherwise. It can't be like that. I call on the Riigikogu to stand up for its dignity, to stand up for its sovereignty, to exercise the mandate that Riigikogu members have received from their voters in the elections. This is our supreme duty, and for that we are, of course, prepared to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-21_U67	With this, the negotiations are exhausted, and I will close the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 456. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 November at 5.15 p.m. Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is adjourned.
