ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, ambassadors are able to submit inquiries or drafts. I don't see a wish like that. Let's keep going with the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the e-commerce support group, convened by Marko Storm, will take place in this Chamber. Yeah, you see, Marko's there. Now let's do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U2	71 members of the Riigikogu signed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U3	We can go to today's agenda. On today's agenda, the debate on the national issue of the impact of carbon dioxide quota price increases on the state budget and society is crucial. The procedure for discussion is laid down in § 153 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. According to this, the Riigikogu Board of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Special Committee on the control of the state budget, determined the order of occurrence in the discussion of the national issue of fundamental importance. First of all, Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, will be a presentation lasting 20 minutes, followed by 30 minutes of questions and answers. Then the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Asa, will give a presentation, 20 minutes, questions and answers again for 30 minutes. The third presentation is a presentation by Marko Allikson, member of the Management Board of Baltic Energy Partners OÜ, 20 minutes, questions and answers 30 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may submit one question to each of the rapporteurs and after presentations, and there are negotiations and answers in which the members of the Riigikogu, the representatives of committees and political groups may make speeches. At the request of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Special Committee on State Budget Control has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock if we do not get one half o'clock. So let's get to the debate. First, please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U4	Honourable representative of the people! Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs. On the proposal of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the Riigikogu is currently discussing the most important economic policy problem in the country and this is the price of electricity that has skyrocketed. A representative must not be passive in such a situation. The current forecasts of electricity price formation have not kept water, and they threaten the competitiveness of all Estonian households, businesses and, in this respect, the overall competitiveness of our economy and people's livelihood. The state cannot be a passive observer here. The state must have a plan, a concrete action plan, how to mitigate the rise in electricity prices, both through internal regulatory measures and in the context of pan-European rules, which have led to sudden, exponential pressure on electricity prices. I would like to stress here the words of Arvi Hamburg, chairman of the Energy Council of the Academy of Sciences: "In energy, there is a "trilemma" on the principle of balance: an equilateral triangle, the sides of which are energy security, environmental impact and affordability. "The average exchange price for electricity between the start of this year and today has been 66.75 euros per megawatt-hour, the average price for the same period last year was 30.92 euros per megawatt-hour, the price increase 2,15 times when we talk about the years. However, the average price of August this year was 87 euros per megawatt-hour, in September, at the end of last week, 123 euros per megawatt-hour. This year, the price of a tonne of CO2 has doubled in the European emissions trading system. The Special Committee on State Budget Control met the representatives of the Government with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Environment, as well as the Director General of the Competition Board, the Chairman of the Board of Eesti Energia, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Chairman of the Board of the Viru Chemistry Group last week. It can be stated briefly and clearly that, having heard the views of government representatives, the government does not have a plan for real steps to reduce the pressure on electricity prices. There's no plan. Secondly, it is worrying that we also do not have a passionate and rational evidence-based analysis, which will actually happen in a decade's perspective, in the coming year's perspective. In short, the increase in electricity prices, due in particular to both the energy deficit and the increase in the price of the European emissions trading system, has actually come as a surprise and has not been taken into account in the country's long-term energy and climate action plans. I quote the Minister for the Environment, Tõnis Möldri, who has said that the scheme proposed by the European Commission and the price target on which it was based have remained significantly less than today's actual price. This may mean that the figures on this graph on the price per tonne of CO2 that the Minister for the Environment has presented to us may become significantly higher. The Minister of the Environment briefed MEPs on the unit price forecast for emissions trading up to 2030, which is currently the September Refinitiv forecast. According to this, in the coming years the price of CO2 tonnes should remain above EUR 60, or today's high level. This is the current information that we have at our disposal: to the current high level, 60 euros per tonne. What does the price of one tonne of CO2 mean for the price of electricity? This is a very simple rule of thumb, as explained to me by the Director General of the Competition Authority. If the price per tonne of CO2 per tonne of emissions trade increases by one euro, this means an additional EUR for the megawatt-hour price of electricity. Perhaps figuratively, Refinitiv is forecasting the price of this tonne to rise to 91 euros by 2030. This is today's forecast, to EUR 91, which means that if we take the structure of today's production volumes, renewable and non-renewable energy sources, it will actually mean an additional regulatory price pressure on electricity consumers for emissions trade of EUR 91 per megawatt-hour. It's as simple as that. However, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Tatar, pointed out that yes, the situation is that one of the important instruments affecting climate policy, the same price per tonne of CO2 that has the most significant impact on the price of our electricity, is moving in a completely unpredictable market. In a completely unpredictable market! The Director of the Competition Authority, Mr Märt Ots, pointed out in the Commission that the future price of electricity will be nearly twice as high for consumers. Next time, it could be about EUR 100 per megawatt-hour. This is the reality of where we are. If we look at all the regulatory forecasts for electricity, which have also been made in relation to meeting the European Union's climate objectives, it must be acknowledged that these references do not work. We need a rational evidence-based assessment of new input prices after events in the input market. In Estonia's national climate plan, which was completed almost two years ago, the price was estimated at 23 euros for 2025 tonnes of CO2. We now have this EUR 60. EUR 34 was forecast for 2030. As I said, Refinitiv is forecasting 91 euros per tonne by the end of September 2030. The European Commission has presented its previous analysis, on which all agreements that have actually been made to meet the climate targets that the price per tonne will be EUR 52 by 2030 will actually be based. These initial assumptions have not kept water. We are now taking the analysis carried out in 2019 by the Stockholm Environmental Institute for the Estonian Government, which also concerned the realisation of climate ambition in 2050. The cost to Estonian society in terms of public spending as well as private sector and private sector spending: EUR 17.3 billion up to 2050 will be the price of achieving the climate goals. I was very interested in this analysis, which is based on the price per tonne of CO2. The answer is short: this accounting models did not actually take account of it at all. It was based on the fact that it's cost-neutral. In reality, the money paid by companies and consumers for the higher price of electricity in relation to the price of CO2 trading units will be fully paid into the state budget. Formally, in view of the budgetary balance, this reasoning is correct. However, there is one important principle: when the burden on consumers arises, this does not mean that the money received by the state budget actually returns to consumers. This is a situation that we also see in the current increase in electricity prices. The increase in electricity prices this year is expected to cost Estonian consumers at least 250 million euros. EUR 250 million! A quarter of a billion euros will be taken from consumers' pockets. Based on the price targets we have today, there is no predictable response. On the contrary, the assumptions, as I said, the experts also estimate that we are moving out of the high price of electricity, and that in reality means that this price increase, too, when we are talking now about how much it costs all the consumers in our country together, is in an upward phase. This means billions of euros for our consumers in a ten-year perspective, several billion euros for extra electricity and additional pressure on the competitiveness of our country, our economy. How is electricity energy consumption distributed between households and businesses? This ratio is more or less such that if we base last year's electricity consumption on about eight sharps, we can say that quite largely 1/3 of it was household consumption and 2/3 of it was corporate consumption. What do we need? First of all, we need a clear and passionate analysis of the impact of emissions trading and climate policy, about what the cost of these things really is for Estonian consumers. Secondly, we need a clear and passionate analysis in the context of an exponentially increased energy deficit of what will become the security of electricity supply in our country. We remember from the beginning of the corona crisis, how the borders of countries closed, countries stood up for themselves, for the people of their country. There is no doubt: even under stock market conditions, this has already been acknowledged by experts, when there is a surge in deficits, countries are starting to make passionate decisions, preferring security of supply to their national residents, to their national consumers. I recall that Finland imported 21.3 terawatt-hours of electricity last year. This is three times more than the electricity consumption of the entire Estonian state. Sweden is planning a double increase in electricity consumption over a few decades. Double increase in electricity consumption! Germany intends to shut down its last nuclear power plant next year. The closure of coal plants is planned for 2038. Secondly, we need a clear and passionate position and understanding, alongside the security of electricity supply, of what the current dynamics of emissions trading in Europe mean for our electricity consumers. I say clearly, based on expert analyses: it is not possible to continue with this indeterminate dynamic, given the interests of our consumers and the interests of our companies. A fundamental and clear change is needed, and the analysis and proposals of this change must be brought before us by the government. The Minister for Economic Affairs has sent a letter to the European Commission. There was a letter, I read it myself, but there was no real proposal in it. The current situation provides for the implementation of a certain automatic stabiliser for the current emissions trading system. In reality, the situation is one where the current European rulebook does not yet allow, because the price is not high enough or increased enough, to implement this stabiliser. In the situation caused by electricity prices, it is undoubtedly possible to take a number of practical steps, because the money that we are largely charged at higher prices of electricity will reach the state budget in the form of VAT on electricity (companies will receive VAT, domestic consumers will not get VAT back) and, secondly, in the form of CO2 units, which has already been estimated at EUR 120 million for this year. Now, out of concrete proposals that can be made and which is also highlighted by Arvi Hamburg, Chairman of the Energy Council of the Academy of Sciences. Firstly, with regard to the question of reducing electricity prices, the solution is not that we postpone the quadruple increase in electricity excise duty by 2023, as the government plans with its own budget. Every kid in his knee will realize that the price of electricity will not be reduced if you cancel the additional regulatory price increase. [[A voice from the hall.]] Okay, here we go. Now, the question is, what are the possibilities for the government to operate in the regulatory market? Firstly, the renewable energy charge. There is quite a rare model in Estonia when the price of renewable energy is charged to consumers. We have the opportunity to completely cancel the renewable energy fee and to compensate renewable energy producers with a public budget target, as a large number of European countries do. A separate issue is the problem of over-compensation for renewable energy. We have set this level on the basis of the current system of auctions. The Estonian Competition Authority estimates the cost of renewable energy for Estonian consumers to be 1.5 billion over the period 2007 to 2030. Part of this money has already gone, it is a question of the past, a historical issue, but the current system of auctions is expected to exceed EUR 600 million until 2030. The competition authority's assessment was such that an analysis should be carried out of the type of overcompensation of European State aid rules in relation to the price targets currently achieved, but also in relation to the development of renewable energy technologies, which we already see in the renewable energy auctions in Lithuania or Finland, where it has also reached zero euros. In reality, the government also needs to overestimate this system quickly. We can't stall. Stretching means very simple: money. Stretching means money paid by our consumers. Next year, the renewable energy charge is expected to be EUR 100 million, EUR 100 million on a regulatory basis, not because the wind is not in windmills, not because of stock exchange prices, but because we are taking this money on a regulatory basis. Secondly, with regard to ensuring the security of energy supply, we must urgently review our decision to close oil shale energy and evaluate it. What do we have to do? We also urgently need to increase KredEx grants and simplify support mechanisms to improve the energy efficiency of the housing fund, including private homes, and to promote local energy production. In addition, there is one fundamental issue that the European Union's rules clearly provide for. On the basis of fully rational market conditions, given that the electricity market is currently a politically distorted market in reality, and this is a speculative market that we have seen, then we must have a mechanism, an automatic stabiliser that applies to consumers, especially to domestic consumers, so that the price does not go into space. It is not socialism that we are confirming the price of national electricity, but that we have the possibility of regulatory transfer. The money that comes into our national budget, we collect even in the form of VAT and CO2 units, we collect it, and this money must be used to develop an automatic stabiliser, as has been the case in many European countries to do without stretching. This, too, is the plan that we need, and we need it without stretching. Right now, we're facing a lack of knowledge. Fatalist statements from the government that yes, prices are rising and that is how we must live, fatalist statements that earlier forecasts have not kept water are not the answer to Estonian people, Estonian consumers and Estonian entrepreneurs. In this situation, we must have the honesty to say what the actual situation is and what the forecasts are in the current system, and to take the steps that are at the disposal of the representative of the people and of the government in a democratic country, so that the price of electricity does not become unrealistically excessive. In our climate zones, it has to be taken into account that many people who use electricity to heat their homes are a very important component in order to survive in the first place. If you are told to go and ask for income support, this is not really the solution to the central economic policy problem facing the whole of society, which goes horizontal across society. Income support is granted to a person whose net income after deduction of housing costs is EUR 150, a measure to address [problems] for people in deep poverty. It's a cynical thought. We have to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U5	Thank you. There's some questions for the waitress. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for that review. Over time, Estonia has become importing energy from the exporting country and there are reasons for it. This is mainly the case for CO2 because of the different fiscal policies. Looking at the current situation, there are four important aspects why this price is so expensive. On the one hand, commodity prices (coal, natural gas), on the other hand, are low levels of renewable energy (hydropower in the Nordic countries and certain problems of wind energy). Thirdly, I understand that the question is the artificial deficit of CO2. Fourthly, the state may have some fiscal policy decisions. I have a question for you. Have you discussed this in the Special Audit Committee on the State Budget? You said the country didn't have a plan. Has the government or the Minister for Economic Affairs come before you on this subject, which you pointed out in connection with the possible additional CO2 receipts, because I understand that 100+ million is literally coming into the state budget? Are there any suggestions for the Minister? The other thing you brought up as an important aspect was an automatic stabilizer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U7	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U8	What could be done in this sense in the near future...?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U9	Time, Sven!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U10	Thank you. Answer from government representatives. The Minister for the Environment admitted, let's say, to channel additional CO2 money into either a renewable energy fee or a stabiliser for domestic consumers. This was admitted by the Minister for the Environment, but we are not aware of the decisions made by the government in this regard. The happy news about the budget, which is expected to be delivered tomorrow, has not addressed this issue, the most important issue for Estonian entrepreneurs and Estonian consumers, unfortunately. I highlight the important issue of European cooperation, our need to work with European partners on this issue. I refer again to Arvi Hamburg, Chairman of the Energy Council of the Academy of Sciences. Together with the other Member States of the European Union, we need to carry out an assessment of the proposed energy production technologies, analyse the impact of the proposed measures on the consumer, assess the economic and socio-economic impact, assess the competitiveness of countries and of the entire European Union and modernise the carbon trading system. It cannot be that our assumptions for all the climate policy objectives that we have met are based on a single account, but when the real life is quite different, because, on the basis of both political decisions and speculative trading decisions, these units can be sold on the secondary market, we really do not make corrections in politics. The second question, which concerns free additional CO2 quotas: where is the government's proposal for free additional CO2 quotas? I would like to point out that I have on the table the proposals of the Confederation of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce, the views on the proposals on the European Union climate package in a broader context, but they are also applicable to one another in the current situation. The Employers' Confederation states and draws attention to the problem: "Unexpected changes of direction and slight abandonment of previous agreements are causing the blackout. For example, a faster reduction of carbon quotas is foreseen... " What does it mean to reduce faster? The price pressure on the market and the surge in CO2 prices. "... However, the government's position on the Green Pact for Europe, coordinated with business, was that the sectors participating in the emissions trading system should continue to be subject to the agreed reduction. "However, the Chamber of Commerce stresses that they are not convinced at the moment that this is the view of the Chamber of Commerce that all the requirements contained in the climate package are realistic and feasible in the proposed timetable. The question is very simple for employers and businesses: is there an impact assessment of what these really mean about the price of CO2 in terms of what they mean in terms of socio-economic terms, what they mean for people's livelihoods, what they mean for the competitiveness of our businesses? However, it must be acknowledged that we do not really have such an impact analysis at our disposal on the decisions taken or on the current situation. Once again, I come back to the fact that Estonia must act as a dignified partner country in the European Union, also in contact with the European Commission, and to state its clear package of concrete proposals. It cannot be that we simply lay out our hands: that is what happens, we move blindly to the future and we comply with the commitments made, the categories of assumptions of which have fundamentally changed. Not the whole economy, Estonian society is working solely for this goal, the incomes are not limited to lighting the lamps on fire. It has now turned to such a situation that when we talk about price pressure, people's livelihood, we are talking about billions of euros that will ultimately have to be paid by the Estonian consumer, who will also pay these prices on the domestic market, both as a result of the price increase target alone, or as a result of the charges and taxes imposed on electricity, and as a result of the lack of equipment. Yes, it is said that one solution is to increase the capacity of renewable energy production. That's the right line of thought in theory. But what do we see in practice? Tootsi wind farm should provide more than 10% of the total volume in Estonia. But I'm sorry, instead of building it, two national companies are going to trial with each other because of Toots' wind farm and the operation has stopped. That's our situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U11	I don't want to teach the performer, but there's nine questions, there's a minute to ask, and there's 23 minutes left to answer. If you want to get everyone's answer, maybe you'll concentrate. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U12	Thank you. To be honest, I would also suggest that you try to answer clearly and passionately, then you can ask for a little more. But there was one observation in your report about the rule of thumb that one euro price quota for CO2 is one euro price for electricity. So that goes for coal and oil shale. Let us stress that for electricity produced from natural gas, it is twice as small, not to mention renewable sources. But you said the government didn't have a plan. I'd argue with you: I think the government has a plan. Two drafts have been brought here, which will increase the renewable energy fee: 156 SE to subsidise forest burning in Narva boilers, and 344 in order to give large producers a gift with a renewable energy fee that others would have to pay, a 40% increase in the renewable energy fee. But you've supported it, too. You somehow say that steps must be taken to reduce the price of electricity, but you have also supported these proposals to increase the price of electricity. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U13	Very simply. We are now seeing a paradox across Europe that, on the one hand, there are climate goals, green targets, and, on the other hand, all power plants based on a non-renewable resource, including Estonian power plants, have been put on full tour, to have electricity. There's no point spitting in the old well until the new well is ready. This is the primary issue of our energy security in a situation where we are faced with an indeterminate power deficit under the influence of these political decisions. You have to be honest with yourself, looking clearly in the eye. Speaking of renewable energy: we have met and succeeded in meeting the milestones set in the European Union. But I would point out that wind conditions are very volatile. It has also been said in the current situation that you see, we did not have the wind, that is, and then we had to consume an unrecoverable resource. I will take the example of January 11th, 2020, when at one o'clock in the morning the total hourly capacity of wind power plants in Estonia was 5.9 megawatts, and on the same day at ten o'clock in the evening, a few hours passed, there were 280.7 megawatts. Solar power plants had a capacity of 0 to 110 megawatts per year. It's dictated by the weather, and that's the reality. But we must also have it independent of the weather. We can talk about the theory of the future, about storage capacities, about everything else, but we must have an autonomous security of energy supply in the interests of national security. I did not in vain point out the greater energy efficiency of the Nordic countries due to political decisions and simply the development of the economy and society. Where does the energy come from? In a stock exchange situation, it's going to be bought up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U14	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U15	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The government has decided to set up a steering committee for green policy. The board of directors is advising the government, isn't it? At the same time, it is still not clear to the Riigikogu whether and to what extent we can even speak in decisions that have a very difficult impact on our social life. Do you see any role in the Riigikogu here as a debate and can we, as a Riigikogu, shape the positions of the government at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U16	The government must make clear statements. The first point of discussion is now where the representative of the government, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, has the opportunity to say by the government what the government's view of the future will be, with a ten-year target, with a target for the coming year, how to reduce the rise in the price of electricity by the steps that are at the disposal of the Estonian government, the Estonian state legislator, as a regulatory measure. Secondly, which is extremely important: yes, I think that, in this situation, the basic rule of the parliamentary rule is that Parliament deals with important issues. At present, there is no other major issue in economic policy, so the legislator must take the initiative. I think that, because it has been pointed out by businesses, we should also have a so-called framework law that provides clear principles of operation and corridors of operation, so that we also need this type of framework law in the field of climate. It must be put in place at the legislative level, as is the case in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U17	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, I am pleased to congratulate you on addressing this issue, because for years the Estonian Conservative People's Party has been the one who has drawn attention to excise duties on various energy carriers and the need to reduce them, which has also been done in the previous government and met with business. But I'll come back to this CO2 issue and the price of electricity. For years, we've been talking, and EKRE's been keeping it in the picture for years, that one day we're gonna get to where we're going today. The question to you is this: do you think you support the idea that Estonia should look very strongly for the possibility of leaving the ETS or, at least [the participation there] for a period of time to get rapid relief for our economy and our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U19	Thank you. I think that the primary starting point must be that we must have a clear assessment of what will happen to us as a result of this system. At the moment, we do not have this assessment, but there are indications that the forecasts so far have flown up and we do not know what lies ahead. Secondly, yes, I do not support leaving the system as such, but I support that the system must be modernised in a way that meets the assumptions under which the system is built. In repeat, the price of trading units has changed in the speculative market. It is a question at all how justified or reasonable it is to trade these units in a speculative market to participate. In fact, there are so-called price jumps. The system must have a real automatic stabiliser, which will block the surge in prices. The current stabiliser, which is established, is a three-fold acceleration compared to the reference price of the previous year, which our expert gives a more detailed overview of, is not an adequate mechanism in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U20	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U21	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Well, electricity bills have been pretty complicated for a long time, and most people know what the final sum is. There's a carbon price, excise duty, renewable energy charge on the bill. The question is that quite a lot is also being said about renewable energy capacity, that we need to build them up and that is why these taxes and charges must be like this. What's your best knowledge today and recommendation to the government that the price of electricity be reasonable and rational and that people can pay it? What is the government supposed to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U22	Firstly, in the case of emissions trade in the European Union, Estonia, together with the Allied countries, must present a concrete package of measures that will put a real stabiliser on this so-called speculative price increase. Secondly, a transfer must be made from the Estonian budget, which concerns money that has been taken away more from people or which people have paid more for the CO2 quota by paying for it with their electricity bills. This money, the 200 million euros that Estonian consumers are expected to pay this year, must be redirected back in such a way as to bring the renewable energy fee to zero in this form, to put an end to this. Thirdly, an analysis must be made without delay of the Competition Authority's proposals (I spoke of this EUR 1.5 billion, of the forecast EUR 600 million in the price corridor for the next ten years) and of the overcompensation at all. However, as long as this analysis has not been carried out, the conclusions have not been drawn; we must also take into account the firm's investment certainty and the fact that under market economy conditions, no over-the-foot decisions should be made, this must be done with the provision of the state budget, which is covered by an additional, second load, or CO2 charge, paid by the Estonian consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U23	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U24	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! Let me remind you, under pressure from Brussels, the Ignalina power plant was shut down. The result? Electricity was purchased from Russia; Lithuania became dependent on Russia's energy. Germany is making a hero, the real name of which is the transition to Russian gas. Fair play, isn't it? We now buy Russian electricity at multiple prices from the stock exchanges and elsewhere via Finland. And there's a full circle. In fact, only recently did we have one of Europe's strongest energy security thanks to the independent energy production that we have been developing for over a hundred years. The circle is now full of us indirectly supporting Putin's war machine with our high electricity bills so that we can bang and kill people in Ukraine. It's a depressing situation. What can I do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U25	Thank you. Certainly, the decisions that have been made in the case of oil shale energy, I come back to the fact that you must not spit, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, into the old well if there is no new well. It is clear that sustainable, environmentally friendly, green, clean energy production is a goal. But we have to take into account, as I have emphasised, that we have an important element in this triangle, in addition to environmental friendliness, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, in fact, the price component, the consumer's ability to pay for electricity and, secondly, security of supply. Security of supply is real. I would point out that these aspects of oil shale energy should certainly be looked at. The use of by-products from the oil shale production and processing process in the circular economy should also be taken into account. These security of supply aspects must be taken into account and should certainly also contribute to the development of technologies for the capture, purification, storage and use of CO2 from flue gases. So the question is that decisions must be taken in a real economic, common sense context. We need electricity, it is our central input to cope here at all and to develop the economy and that people can cope. This presumption of security of supply must be guaranteed. Secondly, it must be within the reach of society. These two points of departure must be present. Thirdly, environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly energy production, of course. But they have to be balanced, right now this equilibrium point has shifted away. This, as the good questioner mentioned, also has a security-political, geopolitical dimension.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U26	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U27	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Dear waitress, Elering was created to bring an open electricity market to Estonia in 2010, when the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, the predecessor of the Fatherland, was a member of the government. To ensure security of supply, Elering is still developing foreign connections. Thanks to these external connections, last year the average electricity price was EUR 33 per megawatt. Do you think that the predecessor of the Fatherland made the wrong decision by establishing foreign connections and placing very large sums of taxpayers' money there? Do you think that if last year was the megawatt price of EUR 33, perhaps it would have been necessary to impose a higher national price and collect money from the people, even though there are fixed prices? How do you look back on the last 11 years of party energy policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U28	Thank you. No, I think the external connections for electricity we've done have been perfectly reasonable, Estlink 1 and 2. We have also seen that the maximum burden on the associations has not been enough to guarantee our need, even if we are talking about the volume of the Estonian and Finnish connections. So it is absolutely necessary to contribute to the connections so that we are a complete part of the European Union's energy cycle. It also has a security policy dimension. The proposal that regulatory measures will not further increase the price of electricity, I am not in favour of that. On the contrary, the whole path of my speech is that regulatory charges must be reduced. The question is, do we say for consolation that it is used by representatives of the government and the government coalition as an argument that you see, but in the past, the price of electricity was cheaper. But we live in the present, and we move to the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U29	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U30	Thank you. I guess the problem here is that you put your personal path to the Commission's analysis. Let me not congratulate you on this question being erected, as if the CO2 component in the price of electricity was something in itself. No, the CO2 component is an element of the green turn, and price burdens have a definite objective in order to change this energy policy. I don't even want to ask you anything, but since it's in the format, you'll try to somehow... I liked the introduction to Sven Sester's question. He said four things, so I'd call it about seven, but he had it all worked out. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If you were to actually try to say, what do you think are the components of the price increase other than CO2, and what can we actually change in real life, apart from such populist thoughts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U31	Time, Jurgen!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U32	Thank you. When we talk about the current energy portfolio we have in the country, CO2 is the main component of price pressure. In addition, when we are talking about two other elements, it is undoubtedly a contribution to the development of additional renewable energy generation capacities. Here, too, we have to take into account that in reality this is electricity produced on the stock exchange, in fact the need for electricity or the need for consumption arises throughout the Nord Pool system, and it is growing. We have to take this into account. Thirdly, I am talking about the price of electricity, when we are talking about a purely electricity bill for consumers, the price of electricity is one third, and two thirds are price inputs, which are network service, electricity excise, renewable energy support and VAT. These are the remaining elements and these elements can be changed by the State through regulatory decisions [to be amended], in particular with regard to support for renewable energy. For example, EUR 100 million next year or, for example, this year, if I am not mistaken, the indication that some EUR 100 million is expected was EUR 85 million additional VAT. We have to say that, in a situation where the price of electricity itself is rising, the state is actually further stimulating it through regulatory burdens. Regulatory burdens cannot be zeroed in reality. But it's definitely a place to analyze, is it wise to set up certain automatic stabilisers? It is possible for a country to do this, it is not something on the left, it is the opposite, it is the right. If the distorted market starts to produce too high price inputs, the regulatory price inputs will be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U33	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My colleague, Mrs Sibul, asked you what the three steps would be to reduce the impact of the rise in the price of the CO2 quota, among which you mentioned that zeroing the renewable energy charge would be one way to change the quota economy in cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. I am going to ask you this straight: how much do you appreciate the chance that other Member States will come along with your idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U35	Thank you. With a great deal of generalisation, you or the coalition government have actually proposed it and sent a letter to Brussels. True, Energy Commissioner Kadri Simson said that the false minister sent that the Minister for the Environment should have sent. But these are more nuanced circumstances. I think I really appreciate it. There is certainly a very strong political rhetoric and logic to move forward in a situation where we need to understand that if we look at the price of electricity, these tables exist, the Estonian electricity market compared to the market of Western European countries, then we have to admit that consumers, if we also take into account the higher standard of living, will be affected by these price shocks. It is a reality whether it rises by 0.5% or 5% of your income, figuratively, in the case of electricity. This undoubtedly results in the strength of the reaction. But we have to be brave, no one else stands up for us, we have to work out our position, set our position at the table, do it with dignity, not in an insulting way to our partners, and look for allies. But if we say we throw the gun in the bush before the battle, that it is a stormy sea, I don't think it's a rational and sensible thought. We must be honest, we must have an understanding of what will happen and why and what will happen in this way. The unpredictable situation is also, in fact, an element of the system that takes into account that there is an unpredictable environment, so that this environment needs to be changed, as far as possible, to be predictable by national decisions, but also by decisions taken in cooperation with Europe. All these objectives have been set by politicians; politicians can also reformulate these objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U36	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Sometimes a man is afraid of the dark. Now we're probably going to live in winter in a period of time when there's fear of light, because when the light bulb goes on, the electric bill that comes on can be very startling. But my question is not about the climate, and it is not about what the country can do specifically, but rather about the area of energy savings. There hasn't been much talk about energy saving today. True, it has been said that, on an individual level, if you cannot pay, the local government should help. But the question is whether the state is up to its task in this key to do everything it can to save energy. Are these indicators and targets sufficient for this? In local governments often, when the budget needs to be cut, it is said that we will leave street lighting to some negative mode for a week, and things have worked out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U38	Thank you. My central concern at the current situation.. energy savings will certainly help to effectively reduce people's electricity bills.. is precisely a concern about the possibilities and availability of energy savings for domestic consumers. I called it one thing. We know that it will also have a very strong economic backlash effect if there are builders, companies that help people to heat up housing. I think it is also reasonable to extend this programme to private homes within the framework of KredEx. This must be dealt with more vigorously, and it must certainly be one element. But it is clear that if we are now talking about the key to climate [policy] 2050, the numbers that have been written down to reduce emissions, then the investment burden of energy savings is foreseen for the next decade until 2030. I referred to the Stockholm Institute report. This means that there is about two-thirds pressure and the private sector is above all companies, but the public sector also needs to invest more than EUR 10 billion. That money's gonna have to be taken somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U39	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! As far as I am concerned, about half of households have a fixed price, so they are actually not affected by this price increase. If we start compensating for the price of electricity, what will happen to those who have paid all the time, that eight years a little more than the stock market price? I, too, have enjoyed this cheap stock market price, and now, unfortunately, because of market risks, maybe I'll pay a little more. So what about the half of the people who have paid more so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U41	Thank you. It is a specific decision by people which model they prefer. Certainly in the case of the price of this explosively increased electricity, if you go today and fix the price, this is one of the price corridors. No one has everlasting contracts in this logic, either, if we are looking at what level of price fixing we are currently looking at. The question in the current situation, when we are talking about bringing the renewable energy charge to zero, is that yes, in fact, it does not affect whether the package is fixed at a price or at a market price. For all consumers, be they domestic or industrial, the result is unambiguous. If you ask why this household consumer, who currently has a relatively lower price because he has a fixed package, would have to pay a lower renewable energy fee for electricity, I think the answer is very simple. I discussed this proposal with energy experts and also with economic experts and representatives of the country. It's the simplest and most foolproof model of how to do it. I understand that the government's proposal is very simple: the government's proposal is that we collect this money from the regulatory market and then we distribute it as 'poverty aid' or as'social assistance' to those people in deeper poverty again. My point is, if the price distortion has grown so exponentially, we'll take less money from the people and that's it. This, in my opinion, is a better, more honest and clearer way. Price increases have, as I said, a very important regulatory component. If one of the inputs to this price increase is a regulatory component and if we say it is not reasonable and bearable in terms of the competitiveness and performance of society, then actually, you have to blow out of another regulatory component, the valve. We can't, figuratively speaking, pump the price increase tyre so that the tire will explode. As Jaak Aaviksoo rightly wrote in the article of the ERR that the curve must also be taken out, we cannot drive out of the curve with all these political goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U42	Thank you very much. The time for questions and answers is over and we can call the next waitress, Mr Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The length of his report is 20 minutes, the questions and answers after that are 30 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu has one question. Please, Tavi Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is great to come to this remote when the previous speaker has just finished his speech by very well introducing my proposals. But let's do it in line. Let's start with what's behind the rise in electricity prices. Since 2013, after the opening of the electricity market, we are part of the North Baltic Power Exchange. It has served us well so far, bringing electricity prices to Estonia, which are lower from year to year than would have been the price on the captive market. For example, six out of the last ten years have left the price of electricity in the Estonian price area less than 40 euros for megawatts and less than 35 euros for megawatts in four years. Last year's price, EUR 33 per megawatt, meant, in short, that there was enough Nordic hydro and nuclear supply on the market to cover the Baltics' need for electricity in most hours, in addition to Scandinavia. In only a few hours there was a shortage of cheap hydropower supply and more expensive power plants in the region using fossil fuels were launched to meet demand: oil shale, coal or natural gas. However, the second half of this year has changed the situation in the electricity market. It was an exceptionally beautiful summer, not only in Estonia but also in Scandinavia. However, the lack of precipitation meant that less water was collected behind the Norwegian hydropower dams than usual. So much less that the amount of water behind the Norwegian hydropower dams is at its lowest level in the last 20 years. The capacity of the reservoirs of Norwegian hydroelectric plants was only 63% of the maximum in mid-September. In a year like this, prices on the electricity market will no longer be made by cheap hydropower, but also by power plants using fossil fuels, i.e. power plants in our region, coal and gas power plants, will have to be launched and operated. The rapid economic recovery is ongoing not only for us here in Europe, but also for Asia and North America. Recovery has generated an exceptionally high demand for energy and, in turn, has also driven the world market prices of fossil fuels. In the short term, the price of both coal and natural gas has multiplied. Both fuels are globally traded and supplies move to where fuel is willing to pay a higher price. Thus, demand from Asia has increased the price of natural gas in Europe and the gas markets in Asia by as much as five times as it was a year ago. However, more working hours for fossil fuel power plants also means that European electricity producers have also been forced to reserve additional CO2 quotas. So we are also witnessing an exceptionally rapid rise in the price of CO2 quotas. We are in a situation where Europe's power generation capacity is sufficient, but there is a shortage of the cheapest, weather-dependent capacities: hydropower and wind farms. As a result, fossil power plants across Europe are shaping prices, the price of which depends on the CO2 quota and the world market price for fuel. By the way, in Estonia's warm economy, we have done the necessary changes with much foresight. Most of Estonia's district heating customers have today been transferred to environmentally friendly local wood chips and their room temperature will not be affected by fluctuations in world market prices or the price of CO2. Thus, the growth of gas on the world market for customers of Tallinn's district heating system does not mean a surge in domestic heat bills. In comparison, in Vilnius, which is fuelled by natural gas, consumers are expected to have a 60% price increase this autumn and a 30% price increase in Helsinki, which is heated by natural gas and coal. Hopefully, in Narva, Estonia's third largest city, we will soon be able to achieve the same goal, decouple the city's district heating production from the use of fossil fuels and thus maintain the price of stable district heating in Narva. Here is a note to the Social Democrats that it is essential to start using chipping wood there, because if Narva were to switch to gas heating in the same way, it would mean a 60% price increase in Vilnius. I don't think that's what you want. Electricity prices are exceptionally high across Europe, with the highest in Western Europe, France and Germany, and in particular in the United States. The average price also exceeds our price level today. So what can we do? We do not have the lever to increase rainfall in Norway or create winds that would increase the production of European wind farms. Nor can we have much influence on the prices of fossil fuels in the global market. As has been said, this price is influenced by global demand and its growth in the wake of the COVID crisis. As electricity prices develop, the only components that depend on the European Union's energy and climate policy are the CO2 trading system and measures to accelerate the introduction of renewable energy into the market. In both cases, we have taken steps, but we need to understand that neither is a quick solution nor a magic wand. However, they must be dealt with so that we do not have such problems in the future. It is for this purpose that, in mid-September, I wrote to Vice-President Timmermans and Energy Commissioner Samson and drew their attention to the shortcomings in the European Union's emissions trading system. In particular, the emissions trading system is a mechanism designed to mitigate rapid price jumps. If I am not mistaken, it was Article 29, which should offer additional CO2 units to the market in the event of rapid price fluctuations. However, the system is designed at a time when the price of CO2 was five euros per tonne, not 60 euros per tonne. Thus, the multipliers that describe the corresponding price increase are clearly in the way of time. Simply put, the price on the quota market can rise too high before the market stability mechanism intervenes. I asked the teams of Commissioners to assess the situation and come up with their proposals to improve the system. At the meeting of the European Union Energy Ministers in Ljubljana last week, Estonia expressed the same view: the emissions trading system needs to be adjusted. More important than the European Union's energy consumer's high carbon price jumps, which are only reflected in the short-term increase in electricity prices but do not add any kilowatts of renewable energy, is the long-term target for the CO2 quota. Concerns about the rapid rise in electricity prices were shared by energy ministers from almost all European countries. Last week we also held a number of bilateral meetings with national representatives. Personally, I raised the issue with my Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues, who shared concerns and also promised their support. The European Commission is already coming up in October with its guidance on Member States' measures to reduce the pressure on the population on energy prices. However, it must be understood that the price of the CO2 emission quota is not the main engine for rapid price increases. From the electricity price of EUR 150, the CO2 quota is only about 20%, or EUR 30, for gas, EUR 60 for our oil shale. However, this is a measure that is administratively manageable, which is why I raised this issue at European level. The remaining price pressure is due to the high price of fuel, in particular the price of natural gas. If the price of natural gas on the world market starts to fall or if the amount of precipitation is normalised as it has been on average in the last ten years, the market price of electricity will also fall. A long-term solution to avoid such price shocks is greater entry of renewable energy, both dependent and independent of the weather. That's what we do in the government every day. The Riigikogu is in the process of amending the Electricity Market Act, Bill 156, which also creates wider possibilities for replacing expensive fossil fuel in Narva power plants with CO2-free waste wood. Members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support this draft. Once again, it helps to control the warm price of the city of Narva. We are already coming up in the last quarter with the largest renewable energy supply so far, which we want to give further impetus to the market for new renewable energy production of 45 gigawatts. This corresponds to some 150 megawatts of new wind farms. In 2023, we will announce an even greater shortage of renewable energy, this time 650 gigawatts of new renewable energy capacity. These less offers will only be possible because the previous and today's government has finally managed to find a solution and funding for the conflict between windmills and aerial surveillance radars that have long inhibited the development of Estonian wind energy. At the beginning of next year, the plan of Estonian maritime areas will also come to the end, with which we will be able to start developing wind farms at sea. In addition to existing projects, we have also launched the development of a joint sea wind park with Latvia, which will create additional opportunities for companies to invest in marine wind energy. At the end of the year, the Riigikogu will arrive at a draft with which we will offer a solution to the issue of the coexistence of wind farms and local communities. Once the draft comes into force, the household living near the wind farm in the local government planning the wind farm will have a fortress of how the wind farm contributes directly to the local population and community budget. In addition to the above steps to encourage the entry of renewable energy capacity into the market, we decided to move gradually towards the transition of public electricity consumption to renewable energy in the government at the beginning of September. We plan to use long-term contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, fixing part of the national public sector's energy consumption at a fixed price for the next seven to ten years. Such direct contracts for renewable electricity provide producers with the necessary stability and forecast cash flow and allow for the construction of production facilities without additional State support. With this model, for example, there are thousands of megawatts of new wind farms already being built and planned in Finland. At the same time, this year's extraordinary year has pointed out even more clearly why it has been the right decision of the Estonian Government, made by the previous government, to keep at least 1000 megawatts of production capacity available in Estonia at any given time. I consider this to be the most important decision of the previous government in the field of economic and energy, and I am pleased that we have managed to make this decision together with our partners. It's an extremely good decision. There are periods, maybe years in the future, if that power is not needed. However, this year clearly shows that there will be periods when we cannot manage only weather-dependent renewable energy plants. Good people's representatives! Of course, this year's increase in energy prices across Europe, including Estonia, is painful and shows the weaknesses of the existing system. I believe that we have an opportunity to correct these bottlenecks, and I think we must do so too. As regards the increase in the renewable energy charge and how much it is paid, the auctions carried out under the new renewable energy scheme also have a marginal price from which this charge is no longer paid to producers. In fact, in today's market situation, the aid is no longer paid on an auction basis, as the price of electricity is already so high that there is no need and no need for support for producers. Unfortunately, indeed, we still have those energy producers who work under the previous scheme, where there was a fixed renewable energy fee. The proposals to change it afterwards, I think, are probably not legally correct according to legitimate expectations. But I assure you that the new auctioning renewable energy fee allocations are already those that take into account the market price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U44	Thank you very much. Now you can ask questions. There are 30 minutes for questions and answers. First Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U45	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, If there is a desire to control the price of heat in Narva, then such a bill could be brought to this hall. If we have a draft that permits the burning of wood not only in Narva but everywhere, it does not put a border on somewhere, and in fact there is no instrument in the draft that would in any way limit the cost of energy for Narva, it is in no way a proportionate or practical solution for the people of Narva and Narva. But you have also brought here the bill for the hall, which will result in an increase in renewable energy charges of 30 to 40% depending on the year. Is it not hypocritical to show the Brussels side who is responsible for our high electricity prices before the elections, but to want to raise the renewable energy charge by a third or more?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U46	Thank you. Yes, I have listened to your colleague's reasoning from this very remote point of view about how the renewable energy charge is going to rise. To be honest, I think he was halfway through his discussions. I was waiting for him to square it one more time and then another cube, and then he gets another bigger number. The real life is that renewable energy prices will definitely decrease. It doesn't raise anyone's renewable energy fee. Renewable energy charges will decrease as companies receiving support under the old scheme start to exit the market. So certainly the fee will decrease in the future, as early as next year. As far as the city of Narva is concerned, 60% of Estonia's heat is produced in cogeneration plants, using first and foremost chipping wood, and, as I said, it helps us to keep prices under control in today's situation. The more we use this timber, the greater the certainty that our prices will remain under control, not 60% as in Vilnius or 30% as in Helsinki. Thanks to our use of chipping wood, we can maintain prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U47	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U48	Thank you! Couple of mischiefs. First of all, in Narva boilers, no one forbids burning wood. You want the consumer to pay for this renewable energy charge, that is the effect on electricity prices. Secondly, as far as heating Narva is concerned, indeed, this bill now allows wood to be burned at the Auvere power plant, where most heat is simply poured into the river. This has nothing to do with heating Narva. With regard to this second draft, the increase in the renewable energy fee, 344, see page 9 of your draft explanatory memorandum. Don't lie about this remote. Compared to the existing situation, this draft will increase the renewable energy fee by a third, as confirmed by the Competition Authority. Look what you're saying. But my question is about this, fortunately, you didn't write such stupid things in your letter, but you did say publicly that you should put the ceiling, 25 euros, on a ton of CO2. Could you describe what this system would look like in your vision, for example, compared to the linear reduction factor, the price ceiling you've proposed? What would this market look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U49	Thank you. That's one way. Look at the price of CO2. This depends on demand. In today's situation where demand continues to grow, this essentially means that the price of electricity is so high that there is no longer any difference in substance, which is the price of CO2. Demand exists, electricity is produced and the price of the CO2 quota is no longer affecting electricity generation. All fossil fuel plants operate at full capacity and not just in Estonia. The price of CO2 has no impact on this. The only thing that happens is that the consumer will pay for it. In this sense, it is the price of a quota of CO2 like a human appendix that exists, but it does not benefit from it, it no longer regulates anything. If such a situation has arisen, we need to think about how to get out of it. As I said in my speech, there really is a market intervention mechanism in this quota system, but this intervention mechanism does not work, because it is firstly based on a very low price. [[A voice from the hall.]] There the average price is calculated as compared to the average prices of the previous periods and intervention accordingly takes place. That's one way. But this system also needs to be reformed, because at today's price, this system is no longer working. The second option is simply to set a price cap, from which additional quota quantities must be placed on the market in order to maintain this price. Two options. One of them has to be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U51	Good manager! Good waitress! Less than a year ago, OTRK was here from the green turn, and there was an energy advisor or energy manager Kadri Simson. I listened to his speech, such optimism debilitating. It's a whole different story right now. But I ask you how long this horror will last and how the high price of electricity will affect all other areas. Please shed some light on the different areas of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U52	Thank you. The price of electricity is that the price of electricity will eventually reach the consumer, either directly through the domestic electricity bill or through the electricity bill paid by a company, because this component is also included in the price of the goods or services sold to the consumer. So it affects us all, even if we have a fixed price package and we feel that today's stock market price means nothing to us. Through the economy, it affects all of us. How long is this gonna last? No one can predict how long this will last. Maybe, I don't know, it's gonna be such a winter that the snow is very much, it's gonna rain a lot in the autumn, and there's gonna be a lot of snow in the winter. Nordic hydropower plants will then be able to operate at full load and our situation will be considerably better. Maybe there's more wind, and again things are better. But in order for us to enjoy hydropower better, we need additional connections with Finland. This is inevitable because our connections are operating at full capacity and they simply cannot, because the border must be brought down at the moment at market price. But in order to avoid situations such as those we have today in the future, we need to deal with those regulators that have to work at the right time. Apparently, the regulators aren't working right now. But there is no very big reason for optimism in the long run. Let us look at the climate targets, look at the targets for the transport sector: the transfer of cars, including heavy goods vehicles, to electricity supply, will significantly increase the need for energy. At the same time, in Europe, as we all know, nuclear plants are being shut down, coal plants are being shut down. So it's hard to predict the cost of energy. As far as hydrogen is concerned, which is also one of the alternatives, I cannot tell you how many apples have to fall on someone's head so that people can understand that the laws of physics are firmly in force. Hydrogen production requires almost twice as much electricity. If we want to contribute to hydrogen technology, we need even more electricity. So the demand for energy will certainly remain, in the future it will rather grow. Yes, there will also be wind farms that can be used to meet demand, and I think they are good. But the need for controlled power generation will certainly remain exactly the same. No one can guarantee that [it doesn't happen]: maybe the next summer is also beautiful, we enjoy the summer and then we find ourselves in a situation where the price of energy is as it is today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U53	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have been talking here about domestic consumers, actually companies and companies that are strongly affected by this increase in electricity prices. However, I think we have left another large consumer, the local authorities, out of attention. We have said unfortunately little about them. Municipalities have invested heavily in sustainability. In particular, I mean that new LED lamps have been introduced in lighting. Nevertheless, this price increase hits the municipalities very hard. Have you discussed in the government how to further help municipalities if now this plan, which you have also said yourself, is not going to be implemented so that at least this part of the renewable energy fee should be compensated somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U55	Thank you. We have, as I said in my speech, made decisions concerning the state's energy consumption in order to fix as much as possible the price of energy consumed in the country. I very much hope that there are local authorities that have done so. I know that Tallinn, for example, has long been buying green energy and buying it at a fixed price. So, above all, of course, as for the consumer, the most secure is the fixed package, the fixed price. Yes, as we have heard here, there are moments of time when the stock exchange price is cheaper, but unfortunately, as energy demand is increasing, it can be assumed that it is more useful to use a fixed package than to play the stock exchange at stock exchange prices. I'm afraid that's true. But yes, in this respect, I agree with you that, in addition to all of us, this also affects local authorities and, certainly, through local authorities, people who consume local government services again. But the fact that we are really very intensively transcend street lighting to LED technologies, I think, is a very big step towards helping to cope with this situation. It has to be said that local authorities are very good here and have been very busy exchanging street lighting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U56	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U57	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Why don't you give me a little insight, both in the big picture and in the local view? Estonia has already brought its own economy's greenhouse gas intensity below the EU's 2030 targets. At the same time, however, the European Commission is proposing to further accelerate the implementation of climate commitments in Estonia for other Member States. Do you think it is right that Estonia fulfils the climate commitments of other Member States and that Estonian consumers and industry can be punished for this? This current increase in electricity prices is the first swallow on this front. Secondly, with regard to price and security of supply in the overall local perspective, Kaja Kallas has said that the only solution for him is if we are increasingly introducing wind farms and solar parks. It sounds nice in theory, of course, but in practice it means about ten years until we get there. When and with what capacity are the next wind farms going to power the grid? How can the Estonian people, the Estonian economy and also the local governments, who were already mentioned, manage until then? How are we all gonna make it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U58	Thank you. In this sense, I am in trouble to answer your question that I cannot tell you how we are fulfilling the climate commitments of other countries. Yes, Estonia has committed itself. Indeed, the new climate package is one that will increase these commitments. My personal opinion is that once we have taken one goal, we should go to the end with this goal. This [enlargement of liabilities] is called increasing ambition. But changes in energy are taking place very slowly. It'll take all the time. As you said, wind farms do not come up in an instant. The constant increase in this ambition, I think, is more confusing in the market than offering opportunities to carry out this process. Personally, I absolutely don't like the word "greening." Rather, it is a green process. It's not like we're just turning around and everything's changed. It's a long process. It is not right to change goals repeatedly in this long process. New wind farms, I think, will definitely come to the mainland first, because indeed, we have reached the point that 70% of Estonia is where wind farms can be erected in 2024-2025. It is thanks to the acquisition of these two radars that we have freed these regions. As radars will be in place in 2023 and 2024, wind farms could also work there in the same years: 2023, 2024 or 2025. This could be an important contribution. Surely what the Prime Minister said that wind farms and solar parks will help us along this road and help us to keep the price under control is right. Yeah. The more capacity we have, the more secure and bold we can be in the energy market, and the more confident we can feel in terms of energy prices. So having production capacities is necessary, but as today's situation shows, it is also necessary to revise the regulations on CO2 quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U59	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U60	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very balanced presentation. I wanted to clarify your position on some of the expressions that have been thrown into the air by the previous speaker. In fact, Elering has developed an open energy market in our region, but your previous speaker claimed that we have a speculative price for electricity here in Estonia. Is it a speculative price, or is it the market price on the open market? That's one thing. The second question that the previous speaker has put into the air is that, if there is a shortage of energy, countries will unify transnational associations and use national energy for themselves. We plan very extensive development of parks, half of Estonia's energy production goes to the Gulf of Livonia. Where does the energy produced there come to the land, in Estonia or Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U61	Thank you. I find it somewhat difficult to translate the words of the previous speaker, but I think by this speculative market he meant the CO2 quota market. There really is a possibility of speculation in the trading of CO2 quotas. By the way, today is a situation where not all countries have yet brought their free quotas to the market. There may be two reasons. One thing is waiting for winter. We all know that autumn will come, winter will come, and what will happen in autumn and winter at the cost of energy will be very difficult to predict. We'd rather not see a fall in prices. This is why countries keep them in reserve. But it cannot be ruled out that some of them are being kept because they see that it will soon get better. So today's quota trading system really provides an opportunity for speculation. Is it used or not used? No one's been caught, you can't point the finger. But there's a chance. That is why intervention mechanisms must be such as to prevent them from playing at higher CO2 prices. It's important. Will the cable come to Estonia or Latvia? We're in the middle of some research. To say exactly where the cable comes to the ground, or even to say exactly where this wind farm can be located, is a little early. But it is important that it is a joint project of two countries, which also gives us the opportunity to use support measures, in particular to build this very cable. A very large part of the cost of sea wind parks is the connection to land. Where exactly is the cable going to be? Well, research will show you how it makes sense. Deficiencies. We really have not seen a situation where countries are somehow going to cut off connections with other countries in the energy deficit so that they can consume themselves. But we should also not forget what happened in transport at the beginning of the COVID crisis. There were countries that started to think first about themselves and closed borders without letting through the trades, which put other countries in a very difficult position. We are not in a situation today where we have a shortage of energy so that we should start cutting back on consumption. Luckily, we still have those controlled stations we can use. But when it comes to limiting consumption, it is already difficult to predict how one country or another will behave.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U62	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In the context of electricity, we are talking about Eesti Energia and Elering, both of which are linked to wind farm developments, one is building merger capacity, the other is planning investments. In addition, there will also be public money with plans, radars and everything else. I think it is fair for a citizen, an Estonian citizen, to ask when this koop will end up in Estonia and whether the capacity of Eesti Energia to start building under market conditions is really there in Tootsi Suurus, for example. The connection capacity has been built up, and we all actually pay it every day with our energy bills, but the revenue actually does not come into the market as renewable energy. Let's put this litigation aside, but is there any way that you can knock it out in terms of funding channels?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U64	Thank you. I'm pretty sure it exists. It is true that the general meeting of Eesti Energia is the Minister of Finance. He is certainly more competent to answer questions concerning Eesti Energia. But I'm pretty sure that capacity exists. The argument is whether Toots' wind farm will go under the first scheme or whether it will have to go under the second scheme. But when we look at today's market prices, we can see that there is little difference between the position of electricity generation and how many schemes it is. In any case, even on a market-based basis, it is already worth producing wind energy, there would be only wind. I do not see any reason why Eesti Energia should still delay the beginning of the construction of this park.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U65	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You also said here that you don't like the concept of a green turn. At all, it seems that your coalition partner is perhaps a little more passionate about the green turn. But the coalition agreement is a coalition agreement and it states that we will exit oil shale electricity production by 2035 at the latest and use oil shale in energy as a whole by 2040 at the latest. So how exactly are you going to implement this goal? Will you come to Parliament with a bill to stop or prohibit the use of oil shale in Estonia, or would you prefer to give this sector a death blow with taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U67	Thank you. Neither one nor the other. This year has shown that controlled energy is definitely needed. Perhaps in order to give up oil shale energy completely, we must have confidence that we will be equipped with electricity at all times. One of the sources of certainty is certainly greater renewable energy production, or rather the storage of renewable energy. But it assumes that there is more renewable energy than we consume at some point, and it has to be quite a lot more. As I said, when we talk about hydrogen, so that electricity becomes hydrogen and hydrogen becomes the electricity that we use again, there are energy losses there in the meantime, and they are inevitable, and there are also losses in transport. So wind or solar power are also considerably more needed for hydrogen production. There must certainly also be fully managed energy production opportunities. Until 2035 or 2040, we have 15 years to prepare ourselves for this, to find ways to produce either controlled energy, or, as discussed here, to capture carbon, to find solutions. I think that there are few countries that today produce electricity from fossil fuels, but they are not trying to think about what the alternative is or how to use these same fossil fuel stations, if necessary, but to use them so that they do not contaminate the environment. So I think we have enough time to make wise decisions. But surely you can't make decisions just to ban or just kill with taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U68	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Before I ask, I think it would be good if you could elaborate on the Riigikogu. You said that some countries speculate on the sale of these units. As is well known in the European Union, each country has to deliver a certain amount of units and put up for sale each week. Can you tell me what kind of data you have, which countries are breaking these rules? But my question to you is this. Your government currently earns EUR 300 million in additional annual revenue from higher electricity prices, which is the sale of the CO2 quota and VAT. Why, instead of actually using this money to provide relief for people and businesses, such as zero renewable energy charges or support for district heating systems or something else, is the government using this money to reduce the budget deficit by 400 million? Don't you think it's unfair that we're reducing the deficit with enormous electricity bills?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U70	Thank you. First of all, for the sake of protocol: I certainly did not say that I have any information that anyone is speculating. Definitely. I said today's quota system will give us a chance to do that. Does anyone take this opportunity? I don't know how to answer it. But as far as I know, there are countries that have not yet entered the market. They can have a very pragmatic reason, whether or approaching autumn and winter. So I don't want to point fingers at anyone, but I'm saying this system allows it. Use of CO2 money. Yes, I too believe that this greater collection should certainly be used to compensate. It is true that it is not possible to use all of this, because this money for the sale of the CO2 quota is divided so that 50% must be used for specific purposes and in 50% we are free to use. Fortunately, Estonia has made such a decision. Estonia could also have decided that we would use 100% only to achieve the green objectives. Then that money would really be locked. So the answer to your question: yes, I also support that we should use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U71	We'll be able to take the last question. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U72	Minister, thank you very much. You rightly said that many still have to experience an apple falling on their head before they begin to understand how objective laws of nature operate. But from this point of view, I have been chasing a great deal of the question of how large the green mark of the life cycle of renewable energy production resources is. I mean, their production, their write-off, all-all-all. Those of you who are pro-prone can't explain to me the nature of this green footprint. But I think you, as a minister, should be able to tell me if this footprint is less than the footprint we produce when using fossil fuels. Actually, I don't think that's the case, but a lot of scientists say there isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U73	Thank you. To be honest, this is a very difficult question. There are scientists who agree that the footprint is smaller, but there are also scientists who are absolutely certain that this footprint may not be so much smaller. I think the question is that production is also different. If we take a windmill, for example, it is certainly wind energy production with less footprint than gas or oil shale production. That's pretty clear. If we go to the solar panels, the situation is a little more complicated, because at some point these solar parks need to be used. What does this process look like? I really don't know how to answer that. But it will certainly be a concern in the future or an additional problem that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U74	Thank you very much to the Minister for Economic Affairs. We can invite the third waitress, Marko Allikson, member of the board of Baltic Energy Partners OÜ. The length of the report is 20 minutes and after 30 minutes there are questions and answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U75	Hello, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. My presentation is, above all, about the rise in the price of the CO2 quota and electricity prices. I'll start with my background. For the last few decades, I have been active in the trade in energy, electricity and gas carbon quotas. So I've been very close to this subject. I am talking today, in particular, about the market price for electricity, which is not a regulated price, but depends at the same time on many factors, including the price of CO2. There's a picture of my bill in this presentation. The electricity part, in particular, is what I buy at the stock market price, and that is what I am talking about. I am not talking about everything else, taxes, renewable energy charges, cost-based network service. Electricity markets operate in such a way that the price on the stock exchange is determined by a marginal producer, the last power plant to access the market, on the basis of its variable costs. On this slide, you will also see that about 20% of European electricity production is based on natural gas. If prices rise to EUR 100-160 on the spot market, this is the level at which electricity can be produced in a gas power plant today. It includes CO2 consumption, it includes fuel consumption, it also includes operating costs. As you can see, by looking at the level at which coal plants can produce today, it is considerably closer to 100 euros, or the gap with gas plants is quite large. If the price rises to such higher altitudes, then the price is actually determined by the gas plants. Here's a bit of a macroeconomic picture. You can see a schedule where variable costs increase from the bottom up and from the right to the left there are production capacities in the system. There is always wind in the market, sun, water whose variable costs are essentially close to zero, and cogeneration plants that have to work because they produce heat. Next, there are always nuclear plants on the market because their variable costs are similarly very low. Next, gas power plants, future oil shale plants, coal plants, etc., until the moment when demand is finally met. Let's look at a picture of the Baltics. Imports from Russia are the same as they help to form the price, as well as imports from other countries of the European Union. The main, biggest change in recent months is that since about July, gas price increases have been so rapid that oil shale and coal plants and gas plants have changed their place. Gas stations have become the most expensive. If consumption is at such a level that it has to use gas plants, the price will, unfortunately, rise very high. To sum up, if you look at the level of electricity prices, why it is like this, there are three major sets of effects. First of all, the price has risen because it has been cold. The economy has grown very rapidly since COVID's recovery and consumption has been high. During the summer, the situation continued to be hot and windless, making similar use of CO2-producing fossil fuels. Of course, once again, the price of gas, which really has risen to record levels in recent times. In the Nordic countries, in addition to previous prices, there has been a shortage of hydropower and wind power, as well as connections with continental Europe. A new connection to Norway and Germany has already started this year and a new connection to Great Britain is coming into operation. Great Britain currently has the highest prices in Europe. If this association is added, it will certainly not lower prices but rather increase prices. As for the level of hydropower, at the moment, resources are about 20 terawatt-hours less than the long-term average. Let's see today's news. Statnett, a Norwegian system operator, has warned that there may be security of supply problems in certain areas of Norway where there is a serious shortage of water. There are other reasons for the Baltic States, which have influenced the price above all upwards. Two of them should be read out. The first is that since November 2021, supplies at the borders of Russia and Belarus have been reduced, in particular because Lithuania has not wanted to buy Astravets nuclear power. In addition, our price is also affected by the fact that our connections with Latvia are higher than in the past. In fact, Latvia and Lithuania have always been a little higher in the price area and prices are converging. We no longer have the same prices as Finland; our prices are somewhat higher. All these influences affect a little bit. Can't say one is very big and the other is very small. But the change in the price of gas is probably what needs to be highlighted. Look at this picture right here. It is the rapid rise in gas prices that is the main cause of the increase in prices. In this picture, the price level of fossil fuels, CO2 and electricity is set at 100% at the beginning of this year. As can be seen, coal prices have risen to around twice, 200%, quota prices to around double. This green painted area is the spot price of electricity, the monthly price, which is more than twice the level of January. But this blue line is the price of gas, and as you can see, it's several times different from everyone else. So the price of gas has gone up pretty fast. I prepared my presentation this weekend using Friday's data. It can be said that prices have increased further in the last two days. Currently, the price of Brent oil is over $80 per barrel, the price of coal is approaching $150 per tonne, the price of CO2 is €65 per tonne and the price of gas is over €80 per megawatt-hour. Maybe it's all going on here, too, and they keep making new records, even while we're talking. No one really anticipated such an increase in the price of gas. Here's a picture of how exactly the same source a year ago predicted that gas could probably be another fuel with a negative price, because oil was indeed traded at a negative price in spring of last year. This year it is warned that if there really is a cold winter and there may be a risk of gas shortages, the price may be several times higher. In this case, this $100 is the price per MMBtu. It is about 270 euros per megawatt-hour. The main reason the gas price has risen to this level is because there are few stocks in the tanks, so let's say record few. Unfortunately, there is no easy way to increase them either. Our biggest suppliers in Europe are not flexible enough to be able to increase their production quickly. The alternative to bringing gas to Europe as LNG is also expensive, as prices are rising in Asia, particularly in China, and this means that, unfortunately, other countries are still picking up gas prices. At the moment, there is no place in the world where fuels are very cheap. Everyone's in this situation. We're not alone, we're in this situation with everyone else. If you come from the gas to the electricity and give an example, then after 15 September there was also a discussion in the media about how this price still rose to 160 euros. As you can see from the picture, we had prices that were even lower than in Germany, but higher than our neighbours. It was a quiet day, which means the gas stations were totally operational. Estlink's connection to Finland, where the price is lower, was somewhat restricted by Estlink's connection. Finland has done very well in the future. They will have a new nuclear power plant in place next year and a significant amount of new wind power will be available. So Finland will probably continue to be a cheaper region. The Polish-Lithuanian connections were in maintenance on that day, and not only the connection with Lithuania, but actually the Polish connection with Sweden. On that day, mostly coal-fired Poland had a cheaper price. In addition to unilateral capacity, Lithuania imposed additional restrictions on the border with Belarus. All of them combined caused prices to be record. Of course, if fossil fuel records continue, it is not excluded that there will be more electricity records. Spot price is one thing, it's what's seen on the power exchange day ahead, and those who buy at the stock exchange price feel it in their pockets. But the prices of long-term transactions are also rising. So when someone goes to make a new fixed price contract, these prices are not cheap, they are certainly significantly higher than they have been before. This picture shows that price levels above EUR 100 per megawatt-hour will continue until spring next year according to the current market estimate. Looks like the price in the second quarter is less than 100 euros. If we look at the prices of the year, next year the price of the whole year will be around 100 and the following year will be around 80. But in fact, it is also true in the case of electricity that could be seen in Bloomberg, where a year ago it was thought that the gas price would be negative, and now it is thought to be in hundreds. The markets are unfortunately not very predictable. This is not the final truth, it is the market's current view of this state of affairs, given what the market knows. Unfortunately, the market doesn't always know everything or doesn't really appreciate it. There is certainly a great deal of emotion in it, especially because of the rise in the price of gas, as winter is approaching and does not know what kind of weather is coming. No one can really predict that. But let's look at the long-term prices expected in the Nordic countries. Here's a picture of Nord Pool's system price, quoted ten years in advance. It is clear that next year's system price will be higher, but for the next nine years it will again be less than EUR 35. It means that everything that rises, in terms of price, will probably fall. In the long term, electricity connections are expected to increase in the Nordic countries and prices will converge between different regions. For example, if today a wind power producer or someone else goes to a bank and tries to get a good price on these high prices, it will not be able to do so, because in the long term price levels are still seen at a lower level. Years aren't brothers. It is worth recalling last year when prices were significantly different. The fact that today prices are at the level they are, and even if the price forwards say that next year the price should be at that level, may not be the truth, because the market may change faster than we can foresee. EUA prices that have been discussed today. Here is a picture of the rise in EUA prices. This blue area is just the average monthly EUA price. There is also such a red line, which is, in fact, the limit in the context of Article 29a of the European Union Directive, that if this blue area should go over the red, then the price of the EUA should be regulated. As you can see, this blue price is well below. Therefore, such automatic mechanisms to regulate EUA prices will not work; they will not be operational. Why did those prices go up in the spring? Of course, there was an increase in demand, climate ambitions. With these ambitions, they came out, and they give rise to expectations. A new trading phase also began. In the past, installations immediately received the allowances for the following year, but this year a very large part of the demand increased because a new phase began and the new phase quotas were only received in the summer, while the quotas for the previous year had to be granted in spring. That meant a lot of people had to buy. If there's buying pressure, the price's gonna go up. That is why these prices have risen by about May to the same level as they were practically throughout the summer. There are certainly places in the EUA trading system that can be improved. It is likely that this system can be made more flexible in some way and faster to meet price signals. It is clear that the current mechanism will not work under any circumstances, at least with regard to the current price increase. At present, this price should rise sharply over EUR 100 in order for this automatic mechanism to work, but this morning the price was EUR 65 per megawatt-hour. So there's still room. There are other things that have a rapid impact on prices, such as a faster distribution of free quotas by countries. These quotas were distributed by the European Union at the end of June. Estonia immediately gave these quotas to installations, many countries still gave them, but there are countries that have not yet given them. Of course, this means that some part of the offer is off the market. All these things affect prices. In the European Union, there is also the ETS Market Stability Reserve, which could probably be more flexible. Similarly, if there is a feeling that these quotas are too few and prices are moving up, it may be possible to allocate them to the system. Similarly, speculative trading. As climate ambitions are great, this speculation comes very much from being a one-way road. We know that price will only rise because demand will only increase, increase and increase. If anyone only wants to contribute to price increases in the long term, it is very reasonable to buy EUAs. You have to look at things like that. These are areas of system design or mechanism that could certainly be improved. I will also say a few thoughts on how the price of electricity can be influenced. First of all, I would like to say that the means of reducing the price of electricity must not be sought at the expense of the future. The free electricity market has demonstrated a very strong viability so far and the market has managed to keep electricity prices at EUR 38.7 per megawatt-hour over the last 10 years. Certainly no regulation would have been able to deliver in this way. This price has just come to us from outside, elsewhere. I would say that these connections have been the reason why this price has been low for ten years. Now we have reached a place where the price is no longer low and, of course, we must respond adequately to it. On the other hand, 90% of the time the wholesale price is not determined by Estonian oil shale plants, not at all. If oil shale plants had more emission quotas or electricity prices were not cheaper, simply because they did not set the price. The price shall be determined by the marginal manufacturer. If this marginal producer's price comes from, for example, Sweden or somewhere else, then we have nothing to do with it. We are one of the producers who produce, but there is not enough electricity produced in Estonia. Today, I have just looked at the consumption of over 1,000 megawatts, the production capacity is above 900 megawatts. That means we're short of electricity. We always have electricity to buy. If this purchased electricity is at a higher price, our price will be higher regardless of the price Narva Power Plants want to sell. The carbon trading system and the electricity market are directly linked to all market participants. There's no way to separate them. It cannot be said that we are in the carbon market, but there is no electricity market or vice versa. Unfortunately, for all those who are not on our electricity market, the European Union rather assumes that carbon will be taxed in some way elsewhere. Changing existing renewable energy subsidies is certainly not very sensible either. This makes Estonia, where investment in renewable energy is needed, not more attractive to investors, but rather less attractive. More investment is needed, not less investment. As I said, the Baltic States as a whole are bringing in about half of the electricity they need. We need connections. What can help to reduce prices more quickly? In the coming winter, the only thing that will help...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U76	Dear waitress, we have an agreed time limit. Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U77	I'll finish in a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U79	...weather. A reduction in gas prices may indeed help to reduce gas consumption. There may be some impact on the activities of the system operators here. In the long run, new connections are needed, Estlink 3 maybe. Accelerating the development of renewable energy, storage technologies, energy efficiency, consumer flexibility and issues such as identifying nuclear energy and hydrogen opportunities. I did my presentation on Sunday night, and I sent it, but I'm also saying, don't spit in the old well until the new one's ready. Perhaps you can influence the administrative part, you can use higher CO2 auction revenues either to compensate for the components of the electricity bill or to compensate for the price increase. Excise duty or VAT can always be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U80	Members of the Riigikogu also have questions for you. Start Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Marko Allikson! An excellent macro picture of why energy prices have moved like this and a very good explanation. Thank you so much for that. I was forced to ask about the slide you said that no one could have anticipated such an increase in the price of gas in the past. Would you respond to the household consumer whose bill has increased four times as compared to the same time last year? What are the steps they should take? You may not be able to do so on the basis of your position, but still consider that there are people all over Estonia who are currently doing calculations. So how are we supposed to proceed? With a stock market price, what, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U82	If you answer whether you should choose between a stock exchange price and a fixed price, I understand that the question was that, then I always choose the stock exchange price. It's just that I know that in the long term, stock market prices are always cheaper by a certain margin. It must be taken into account that a comparison between the fixed price and the exchange price must be made over the whole period. If you compare the whole period, that's why I'm picking the stock market today. I don't know how to make any other suggestions. However, I would advise not to fix the price at the moment when prices are in heaven because of emotions or everything else. I think it should be a prudent decision. To win and receive a better price through a fixed price than a stock market price ♪ it is very difficult. Energy traders are also unable to do this well, very often missed, not to mention the consumer who makes his or her contracts once a year, at the end of the year or at the moment when this topic is being discussed in the media. It's very difficult to make that decision. It's a bit like winning a casino to get a better fix on the exchange price: the house always wins. Therefore, stock exchange prices should always be cheaper in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U83	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U84	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Very enjoyable, first really analytical and meaningful presentation. As a result, I have several questions, you could try to answer them at once. Firstly, on the basis of what you have said, it is obvious that a third line is needed between Estonia and Finland. How do you feel about it not being actively established so far? The second question is what is being distributed here by the Minister, how we can influence the price of the stock exchange through our subsidies. That is mostly not true. But can you say that? However, I think a few hours have been lately when Narva's very large production has had some small impact on the price in our region. The third question is how much you see, as an energy seller, that, for example, investing in the self-generation of electricity in larger companies could be the solution. How much potential could there be that could be exploited?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U85	Thank you. I'm gonna start with the last one, which is the question I remember best. Maybe you'll have to repeat those last questions. Yes, it is many who do so in commercial companies to produce electricity to cover their own production. Wood companies and many other companies do so. Certainly, in order to obtain long-term price stability, it can be good and especially if there are any residues or parts of production processes that can be used to produce electricity. It is undoubtedly reasonable to encourage this. Finland is a particularly good example. Finnish companies are generally much larger than Estonian companies and large volumes can also be achieved. Finland's largest individual electricity producers are the UPM and, in fact, such industrial companies, which also produce a great deal of electricity. Of course, this is one area. Remember these other questions. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, line three. Frankly, I don't know exactly, I'm not the system operator. It is possible that the system operator has spoken to the Finnish side about this. I'm sure it's worth asking Elering if they're doing this and how progress is. There was also the third question. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yes, as I said, over 90% of the time is actually determined by other power plants. There must be hours when Narva stations will determine it. When calculating the head: if the price of CO2 rises by EUR 1 per tonne, then at Narva stations, depending on the station, it will affect the price of 0.9 to 1.2 euros per megawatt-hour. The coal plant has about one to one and the gas station has about 0.4 euros per megawatt-hour. This means that if we look at the big picture, oil shale plants are actually cheaper than coal plants, because the price of coal has increased rapidly recently, but in Narva plants the price of fuel has not increased rapidly recently. This means that they are entering the market all the time now and, of course, there may be moments when they set the price. But if you look at the days of the last few weeks when the prices were 140-160, Narva stations didn't set anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U86	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U87	Good manager! Good performer! That's a really good report. My question, I believe, is one that is strongly opposed to many emotional populists. Namely, I am the representative of the generation that has still used oil shale gas. As gas prices rise, it makes sense [to think] that using modern technology and all the possibilities, we could produce oil shale gas for our country if we were to approach it correctly. How do you look at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U88	Certainly, all competitive fuel types [technologies] could be well developed. But I think this question should be addressed to Narva Power Plants. They will certainly deal with oil shale gas to the extent that it is available to the market. As far as I know, it is also partly used in electricity generation. That means it's in use. But there are certainly physical limits to the extent to which it can be used, the extent to which it is available at all. But I think this is a direct question for Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U89	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U90	Thank you. Good waitress! It is a pity that your report was neither the first nor the starting point. If I wanted to write more about something, then [I mean] this place where you said very well about the renewable energy charge. If I pulled something off, it would end when you said that we had reduced VAT and excise duties in our hands. This is certainly not a long-term solution, nor is it a solution to alleviate any problems. It's always a simple offer, but it's always a practically wrong solution to fight the price. However, I have a question about forecasts, although you have just said that this is not predictable or is not well-predicted. How do you comment on the picture shown to us by MKM's responsible official in the group with futures? CO2 should not be at all the centre of today's debate, that is what I referred to. But that these futures... Or were they energy prices? I'm sorry. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In a few months, they traded at 30 levels, now they're about 90. What do you think is the real hope that prices will fall so much further?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U91	Future CO2 prices and these futures are valued differently by all analysts. I just looked at the analysts' reports. A price of EUR 100 will certainly be expected by 2030. The pace he gets there, that's what life's gonna show. But as I said, price affects, I think, especially in the case of CO2, clearly climate ambition. If climate ambition is strong, it must be taken into account that the end result is, in fact, what is being achieved, so that renewable energy can be invested without subsidies. In fact, the price of CO2 is a direct incentive. Is that exactly the right price? Is it possible to use any mechanisms to perhaps reduce this price to some extent today? It is certainly possible to improve any system, but it is a market-based system. The impact on each market needs to be very well considered. In the European Union, it is probably possible to do so through cooperation between countries, goodwill and good cooperation. Then it is possible to get these prices down. But, yeah, that's what the projections are for today, 60 levels. [[A voice from the hall.]] In many ways, the market situation may also be affected by a simple market signal. For example, the fact that yes, we are seriously looking at how quickly we are taking away quotas in the future. If the European Union said so, it would most likely have an impact on the price. It is the important opinions of opinion leaders that influence the market if they are weighty. Or let us look at, for example, how much the gas price could affect Russia's operations. Some expect Russia to send a lot more gas to Europe; on the other hand, Russia is actually selling a record amount of gas this year and it is also producing a record amount. Not only has the European Union been asked whether they would sell their gas on the stock market, but also the Russian own stock regulator has told Gazprom to sell more gas on the Russian stock market. But maybe the Russians can't produce more gas, maybe that's the reason. There are many such moments that are not 100% market-controlled, and this information cannot be known 100% in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U92	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A really good presentation, thank you to me. You have already partially answered that, in answer to the first question, but I will ask you a little bit more about fixed prices. I fully share your view that the house always wins and rather has a fixed price mechanism for managing cash flows, or say, cost savings. What is the average margin of what is the price actually going to be more expensive for those who fix their price?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U94	Will they do it today, let's say, and have not done it before? I've calculated my electricity bill for an example. In the case of such a larger house, which also consumes electricity in winter and is not powered by electricity, an additional amount of EUR 40 to 60 could be paid into a monthly account in December, January and February. If we take the average consumer in Estonia, this is about 2.5 megawatt-hours a year. This figure could be added to the figure of €121⁄2.15 at present. If we take an electric heater, he could have an increase of EUR 100.150 per month, depending on the volume. Probably very much depends on how electricity is consumed. The impact on the electricity bill also depends on it. Of course, these aren't the last prices, so we'll know when winter comes. But these numbers are based on what we're looking at today's future prices, thinking about winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U95	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U96	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Uncertainty is indeed great. These plans and plans... By the way, if Europe is so-called energy independent, the price of the quota must be EUR 350 and 80% 250. But my question is: if, for example, you had the power to carry out this ETS reform, what would you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U97	As I showed on the slide, I think there are three areas to look at. In particular, it is how free quotas are allocated. Free quotas are issued by the European Union in the summer. Have all the installations across Europe caught them, is this whole offer actually on the market? Second, could Market Stability Reserve be used more flexibly? The third is certainly the same issue of speculative trading, whether it is possible to detect it in any way and, if possible, to limit it, given that, as of today, CO2 is a product in the long term whose price could only rise. If you're betting on the price increase, I'd like to buy some CO2 because you know it'll be more expensive in the future. These are the moments you could look at. However, it is also necessary to be very careful when dealing with such matters, because it is a market and it must take into account all the effects of how it actually affects the market. I think it really needs to be analysed more closely. I don't know the answers. It needs to be analysed more, in order to say that this is exactly the right change to make.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U98	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U99	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I would have asked the Minister in charge, too, but we ran out of time. As a good colleague, Mr Ossinovski, also raised this issue, perhaps the Minister himself can comment as a recliner in his closing remarks. I, too, would like to know when the third long-awaited connection to Finland will come and why this price will be so different and often cheaper in Finland. But my question to you is this. There has been much talk here today about security of supply and the need to increase renewable energy production capacity in Estonia. Very many small producers, both individual households and small businesses, did not receive completed solar power stations by 31 December to qualify for renewable energy subsidies, as large companies had installed 50 kilowatts and COVID had significantly disrupted the capacity of the installation companies. Do you think that support for the start-up of small and micro-generation of electricity produced from renewable sources or the extension of the deadline ending on 31 December could help small producers to build new production capacities and thus increase renewable energy capacity in Estonia? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U100	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U101	This would be a major cost relief for families, individual households and businesses and would help them bring down electricity prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U102	Of course, if you ask for an economic link, whether an extension of the duration or the duration of the grant will help. In that sense, the question answered itself. The most recent increase in production capacity in Estonia has taken place this summer via solar energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U103	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U104	Good manager! Dear waitress, Nowadays, the problem with vaccines is that you're gonna do two, but then you're gonna need a buster, first-teen-third. Start living like a technical passport to keep stamping in. But how are we now buying this Russian electricity via Finland? Do we have to deal with this buster all the time? What extent do you really think this is going to come to us and how dependent we can be, because it is now coming in quite forcefully via Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U105	Thank you. Let's just say that Finnish connections mean that Finland is, to some extent, dependent on Russian electricity, which does not mean that Estonia is dependent on Russian electricity in this respect. Today, however, Russian electricity comes to Estonia primarily through the Latvian border. In Nord Pool's trading area, all electricity from Russia is traded as at the Latvian border and mostly in the night hours. As I said, since November last year, the quantities from Russia were limited to around 40%, given that imports from Belarus account for 40% of the electricity coming from Russia or its connections are about 40%. On 15 September, Lithuania, for its part, restricted the so-called physical flows at the Lithuanian border, and this in fact reduced these quantities further. This, too, has affected the price of electricity. At night, even less electricity is coming from Russia. I'd say that proportion isn't that high anymore. It's always been reduced because it's limited. But in order to get a better price in the long term, we would rather need new connections with Finland. In the case of Russian electricity, it would probably have to take into account some kind of limit [tax] in the future, a so-called carbon tax which is not already used at all the borders of the European Union. This affects not only our borders, but also Finnish borders. Of course, if the European Union establishes something like this by the end of the day, it will also regulate the amount of electricity that could come to Finland from Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U106	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! I caught one of your slides. You said the price of electricity could not be reduced at the expense of the future. What do you say with this postulate to our hundreds of thousands of pensioners, older people, who do not have time to wait for a bright future that should come through the increasing production of renewable energy, which I honestly do not believe in? What are you gonna tell them? What do you say to 80-year-olds who don't have time to wait and who have to pay those higher rates than their little pension now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U108	My presentation is to the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu. I am trying to give you a picture of the electricity market, to give you the opportunity to make a good decision and then to communicate it already to pensioners and to all other people how the price of electricity can be influenced. I also mentioned those parts that you can directly influence and decide in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U109	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U110	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, too, for a very interesting and data-rich presentation. Indeed, these long-term options were also well drawn out: additional connections, faster development of renewable energy capacity. But since the reason for the price increase now is what is happening with gas in the background, I wonder if you can open up a little more geopolitics. You mentioned that there are historically low gas reserves, relatively rigid supplies from Norway and Russia. Is this rather a technical issue that affects the price of gas, or is geopolitics still behind it, some kind of influence gains and decreases? How is US gas so much cheaper than what we consume in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U111	Certainly, in a sense, political choices are part of the reasons why the price is high today. If you look at the European Union, the European Union has tried to ensure that gas purchases in Europe are based on European own indices, firstly, and no longer linked to oil prices. Today we are in a situation where they are based on our own European stock index, not on oil prices. Oil prices, as we know, have not risen so quickly. This is one of the reasons why there is a chance that these prices will move up faster, because the indices are moving up quickly. This has actually been the choice of the European Union. Secondly, the world market price has arisen for gas, gas as LNG is moving from one place to another, because of me from the United States to Europe or elsewhere, and LNG has not come up quickly enough. Demand has increased faster than supply. In particular, consumption in China has increased very rapidly. Asia is exactly what has brought this price up. Europe competes with Asia for gas supplies or LNG supplies. As long as this competition is in progress, there will be essentially an oversupply, who will pay a higher price. If Europe pays a very high price, unfortunately we see this price on our market, because it is reflected in these same indices once again. It is as if we have made some choices in Europe about how we want to buy gas, and in some way we can now get it for ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U112	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U113	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good performer! I understand that you, as a person from a company that deals in energy trading in the energy market and makes a living on that trade, naturally do not want to change today's system. There's nothing surprising about it or amazing about it. As a result, it is understandable that you are also not in favour of solutions relating to the rapid change of the CO system, and you think that the stock exchange system that we have, where prices are very different in one stock market, is actually fierce. But now your proposals to lower electricity prices. In essence, you have only one suggestion: to pray that there will be a windy winter. All other proposals relating to increasing interconnections, bringing storage technologies on the market and thinking about nuclear or hydrogen options, or also the faster launch of Nord Stream 2, are at best solutions that will come to us in five or ten years' time. Same question as Mart Hellel: what happens in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U114	First of all, I'm gonna answer the first half of the introduction. I'm an energy dealer. As an energy trader, I kind of don't care what the price is, whether he's up or down. I don't care if the CO2 trading system is one way or the other. We're adjusting, not shaping it. Regulators shape, legislators shape, we are in this market and we deal with it. That is why I am, in fact, impartial in this sense. Whatever this system is, we'll be fine because it's what we can do. What about sometimes? As I say, there are very few things that can be done for this winter. Indeed, there are few things. The only thing this picture reminds me of as an energy trader is that if all the charts go so steep and so high, they could fall down so suddenly and so high. We looked at Bloomberg's headlines. A year ago, they showed down prices, this year they show very high prices. We don't always know everything in advance. I don't know either. It's possible there's going to be something that's gonna bring down that price, besides everything else. We can already see, for example, in the case of gas consumption, that fertiliser producers, ammonium producers in the UK, Europe, even Lithuania's Achema, have significantly reduced production. They are the major gas consumers who significantly reduce gas consumption. Even if there was a cold winter, if they didn't produce, they would still reduce gas consumption. Perhaps this demand-side response is something that may be even more unexpected and greater than we can imagine today. Of course, as I said, there are a lot of market signals. The signals that the European Union is giving, even for my sake, about the price of CO2 or anything that could actually affect the market, are very important. Maybe you don't have to pull a lever directly, but I have to say we're thinking about it. If they say we're thinking about it, it's possible it's affecting the price.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U115	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Thank you, too, for your report. You mentioned that the rest of the world could take over the European CO2 quota trading system or apply something similar. What is the basis for this assumption, and where and when, in which part of the world could such a thing take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U117	I don't know, I didn't say that in my presentation, either. I did say that a Carbon Tax may be introduced at the border, which means that if the country does not have a corresponding CO2 approach similar to the European Union, their products will already be priced on the borders. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U118	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for this presentation. However, I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the slides you have shown us and which have been distributed to us. Both Mart and Martin Helme have reached the final and the final slide with the slides, and they have just asked you about this subject, but they have not reached the final slide. Maybe you'll tell them what it says, even though they've gone away, but at least it's the verbatim that's about electricity prices. There you have unequivocally said that the primary capacity of this hall through political decisions is to have a significant impact on electricity prices. You have proposed that higher revenues from the CO2 auction can be used to compensate for increases in electricity bill components or electricity prices, excise duty or VAT can be reduced. Let me get this straight. It is actually possible for this hall to change electricity prices tomorrow with political decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U120	Answer: Yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U121	There are no more questions, and the time for questions is running out nicely. Thank you for this presentation. Thanks for the questions. We are now moving forward with the opinions of the members of the Riigikogu, with speeches, or the round of negotiations. It's starting with Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, guests and waitresses! First of all, thank you very much to the [special] committee that raised this issue topically! The subject is indeed important. The cost of electricity, its production and security of supply are not only an economic issue or a question of consumer wallets, but also a question of security in general; it is an issue of economic competitiveness both for Europe as a whole and for the Member States; it is a question of people's livelihood, and then social affairs. So that's a complex question. If today's last waitress gave a very good presentation before me, which concerned, above all, let us say, all of this electricity prices and energy production, then we must look at this impact in a wider sense, also in a socio-economic way. These solutions, including on-going, urgent ones, must be both in the state budget and in government policy. As regards price increases and electricity prices, of course they are ultimately reflected in the final price of services and products and paid by the consumer. If we add the printed dollars and euros to this, then what will be the impact in a more complex way, if we also put aside energy policy and electricity prices, we will probably feel very painfully in the near future. But today we need a very in-depth analysis of climate policy, greening, the development of the energy economy. What are the long-term effects of these decisions? It seems that the current agreed climate policy in the European Union has not been thoroughly negotiated and does not really understand who it is with. If we look at the declarations and statements by the Heads of State that we will comply with the five-year plan in three years, it is, of course, unreasonable, it is not in line with real life and technological development, which would also make it possible to shape a sound and sustainable environmental policy. So these decisions should be realistic. Neither can we see the active activities of the Government of the Republic of Estonia in this direction. Various proposals have been made by the Isamaa Group; one draft has been initiated. In my opinion, Arvi Hamburg recently wrote very constructive proposals with a view to the future. But what has the Government of the Republic done? The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft to us or is about to submit a draft with the budget to raise excise duties on fuel and electricity in 2023. Raise excise duties on fuel and electricity in 2023! Of course, I would like to say that, in the current situation, we must not start looking for solutions to high prices either, so that we do not make the same mistake that we have made in setting the objectives of an unrealistic green turn. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U123	Yeah, you can. Three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U124	The same mistake must not be repeated by reverse action that we are going to make hasty, unthinking decisions in a crisis situation. They shall be considered, considered, science-based and consistent with actual opportunities. I will give some examples of such a wider impact. When Germany, in its own time, decided to close the nuclear power plants and this immediately happens, to stop coal-based electricity production, etc., which also happens at one point, it was natural that different solutions would be sought. One result is the same Nord Stream 2. But we know how Russia has affected Europe, Eastern Europe in particular, but also the rest of Europe in such a situation. To think that's not gonna happen in the future is very naive. So such decisions also have very large and far-reaching security policy implications. They must also be taken into account and taken into account when shaping energy policy and climate policy. And, of course, relations with third countries. If prices become too heavy, we will probably consume more and more cheap Chinese products. The fact that we are strengthening the customs union at the borders is not the solution. However, in view of today's mobile [solutions] and e-commerce, opportunities will be found, this pollution will still remain in third countries, and climate policy goals will not be achieved or production will be removed from Europe to third countries and produced there. Ultimately, we will not achieve the climate targets. Some examples of how we have done energy policy on the basis of enthusiasm in Europe's recent past. Remember, support for the energy market was introduced in the European Union; in Estonia too, there was a start to scrub fertile agricultural land. The fruity fields began to scrub, but this nonsense was terminated, but a decision was made on the basis of enthusiasm. Then we became actively producing biodiesel and bioethanol from cereals. It was found that it is not very reasonable to produce fuel at the expense of food. In Paldiski, the factory was finished, which immediately went bankrupt. The promotion of this policy was also discontinued. We know these beautiful statistical targets for the production of renewable energy, which led some European countries to realise them very successfully. But what was it at? This was at the expense of ships driving palm oil here from another continent, rainforests being cut down somewhere, etc. So you have to be very careful when making all these exciting decisions. Today, we have come to a situation where even oil shale and coal-based electricity are competitive and, by this, we are far from meeting these climate goals, but we have achieved the opposite of what we want. I am not sure that biogas production is very sustainable, if you think about it globally. Years ago, I traveled to the federal states of northern Germany to see why maize was grown on a massive scale. Not for green fodder, but for biomass, to produce biogas. Well, taking away fertile land and resources from food production, in the long run, also considering global food supply problems in the world, may not be the most sensible solution. So let's see what realistic options are. I call on the government to respond adequately and do something about it. There is nothing in the budget and legislative package for next year to solve this issue and problem. The Prime Minister replied here in Question Time that, well, we'll wait and see, we don't know how long this price will stay high. Indeed, I do not know, perhaps a miracle really happens and there is a rapid fall in price. But it would be just as wrong to rely on it as it was during the corona crisis to hope that the level of infection will go down quickly, let's not do anything about it, let's just look around. I don't think it's the right policy or the right tactic. So I want the government to be able to make adequate decisions. Let's get our feet out of the belly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U125	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go any further, let's look at the clock. It's 12:41. The Special Committee on State Budget Control has also asked us to discuss the possibility of extending the sitting until 14:00. Now we should vote through it. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Special Committee on State Budget Control has proposed that we extend today's sitting until the end of this item, but no longer than two o'clock. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U126	The proposal was supported by 24 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. We can get back to work. This is the story now, Mr Ligi, I understand that on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party there will be a speech by Kristen Michal. I'll place you... I'm still not giving you the floor. I'll put you in after Martin Helme, after the factions have made their calls. This was the request of the Special Committee on State Budget Control that the representatives of the political groups first speak. Please, Dmitri Dmitriev!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall and the transmission monitors! I would like to thank both the rapporteur for the special committee and the previous speaker for a very interesting and engaging debate. In my speech, I am still trying to stay focused on today's OTRK theme, which is the impact of the rise in the price of CO2 quota on the state budget and society. In particular, in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, the European Union has changed its greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system by reducing its emissions ceiling at an even faster pace than was planned at the time of its creation. From an environmental point of view, this seems to be the right step, but this means that fewer emission allowances available to companies will remain on the market, which will be even stronger in pressure on energy-intensive industries. This does not only affect electricity producers, it concerns some 11000 energy-intensive industrial plants and power plants in the European Union and the European Economic Area. In Estonia, oil shale power plants and the oil shale sector as a whole are most affected by this. A recent survey commissioned by the Institute of Social Studies reveals that Estonian consumers are very sensitive to rising electricity prices and 63% of people do not support meeting the European Union's climate targets if this means a multiple increase in electricity prices. The price of electricity that has risen to record levels this month has provoked criticism in society of Europe's climate goals, as the significant rise in prices is due to the high price of CO2 quotas. But not only. In a context of rapid economic growth, demand for electricity, which has greatly exceeded the supply on the European electricity market, also increased sharply. All of this suggests that an insufficient assessment of the effects of the measures developed could have undesirable consequences, such as the uncompetitive development of the Estonian oil shale sector by 2030 and the associated indirect negative consequences. However, the emissions trading scheme is not aimed at the extinction of the oil shale sector, but only at reducing greenhouse gas emissions to a certain limit, which has been largely achieved in the Estonian context. The price of the CO2 quota has proven to be unpredictably high and has exceeded all the price forecasts of the ETS regulator in this respect. The aim of the Estonian state is to move towards environmental and climate goals. At the same time, such a transition must be socially and economically balanced and ensure that the negative effects of the proposed measures do not exceed the required level of ambition. Therefore, Estonia needs clarity on what CO2 quota policy will help us to stand up for our national interests. As long as we do not have a clear understanding of how to manage the achievement of the CO2 quota policy objectives, uncertainty will continue in the economy, which, among other things, will prevent a cost-effective green turn and will not allow us to anticipate adverse impacts on our economies and consumers. In this context, we acknowledge the appeal of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure to the representatives of the European Commission with the proposal to review the bottlenecks in the current emissions trading system, which would help to prevent large price fluctuations in similar situations. The objective of the market stability reserve for the ETS is to address the structural imbalance between supply and demand, but the conditions for launching it are no longer in line with today's market conditions. We all know that decisions at European Union level take more time than we would like. We therefore also recognise the rapid reaction of the Government of the Republic and the decision not to increase excise duties planned in the state budget for next year, so that the increase does not have a negative impact on families' livelihoods. This is, of course, a short-term measure, and in the long term, neither the emissions trading system nor the electricity market balance will be resolved. However, at the moment, this is the fastest and most effective way to partially prevent a rapid increase in electricity prices and thus the price of goods and services for other people. I'm coming back to the oil shale sector. For example, the production of oil shale oil in Estonia allows for the creation of 8.2 billion euros of national wealth by 2040 with the enhancement of mineral resources of strategic importance, of which 2.6 billion euros would be received by the public sector as taxes, and from which local government revenues would increase by up to 360 million. At the same time, national wealth created from oil shale depends directly on how long it is possible to continue production. The current long-term development plans of the Estonian state see the production of oil shale oil as creative for Estonian society in the long term. It is particularly important that oil shale oil production is in line with the objectives of the basic strategy for climate policy. With the emissions trading system, the national financial obligation for oil shale oil production is to bear the cost of purchasing CO2 quotas. This cost will be the volume of CO2 quotas that need to be bought on the market and the price of the CO2 quota. In the event that such a financial obligation cannot be passed on to the consumer of the final product, it is not possible to continue economic activities once a certain cost limit has been reached and, if the production of oil shale in Ida-Viru County is closed due to the high price of the CO2 quota, it is already permanent. The earlier this is done, the smaller the national wealth created for Estonia through the oil shale oil industry. The Centre Party Group considers that, as we move towards meeting climate objectives, we need to give time for new technologies such as green hydrogen to be placed on the market, to ensure environmental protection, as well as an appropriate business climate and Estonia's competitiveness in the international arena. The fastest way to make industry environmentally friendly is to electrify, automate and digitise it, where the price of electricity will play an increasing role in the cost structure of companies. Our role, however, is to ensure that electricity is available in Estonia at any moment and in any weather, not only when the wind blows and the sun shines. The price of electricity must be affordable for the people of Estonia so that moving towards meeting the European Union's climate goals does not create excessive opposition in society and does not negatively affect the livelihood of Estonian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U128	Jevgeni Ossinovski, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U129	Thank you. I'd like three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U130	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U131	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, A little bit tends to forget which frame we operate in, and which is why we've gotten to where we've come from. The fact that CO2 prices have increased is not a system error, it has been the purpose of this system. In other words, all those who say they support the fight against climate change will support the fact that we should actually forcefully reduce greenhouse gases in different areas. At the same time, it cannot become populistly saddened when, in fact, the mechanisms of which Estonia, one of the negotiators, was, by the way, the same ETS Directive in 2018 begin to exert its desired effect, which means that prices will rise. The climate crisis threatens the country and people of Estonia most than the risks known in the long term. It is our joint responsibility to take these steps with our friends from Europe, but indeed globally, in order to prevent worse consequences. In order to achieve this, as confirmed by the world's scientific consensus, greenhouse gas emissions must be drastically and rapidly reduced. We have to do this, we just don't have another option. I did a survey, which showed some surprise, given the public rhetoric, that the vast majority of Estonian people feel the same way that climate change is a serious concern, a serious problem, and believes that Estonia is not doing enough to alleviate it. We should do more, not less. There are undoubtedly certain short-term and certain long-term shortcomings in this system itself. The long-term shortage is due to insufficient political decision-making. Well, we are not the only country that has been talking for ten years about the need to develop renewable energy, but in fact, the production of fossil fuels has been subsidised. This is what has been happening in Estonia over the last ten years. We have built a new oil shale power plant, and we will build a new oil shale oil station in 2021, when the world's top scientists warn us that a semi-degree increase in average temperature is already inevitable In 2021! This is where we have invested our money. Then why are we surprised when electricity prices are high? Where we've put the money, we've gotten back. But we haven't invested in cheap power generation. However, this has also happened in many other countries. There too, although renewable energy capacity has increased significantly, this pace has certainly not been enough to keep up with the times. Now, in the end, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has also started to move in this direction. Since 2018 the framework for less bids has been on the table: nothing has been done, no less offers have come to wind farms. The plan of the sea area is being offended for several years, and it is not continuing. All the time, by the beginning of each parliamentary season, it is said to come in three months. Now again, I think there was a promise that it would come at the beginning of the new year. Well, let's see. In fact, the time has been wasted, the time has been lost. Unfortunately, not only in Estonia. As has already been said, there are few who understand how the single European electricity market works. The rumors that we can influence the price of the electricity exchange are unfortunately incompetent. We really need a joint effort across Europe in this context. But this, of course, does not mean that nothing can be done, what we have heard here as a solution by the government. But the problem is not that the price of CO2 is high and is still rising and rising, but the problem is that we have not had enough thinking and political will to offer real solutions in this situation. The additional state budget revenue will be EUR 300 million. It's not like that CO2 money is some kind of mutiauk, that we're paying, and somewhere underground, it's pouring away. It's coming to our state budget. Quotas are sold and earned by Member States. Our state budget earns EUR 200 million on higher quota prices. And our question is, our choice is, our country's choice is what we do for this money. 100 million euros of additional VAT due to the high price of electricity, our choice is what we do with this money. The current government has decided to reduce the budget deficit at an early pace of EUR 400 million. That's the choice. We collect 300 million euros from consumers, businesses and domestic consumers and reduce deficits for this, send money to the European Bank, some of them. An alternative that I think would be very right and sensible in this situation: as a fundamental choice of value, to say that all the money that the state will make in the coming years from higher electricity and quota prices, we will, in one way or another, redirect back to the consumer in order to provide relief. All that money. We are not patching up other budget gaps, we are not reducing the deficit for this money at the expense of unfortunate electricity consumers, but we are actually redirecting it back in order to provide relief. This is, of course, needed socially... [[A voice from the hall.]] Mr. Reinsalu, you'll be able to come in here later. Of course, it is necessary for companies to be able to compete with the economy, but it is actually needed in the longer term to keep people and society in support of the green turn, because these places and decisions will come in the next 10 and 20 years, and there will be a great deal more. People need to see that at these moments of transition, when prices are increasing in one segment or another, they will be helped. Not to say, well, why don't you go buy yourself a house? This certainly is not an adequate solution. What can really be done? We've had the solution package on the table. Unfortunately, the government has decided to ignore it. Losing the renewable energy charge for next year, paying EUR 100 million out of the quota money, is not a problem, a very right and logical thing to do. If necessary, do the next year, the money will be there. Naturally, to withdraw drafts 156 and 344 which raise the renewable energy fee of 40% at least, perhaps even more, depending on the decisions taken by the government. It is immoral at this point in time to increase the remuneration for renewable energy. I can't believe it! In addition, the fewer offers that come to new parks, which have been discussed today, should be financed from the CO2 quota in order to provide long-term assurance that renewable energy will not increase in the implementation of new projects. These solutions are there to actually spend more money to really offer people this relief. This is the place of political choice. But populistly pointing your finger at Brussels is neither correct in substance nor certainly fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U132	Now Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers, I'm gonna ask for extra time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U134	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U135	Pleasure. First of all, the need for this debate. I congratulate the Commission on the fact that this debate has been taken up, because this debate is certainly needed, and this debate is even more needed than this one time in this Chamber. So the subject is important. Are Prices Important? Sure. Is there anything politically possible to change why there is a political debate here? I think that even some things can, certainly can be changed in attitudes, certainly can be changed at a pace. First, though, let's look at the facts. Urmas Reinsalu said that the price of CO2 is the root cause of the problem. I think the one who could track the expert's story already got the answer, that's all. The price of CO2 has, of course, increased faster than expected. In theory, you might even ask whether this system is somewhat out of balance. There are reserves where units were collected so that carbon would get the price. Maybe as a simple example, if you go into the shower and turn the button all the way to the end so that hot water finally comes, then suddenly hot water comes. That's about the kind of thing that's happened to this regulation. In terms of balance, carbon should have a price, generate renewable capacity and maintain clean air and nature and go hand in hand, not one without the other. Once the system is in place, the administrators, perhaps the Minister for Energy and environmental responsibility here, will have to look at this pace. The positive thing is, this debate has begun. To the credit of our Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, I think he was the first in Europe to raise this issue and the question in this way. I don't think it's first in history, but at least first in current ministers. It was about the system balance. But CO2 is just a piece of it. This is also the case with Urmas Reinsalu's efforts: those looking for a world model in any detail are very often misguided. The reasons for the price increase were listed here. One is the rise in the price of fossil fuels, the price of gas has increased five times as compared to last year. That's what the expert said. Part of this includes faster economic recovery in the world, partly probably Kremlin games in the gas market for the benefit of Nord Stream 2 etc., so that gas dependence grows. Taavi Aas also mentioned what was already known by experts before this debate, that the year has been relatively hot, that hydrostations have been rainy, windless, that gas reserves are low, etc. I'm not gonna go over everything. So what can we really do? Firstly, I would say that the balance of the same system certainly needs some supervision or oversight. The CO2 price system and the whole ETS system, together with its reserves, are a topic to be discussed at European Union level and we have a seat at this table. We have people sitting at that table, and they can have this debate. Secondly, I agree with Mr Ossinovski here even for a change, that the popularity of the whole of this so-called cleaner nature, green turn or environmental conservation and the future must not be limited to the square kilometre of Stockmann. This means that the pace of all this activity must, however, be tolerable and predictable in terms of price increases. Thirdly, the increase in renewable capacity is certainly part of the solution in addition to the need. This must be complemented by opportunities for managing consumption and saving energy. This has been the case so far, and here too, in the round of questions, it was the same question that a fixed-price contract would provide certainty. Many homeowners and many entrepreneurs actually use this fortress. Let's just say that using the stock market price, all intelligent people have to admit that if you get a low price, you'll get another half of the stock market, that's the higher price. It's no different in any market. But this whole picture should be looked at in a larger way, because next year there will be a report on the nuclear power plant, on the use of nuclear potential. This debate must also be held on the basis of knowledge. Nuclear issues have been discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, probably discussed elsewhere. We look forward to this report. Fourthly, what Urmas Reinsalu insisted on in his political slogan: who need support. I would say that those who need help to cope need it now, not when a politician decides to tie one line of budget to another, not by the grace of a politician. Those who plan their business or wherever else and can do it today must know that the transition to cleaner energy is feasible and the costs must be predictable at least as far as administrative decisions are concerned. Radical people will no doubt say that this reasonable pace of going was over a long time ago. But I think we need to remember the old wisdom that alone can go quickly, but if you want to go far, you have to go together. Fifthly, the analysis that Urmas Reinsalu emphasised in his presentation. At least when I looked at his presentation, it seemed that this was the main message of the [different] committee of state budget control. I think this analysis should be continuous and come from people in the field. It happened, however, that the chairman of the committee came here to tell us that there was a problem, that information was needed, and then somehow he stumbled during the performance and lost the paper he had taken with him and began to make some political slogans. That was really weird. I think the issue is so serious that it can be avoided. I will mention just a few issues that are certainly substantive: price, security of supply, exports and imports, storage capacity, conservation. All these are serious questions. Instead, they come to the remote and look for answers to the problems of the election campaign, not the problems of energy. Summary. I think Jürgen Ligi said here that it was important that these performances and its substantive discussion should have started in a different order, could have started with an expert, and many of the answers would have been received before we had stumbled behind these political slogans. The other important thing is said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U136	Now on behalf of the EKRE Group, Henn Põllamaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U137	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U138	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U139	The price of increased electricity and, as a result, all other prices will lead our people and the country to the brink of disaster in a literal sense. For example, in Finland and Sweden, where the standard of living is several times higher than us, electricity is several times cheaper. What's the matter? The unprecedented high prices are the result of the green turn of the European Union and the increase in the [price] of CO2 quotas imposed on Member States. The cost of CO2 was estimated at EUR 23 this year. Actually, it's 60. For 2030, EUR 91 was forecast, and in view of today's trend, it will be at least EUR 300 or more. What is happening is more accurate to call greenness. All the more so as the recently published UN climate report is being used to hunt up climate hysteria. Behind hysteria are children and gullibles. This hysteria has also been accompanied by the European Union and our government, who have lost the Estonian common sense. However, much of what the UN climate report tells us is wrong. Lies spread easily because many have hardly read this 3,000-page report. Only the worst scenarios that the report itself considers unlikely or impossible are described to the public. Their entry into force would mean a five-fold increase in CO2 emissions. This would require the replacement of electric and hybrid vehicles, petrol and diesel vehicles and trains with coal-powered steam cars and trains. It would also require the dismantling of nuclear power plants, wind and solar parks, the ban on natural gas, the replacement of all energy production by coal plants and their massive addition. We should also have Midsummer Day every day and just burn old tires, otherwise we wouldn't have the consequences of being intimidated. In short, climate hysteria, which has begun to close down and destroy the use of fossil and carbon-rich energy carriers, is largely based on fiction. Three scenarios in the climate report can be considered: the first, which will lead to carbon neutrality by 2050, the second [by which it arrives] in 2075, and the third, where CO2 emissions will continue to increase, then decrease and reach neutrality at the beginning of the next century. Climate activists feel that the first scenario is still too slow. The government plans to abandon oil shale power plants, the oil shale industry and oil shale mining by 2035 already. It's just crazy. What is the impact of these scenarios on the climate? The United Nations report shows that there is no difference in substance as to whether the climate is warming at one degree or two degrees. Does it matter if it rains in Tallinn every six or five years or if there is one super hot summer every 25 years or if there are two? People and nature adapt. The temperature has always been colder or hotter and the possibilities to influence it are minimal. The concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere was not affected by the fact that COVID-19 stopped air and ship traffic almost all over the planet, as well as other transport. There was no change. It is insane to ban existing energy carriers and technologies. All the more so, there are no new technologies in reality yet. New technologies make prices even higher. In Estonia, however, Europe already has the highest electricity prices. This is not the result of a normal market mechanism, but the result of political decisions taken in the name of a green turn. The government has refused to take any measures that would alleviate the situation and has not agreed to abandon, postpone or postpone its Green Plans. EKRE made six proposals to prevent people and businesses from falling into poverty in Estonia. I'm not gonna go over it in the middle of a lack of time. None of the proposals will be listened to by the government, except that the increase in electricity and fuel excise duties is likely to be postponed. There is no interest or willingness to normalise the situation. Instead, our economic and human climate package is speeding up. However, there is no impact analysis of the consequences. The Prime Minister even claimed that Estonian households are wealthy and that the effect of price increases is small for them, but the poorest ask for social support. This is a cynical, humiliating and lying suggestion, because those who remain a little over four euros a day after the public utility costs have been paid will not receive any support. There are 300,000 people living in relative poverty and absolute poverty in Estonia. Should nearly a quarter of the Estonian people be shrouded in cold, dark and hungry because of ignorance, recklessness and greenness? The rise in electricity prices is not only a human problem; it will hit our entire business sector. This year alone, EUR 250 million will be taken from our consumers' pockets. As the price of electricity in Estonia is one of the most expensive in Europe, in addition to the fact that our competitiveness in the world is falling, it will also fall in the European Union, where our main trading partners are located. The result is a wave of bankruptcies, rising unemployment and impoverishment. Europe's share of the world's CO2 emissions is only 6 to 7%, and Estonia's share is non-existent. If we were to shut down all of Europe's [electricity], we would all be sitting in the dark and cold, nothing would change at all. This would not change from the end of Estonia's CO2 emissions. However, we have the power to lower the price of electricity. We have to be honest to admit that climate policy as it stands has failed. If the sun does not shine and the wind does not blow, renewable energy production will be zero. Europe has shut down almost all coal plants. Germany will soon close its last nuclear power plant and will become fully dependent on Russian gas and the possible use of energy as a weapon. While President Trump showed a red light to Nord Stream 2 and the move from the European Kremlin to energy dependence, President Biden, like the European Commission, has lost sense of reality. Finally, what country could it be, who will benefit from, that Europe, including Estonia, suffers from electricity poverty, that all prices are rising, that the economy is competitive and living standards are falling, that there is no energy security, and that people are being taken to the limit of suffering. For whose sake is such a green turnout being pushed through with such power? In any case, it is not in the interests of Europe, of the people of Estonia or of anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U140	Now we have heard the speeches made by the political groups, we can move forward with the speeches made by other members of the Riigikogu. Please, Jürgen Ligi! Please, Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U141	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Marko Allikson, fortunately, turned this debate off his head, but the previous speaker, of course, just lit it on fire. Coming here with a remote control and reading some finished texts, this is not the level of the Riigikogu, especially if it does not relate in any way to the debate here, not to its mind, not to its content, does not contain any knowledge, but it is a world record in the past. Now, where we started the debate, and what this title is, is putting one component of one commodity in the middle of the debate. In itself, trade in CO2 is not worth such treatment. It's not like the system's gone wrong. No, he's market-based, he's logical, he's one of the things that reflects the movement of humanity, if not out of congestion, then slower towards the end. Trade in CO2 must certainly not be underestimated. I'm very pathetic, indeed, as Kristen Michal here said gratefully, it was some sort of "Home expenses down!" the reincarnation of the slogan, not the analysis of the dignified Riigikogu commission, which replied here. A very tough patho, indeed, very personal, but it was not the historical view of the Fatherland that we must take into account and adapt to the traditions of society and nature, not to deal with prices, but to cope with circumstances and incomes. But this has unfortunately been the case for ten years. Nothing personal. The content of this debate should have been linked to the general energy policy. Marko Allikson gave a very good analysis. Energy policy and the green turn should have been a little longer. But yes, as a starting point, the analysis of what the price depends on, how it develops, what the way out is, was most grateful. There were a few details that could be criticised, for example, as if the state had to control the price through a tax or could do so. No, it's a dead end. If we discuss any countersteps, they must not be more compensation for a larger consumer, that the more you consume, the more you will get some VAT or whatever you will get back. So this compensation policy is a dead end. On the supply side, however, action is essential and also social policy in this matter. The supply side is still that we need to have better alternative capacity guarantees than has been the case so far. We have to have storage capabilities. Those are unfortunately very long zip things. We have to have transfers. The story that we pull the wire out and produce only for ourselves is the most ridiculous Soviet rhetoric and ideology that the party on the door is spreading. Of course, the best energy is saved energy. All these methods should have been the focus of today's debate. CO2 trade also directs us towards such thinking. Was the price of CO2 in any way unpredictable? No, absolutely not. In the long term, this is highly predictable, and indeed short-term vibrations are also predictable. As if he were unpredictable, he sounded in one of the presentations, I think it was the Minister's report. But otherwise, the minister helped to improve this focus, most of the time. Then the claim that politicians are making laws and there is a way out. No, politicians don't make these laws. These are the laws of nature that are pushing us right now. And our overexploitation, humanity... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U142	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U143	Thank you. ... the action of humanity, which forces us to make political decisions. Unfortunately, politicians have been dragging along when they need to. These difficult decisions have only come to us now. I am not criticising, in that sense it is a paradox that when people are not ready, politicians cannot be too far ahead. But right now, we have to be road signs, not complaining here and reclaiming the Soviet Union, so let's take the gift of mercy from nature and not fear a damn thing. Or was it that capitalist? Then all these nice things, the price compensations, and the fact that we're taking less money from people, it's still the policy that the fridge does, but there's got to be floor heating, we're still heating, all right, both things, right? Opposite action. No, that can't be. If we compensate, we must take the consumption basket and the overall economic environment as a whole, not focus on compensating one price. You can't do that. If this pain gets too big, then you have to prove numerically that it's too big compared to income. But, in general, there is not yet any prevailing cost of disaster, nor will it happen in the near future, because, however, in the family box and also in the profit and loss account or in the statement of expenditure, this part is not so large that we should operate the hyperbola here. However, we must operate with needs, redesign ourselves, our consumption, our production and, to that end, move money, not give it up. We're taking less money from people, that's bullshit. If we start losing some sort of mark-up, we will take less from those who have a lot of money to consume. This is another deadlock in terms of all social policy. The weak, the weaker, the more vulnerable must be helped, but it must be an integrated help, not a one-price-focused one. The same is true of support from companies. It's still like a backwards idea. After all, companies are the ones who have the biggest business sector in the world. These green changes are a huge opportunity, not just a threat. Yes, some will fade if they do not change, but Estonia's great national interest is actually to take advantage of the niche that is contained in the shelves and energy prices in any case. We have done very well with them with our flexibility. Let's go. Our national interest is certainly not to hold on to oil shale energy by force. He has already withdrawn spontaneously, there has already been a number of declines in employment. The disaster isn't that big anymore. We need to look for these ways of transforming ourselves, and we need to offer them internationally, both in a reputational and material way. Yes, let us leave these taxes alone, these components of renewable energy, we are dealing with real social problems, we are dealing with real structural changes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U144	Martin Helme, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U145	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker spoke here about the spirit and attitude. In this key, today's debate is extremely useful, because the spirit and attitude came out very clearly. My colleague Ossinovski, Kristen Michal and Jürgen Ligi confirmed what is not a secret to anyone who has ever wanted to know: electricity must go crazy. People must change their way of life radically, and if they do not agree to change it themselves, the government will change it for them. No need for light in the room, no need for warm room, no need for travel, no need for pork to eat. If you don't understand it yourself, you're gonna have to go bankrupt. Honestly, they're gonna say it. I would advise voters to consider whether they really want to support such people in the elections. This was a useful discussion, of course, of other aspects. Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Aas, who, on the one hand, tried to talk as vaguely as possible about how he still worried about people and electricity bills, said a number of very clear positions. The first thing I had in my ear was that we have enough time to make energy policy decisions. I would argue against this: we do not have any time to make energy policy decisions because people's electricity bills are already intolerablely large and companies are already going bankrupt with those bills that they cannot pay. People are going to be unemployed next month because their jobs are going down because of expensive electricity. Taavi Aas assured us that we would not stop producing oil shale electricity. Unfortunately, today's coalition agreement claims exactly the opposite: we are just finishing, both electricity generation and oil production, ending our energy independence, ending self-sufficiency and normal electricity prices. It's a policy written on the paper of today's government. If we look at where we are going, we will see that this policy is being pursued. Mr Aas also mentioned that this year has shown that we need managed capacity. Well, again, I dare complain a little bit, because this discovery can't be from this year. The discovery that we need controlled production capacities has long been known to anyone who has ever been in contact with energy generation or electricity consumption. That the wind and the sun are not reliable means of production, we have known for a long time. The fact that the planned wind and solar parks will not be completed until the middle of the decade or perhaps at the beginning of the next decade is also known, even though the answer to this question was, of course, sneaked aside by Taavi Aas. That planned parks, including a giant park in the Gulf of Riga, will not replace their capacity, even when they are finally ready in ten years' time, with today's production capacity, which is intended to be closed tomorrow, we know. So the questions you have left in the air are pretty serious. The question of what to do with CO2 trade was left unanswered. My position and that of our party is very clear: as long as there is no sensible solution, we must leave the CO2 trading system without delay. Leave immediately. It is a government decision, it is a political decision, there is no point in talking about any market mechanism here. There was no answer to the question of how much new renewable energy will come into the market, when it will come into the market, what capacity will come into the market. This will not help us solve any problems in the energy crisis tomorrow. There was no answer to the question of what happens to people and those companies that, in the meantime, cannot pay their energy bills. I have heard absurd suggestions that people take on a fixed package. Are you kidding me? Sellers of fixed packages are currently going bankrupt across Europe because they are committed to selling electricity at a price that they can no longer afford on the market. If they continue to sell electricity at this price to the consumer, they should pay for it, which they will of course not do. Of course, as we have seen, the prices of fixed packages are now rising in a row. It is completely absurd to propose taking money from the sale of CO2 and thereby compensating people for the price of electricity. I'm sorry, but it's just socialism: first take money from all people and then put something back on the chosen ones. First of all, it's a redistribution; second, it's a wrong magnitude. The revenues from the sale of CO2 do not under any circumstances cover this cost, which we have also seen here on the charts, which the current price of electricity generates for both consumers and businesses, is wrong by size. Not to mention that the mechanism itself is wrong, which means that the mechanism for renewable energy must actually be stopped immediately. End immediately. The story of how we have to pray that there will be more rain and snow in Norway, because that is the solution to our electricity crisis, is also a stranger to life. We all know that from Norway the cables go to England, from Denmark the cables go to Germany. There's more demand, and that's where it's gonna be sold. It's not gonna get us. The biggest question: what are big consumers doing to close the store? Here it was the so-called expert's story that we are already seeing the market react, big consumers closing doors. But it's an economic disaster, if we stop the industry, it's an economic disaster. To sum it up. Firstly, we stick to our position, which, unfortunately, in today's debate, we got to know this: no one supports it. We stick to our position that we must leave the CO2 system immediately or that it must be stopped until we have a solution. We are talking about seeking a solution and we are thinking and discussing it, not helping hundreds of thousands of Estonian people and businesses. The renewables system must be stopped immediately, it is a racket. It doesn't motivate anything or anyone, it's just taking money from all people and giving some people 100 million to make rich, in fact, in a larger amount. In the Nordic market, which is not a single market, we are not in fact in any single market zone, because there are other prices in the North, we must come out. The Estonian electricity exchange can only function within Estonia itself. And, of course, there was a talk here that politicians had to give a very clear signal: oil shale electricity is the solution for Estonia until the nuclear power plant starts to shine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U146	Okay. The Rules of Procedure provide an opportunity for an immediate address when a person's position or name is mentioned. I understand that this is the wish that Mr Ossinovski and Mr Ligil have had. Please, up to two minutes on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Helme was dynamic, as usual, but some things go wrong when you talk loudly. No, I have not said, and I certainly do not think that the price of electricity should be high and become even higher. I was talking about the price of CO2. The objective of this system is that higher CO2 prices will motivate both electricity producers and countries to invest in making electricity cheaper. The problem that we are facing today is that, as the necessary investments have not been made in time, we are in a situation where the price of electricity has risen very high precisely because we do not have enough renewable energy capacity in the market. Higher CO2 prices, which will certainly not only remain this way with the current pan-European consensus, but will most likely also increase in the coming years, will certainly encourage the transition to more renewable energy. What the state can and must do in the meantime: the state must help the consumer, both for businesses and for consumers, in order to soften this transition period. This is clearly necessary. Yes, it is true, the intellectually correct alternative is to say that we are going out of the European Union, that we do not want all that global climate science is calling at us, closing doors and windows. I don't think that's smart. Maybe for a second it'll make you feel so warm in your pants, but it's not smart. This is undoubtedly the place where political parties have different legitimate visions of how best to serve the Estonian state and the people. But the argument could be factual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U148	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U149	Thank you. Well, that cluster hack that was presented from this speaker's desk, slandered me personally. I have not said that the price of electricity must be high and that we must give up everything. No, I'm saying the electricity price increase was predictable, it's going to happen anyway. Such absurd solutions, such as the fixing of electricity prices and the construction of border fences for electricity provided by EKRE, are not only the Soviet Union, but also unsustainable. Moreover, it is extremely lame for us to want the nations to start acting like this, because the long-predicted consequence of the climate disaster is the loss of nationality, language and culture. People's migration is the most tangible thing that happens in a climate disaster, because regions beyond us are becoming increasingly uninhabitable and people are falling apart. We must be moral leaders. Of course, there were a lot of other glitches since, you know, they're gonna take that price and if we fix it now, they're not gonna be able to sell it. Well, again, why was this man the Minister of Finance? Electricity is sold in forward transactions and these transactions are still insured. It is not the case that commitments are taken that cannot be fulfilled. No, that's not the problem. The problem is that stability must be paid or may be paid, but the stock market price is cheaper. Market-based systems, including those of CO2, are less restrictive than the bans that actually threaten our lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U150	Let's move on with the negotiations. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U151	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This fall... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I hope there's some quiet in the back, too, Jurgen. This autumn has shown in many places that large and significant bubbles have burst. Do you remember what happened in Afghanistan? Everything's great, 20 years of training, wild trillions gone, falling apart like an empty bag. And, of course, raises questions for Afghanistan, too, when the great ally disappears and is not well informed. Question also for us: do we have a plan to restore the sovereignty of B State, so to speak, military sovereignty and independence? Now the same is true of energy sovereignty. It's the same big heave. I was happy to hear that the Minister for Economic Affairs does not want to use this word. I don't either. I've read thousands of pages of pink or green mist about what's supposed to come through this summer. So the other bubble has exploded, and this mole called CO2 quota is raging. While the European Commission, where our Kadri Simson happens to be the Commissioner for Energy, predicted a year ago that in 2030 the price of this molecule or its quota, the CO2 quota, would be EUR 52, then in six months it has already risen to 60, now 65. That means the ten-year plan has been completed in six months. Now I heard here today that we have to pray that in the Nordic countries, it would rain a lot in winter, that there would be water, that there would be cheap energy, that the wind would be at sea and on land, that the winds would blow. We must pray that the energy connection between Norway and the United Kingdom does not work as it should, and thanks to this, cheap energy will not flow to England. We must pray that there is another pipe between Finland and Estonia to get cheaper electricity in Finland. But all this is hopeless. After all, the goal is noble: to save the world. But making one continent climate-neutral is such an idiot. No one is building walls between continents. Our contribution to global CO2 and greenhouse gases is 7%. Try a pot in one corner with thicker soup to boil even every fool realizes that it is not possible. Maybe some fool can't. The goal is a noble but unexpected opening of a hole, the boundaries of that big black hole we don't know, we don't know how long it will last. Winter is ahead. No one can tell. But maybe that's what's gonna happen next year, etc., before huge wind parks, including the mainland, and solar parks start to rise into the Gulf of Livonia and elsewhere. But in this black hole, the boundaries of which we do not know, this mole, who has escaped from the cage, is raging, despite the fact that Brussels plans that this mole must have been much smaller. But now he's suddenly grown up and it's not known how big he's going to be. We have to do something right now. And what do we do? One thing is the electricity bill, which comes for each of us and for businesses. This is one thing, but the other is all these indirect costs: food, housing, transport... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Nice bell. As I understand it, a few more minutes are allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U152	Three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U153	Sure, sure, three, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U154	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U155	Thank you. And because of Jürgen's chatter, maybe half more. We don't know what it's gonna be like yet. But it's clear that this shock will come. How long will it last? The funny thing is, we don't know anything. I have read all kinds of energy development plans and other documents in recent days. It's funny to read. I can't quote them now. It would be interesting if there was more time. But above all, it is a question of sovereignty, an issue of energy sovereignty. There is oil shale on the other side of the Narva River, but there is no oil shale quota, there is no molek that adds to the price of electricity. On the other side of the Gulf of Finland are Finns and their energy is much cheaper than ours. But at the same time Russian electricity sneaks up on us at night, even though we say Russia is bad, etc. Such a Pharisee. Let us recall what Arvi Hamburg wrote a few days ago in Postimees: an unambiguous energy policy would be needed in the European Union. He said there's no such vision. What do we say when the former Minister of Energy said that a few days ago? The meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control on Monday was quite funny, total chaos, nobody could tell what to do. Today we have reached this great hall, the grand hall of the Riigikogu, but many colleagues have left, there is lunch or something else. But the situation is extremely serious. It is precisely that the objective may be noble, but the intermediate, these analyses, have not been correct, and we do not know what lies ahead of us, is the most frightening. It is a good thing that the Minister for Economic Affairs has developed activity and at least he is ashamed of using the word 'green turn'. I don't like it either. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U156	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U157	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I was thinking if I came here, maybe I could come over and mimic an Indian rain dance like that. [[Singing.]] This might be appropriate, because there has already been repeated talk here today about asking and praying for windy and wet winters and autumns and spring, so that Norwegian waterfalls would give electricity and wind would cause all the rotors to sleep and vibrate, so that earthworms would escape all over the world. The Indians also danced when they had a period of drought or some other natural problem. If we have fallen or risen, I cannot say, to such a level that we are counting on the highest level of aid in our energy supply, then we have really come very far, it is really better kept Estonia. This is really better kept in Estonia! But we can bring another historical parallel here. We all know that one of the most evil geniuses in the world has been a man named Adolf Hitler, whom I think the current government is copying in many ways. True, not directly to Adolf himself, but rather to Joseph Goebbels and Josef, I think Josef was a Mengelet through information operations on human experiments and propaganda carried out through his coercive vaccination. This is the same Hitler who launched his last great attack on the Ardennides West Front before Christmas 1944. And what was one of the most important components of this estimate? Weather report. The weather report said that there would be cloudy weather and the allies' air force, which by then had completely taken control of the sky, could not fly, so German columns of tanks could move forward without fear of air strikes. Indeed, at first the weather report was correct, the weather was high, the sobs, the blizzard, the rain, the cold, and the Germans progressed very quickly. They conquered significant territories, the aim being to conquer Antwerp, to prevent the allies from following and bringing new military materials and technical forces to this front. Well, apparently, there wasn't enough Indian war dancing. The weather became clear, the allies' air force showed up, the German tank columns were bombed, their actions were paralyzed, and the attack in Ardennes failed. We are in a slightly similar situation that we hope for the wind and hope for the water to ensure our energy security to keep our lights on and our bills on fire, which is very important and that is what I wanted to control. But we don't keep our accounts under control like that. At the same time, we have our own energy capabilities. We can produce electricity as much as we can use all our power generation capacity to keep it to ourselves. We can sell it. We can sell it to Latvians who are energetically entirely dependent on Russian gas. By the way, there are huge gas storage rooms in the caves of the Koiva River. This is where the gas imported from Russia is stored. They depend on the Väina River... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U158	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U159	... or Dyna or Daugava water resources and Riga hydroelectric power plant. We can sell to the Latvians. But we are not selling it because we are not producing it because we have the crazy idea that we have to cover our energy needs with renewable energy sources. Which isn't to say that it's insecure, which is that we don't have the ability to accumulate, which is because it's more expensive. It doesn't matter, just for a bright future. Now I'm getting to one of the most depressing points. This most frustrating point is that when I listened to the representatives of the political groups here, I did not name the names, because they are standing up on their tails and I listened to some of the previous speakers throughout this whole day, I remembered the Soviet era. More or less half of my previous life I lived in the Soviet period. I remembered how passionately it was said that the magnificent achievements of Soviet agriculture would provide the Soviet people with a covered, varied and healthy food table, which was that even the wiener, which was made up of God knows what components, could only be bought with Brezhnev's work. But the remote was sung to us about how enormously well we all live, how Soviet industry supplies people, Soviet agriculture, Soviet military forces, invincible Red Armys with enormous technical achievements and everything. I'm so familiar with all this. Then the board had climbed into the company, which smelled the wind and, opportunisticly, sang of the note. Now we have the same kind of company that smells the wind and opportunistically sings the note. And this is our political elite of the Republic of Estonia. I am truly ashamed of this political elite. They were children, and they don't remember the same type of people singing the same way from the note, but I remember it coming so familiar to me, and it's so disgusting. In fact, all of this is not true, it was not true, and it is still not true. It's a procession for the blind in the dark of the night. They think it's the dark night they can't see, the daylight, the sunlight, the heat. And the question, better-kept Estonia: how will the hundreds of thousands of people who are already reading pennies today before the next retirement day live in poor pay? By the way, the Saviors are coming to this castle tomorrow to demand a normal salary. What are you gonna tell them? You're not gonna tell them anything. Go to the local government with a beggar bag to receive income support. This is your message, which has been repeated here by the Prime Minister and several others. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U160	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U161	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Dear colleagues, who are in this hall or in your office, and, of course, the people who are watching us live, as well as everyone else who can watch it! We've been raising a lot of problems here and looking for reasons. But one thing is clear: the country's millstones are grinding slowly and we need solutions already today. We are talking about the price of electricity, we are talking about renewable energy and grid charges, but at the same time our consumption is increasing significantly and even faster than we may be able to use alternative energy sources for our own benefit. It would be good to say here: gentlemen, let us go to the mushroom. We know that man's body doesn't possess anything from the fungus, but the action itself is good, and the hope is actually great that many people get lost in that forest. This means that there will be new initiatives. I am not, say, the greatest fortune teller, but I think that in six or seven years' time, we will no longer be talking about a green turn in Europe, because it will come to the fore to many others that Europe's fault and participation is 9 to 7% of the world's CO2 crap and Estonia's own fault is 0.001% here. Well, this is not a place where we should make a huge effort to destroy our quality of life, reduce our production, simply to make our share of Estonia 0.001 instead of 0.005, and we could say that life in Estonia is no longer so good, but we have saved the world. Perhaps we should honestly tell our people that we are consuming little. In 1979, if I am not mistaken, there was a major crisis in the United States, and at that moment it was said that we were going poor. Each family had two cars, the distance between cities was 100 kilometres. Car makers were really upset about how now America's dream is to drive big cars. But people actually started using one in the family instead of two cars. The costs were optimised. I think that we, the people of Estonia, could actually look at our own electricity consumption. That's all we can do right now. Maybe you don't need this floor heating all the time, maybe you don't need all the home appliances we have from the Adams and that's always in standby mode. Maybe you don't have to light up your yard that much. In particular, however, you might think about the metropolitan lights that shine and give light to many and many. The latter turns out the fire ♪ this could be followed on a day-to-day basis. We could teach our people that life can't be a flower all the time. In 1992, Russia wanted to put us on our knees with its own gas. No, we didn't. We managed to re-orientate quickly. We can re-orient ourselves today. A handful of activity adds to the physique. What are electric mixers for when there's a hand and a throw? So we're going to find these solutions. Yeah, they're not gonna let us heat up with our logs right now. Well, then this isn't the log, so let's chop this tree up and say it's the logs. The logs don't go under it. Just as the pellet men are pushing the pellet out of the log, so can we. As long as we survive this winter. By then, it will become clear that we will not be able to screw up our own economy in order to meet these green goals. Car manufacturers will also come and say that we cannot offer these good electric cars, because the suburban junkyards in Paris are full of those new Teslas whose battery is simply over. We do not have good solutions today, we are just raising and wondering how to get out of this situation. Let us consume less. Let us really consume less. I don't want any more time, because Kalle wants a word. And what the hell, we'll do less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-28_U162	Well, now, the story is that, since there really are only two minutes left until the end of the session and a member of the Riigikogu has the right to give a speech for 5 + 3 minutes, I will consider the session closed. I know the Minister also wanted a word, but unfortunately, all of this does not fit into our sitting today. Thank you all for listening and watching. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow at 14:00.
