ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good hearing followers! We will begin the Monday session of the 6th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please! There's no call, so we're going to run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U2	71 members of the Riigikogu registered, missing 30. Dear colleagues, the agenda is to clarify and validate it. First of all, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting on the situation of the corona virus. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added to the agenda of today's sitting and added the political statement of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas as the first item on the agenda. Secondly, the Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to remove the fourth item on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, namely the second reading of draft law 386 on the approval of amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes initiated by the Government of the Republic. Together with these amendments, I will vote on the approval of the 6th working week agenda of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote the approval of the 6th working week agenda of the VI session, together with the preliminary amendments. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U3	With the result of 74 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions have been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U4	The first item is the political statement by Prime Minister Kallas on the situation of the corona virus. Now, dear colleagues, let me briefly introduce the procedure for processing this political statement. First of all, the Prime Minister's statement is up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask the Prime Minister an oral question. After the application has been submitted, negotiations may be opened, if they so wish, by the representatives of the political groups. I request Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U5	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The situation caused by the Corona virus in Estonia is once again exceptionally critical. Like probably all the people of Estonia, I hoped that we would not end up in this situation, and like most people of Estonia, I did everything to make sure that the worst would be over by now. But unfortunately, that is not the case. In the first wave of the Coron, practically the recommendations were enough to keep people apart. In the second wave, more was known about this virus and people were more courageous because most did not get sick or had no serious illness. As a result, more people with COVID ended up in hospitals, but during the extensive restrictions we were able to cope with this situation. Most felt more than ever how we all depended on each other as a society as a whole, but also in every collective, even when riding on a bus together or sitting at a dinner table. One person may be unsuspecting by chance, but also recklessly ruining the lives and health of dozens of people. But most people have avoided responsibility for dozens or even hundreds of people during this distressing pandemic. And I am infinitely grateful for that. The vaccines are now available to everyone, and the majority have contributed to protecting themselves and society. But now the third wave has changed, thanks to vaccination, who is the minority we have to protect. While the elderly needed the greatest protection in the first two waves, now, in the third wave, people who have not been vaccinated in particular need of protection. In May, the European Commission carried out a Eurobarometer survey on vaccination attitudes. And if its results are compared to the levels that the countries have reached by now with vaccination, it is surprising how this is correlated with what was predicted in the spring study. We have stayed exactly where people's attitudes could be predicted in May. The spring prophecy said we're going to stop at 58%, and that's the way it is right now. According to Behavioral Research, there are still no vaccinations against the vaccine and people who hesitate. Anti-vaccines are confident of their convictions, and no matter what anyone says or does, they do not change their views. But we can try to convince those who hesitate. According to the studies, the main concern of these people is the fear of vaccine side effects. Fear is too strong an emotion to just say, "Don't be afraid." We, in cooperation with behavioural scientists, proposed different solutions to overcome these fears. There are open hotlines, motivating interviews that try to reach the heart of people's fears. You can invite lecturers to talk about how vaccines work. It all takes a hell of a lot of time, and unfortunately, a lot of people get their hands on this disease faster than they finally get their own vaccination decision. There's a lot of myths spreading about vaccines and coronavirus. One of them is that vaccines do not really protect, because vaccinated people also get sick and die. True, the vaccine doesn't make anyone immortal. The more people we have vaccinated, the more people who die are among those who have been vaccinated. But vaccines help save lives. Compared to the data, we can see that unvaccinated people are 2.5 times more likely to go to hospital than unvaccinated people and that unvaccinated people over 60 years of age are three times more likely to die than the same old people who have been vaccinated. On the one hand, let those who do not want to defend themselves suffer and let us not work with them. I don't agree with that. People who have not been vaccinated are still our own Estonian people. And we, along with doctors and scientists, will do everything in our power to convince them of peaceful and evidence-based talk. We have a duty to treat all seriously ill people. And unfortunately, if you suffer from this disease, the hospital will be exposed to breathing equipment. Unvaccinated people infected with COVID are more contagious than vaccinated, suffer more seriously, are more likely to enter the hospital and stay longer in the hospital. In hospitals, we have mostly unvaccinated people. For example, 90% of people in COVID grade 3 intensive care are currently unvaccinated. COVID is an infectious disease and therefore such patients must be separated. If more and more COVID patients are coming to hospitals, then other specializations must be closed. The choices are very harsh. First, elective surgery, such as aching hips, joints, or cardiac surgery, will be delayed. These people cannot cure their own diseases and need treatment. COVID's patients, however, can protect themselves by vaccination so that they do not suffer from the disease so badly and enter hospitals. There are some politicians who have cruelly said that some people must die in defence of freedom. I don't agree with that. This is an exceptionally cynical disregard for people and the normalisation of the deaths of older people. People aren't immortal, but they shouldn't die from the painful death caused by the corona virus. And unfortunately, COVID also threatens the lives and health of other people. Some members of the Riigikogu say that there is plenty of room in hospitals and there is no need to worry about it. It's not a question of beds, you can bring more and more. It's about the people who work for the COVID Department. It should be borne in mind that two sets of medical staff are needed in the COVID department, as security equipment must be worn. It's hard work and medical personnel are no longer willing to work in the COVID departments. They cannot be forced, and so hospital drivers are under double pressure: on the one hand, workers who do not want to do this job anymore and, on the other hand, sick people who are coming on and on. Yeah, we in the government decided to raise COVID's bedside allowance to 75%, but even money doesn't motivate these people anymore. If any member of the Riigikogu says that there is no burden in hospitals, I can give you a tour of the COVID department and you can see for yourself what work these people have to do and how these sick people suffer from oxygen deficiency. The Estonian medical system now has a difficult time to overcome which they need support and work peace. There is a general consensus in the Riigikogu on defence issues, for example. None of us disputes that in order to preserve Estonia's independence, we need membership in NATO and defence investments. I very much ask that we find the same consensus in support of the medical system, so that none of us demonises, attacks or threatens the health protection of Estonian people by medical workers who put out the latter. Good luck, Estonian doctors and sisters! Without vaccination, we have about one third of people, but with symptomatic COVID, they make up about two thirds of the hospital population. Therefore, it is precisely the movement of unvaccinated people that needs to be limited so that they do not get sick and get hospitalised, otherwise the whole of society will suffer. The Constitution expressly states that no law is absolute. Fundamental rights may be restricted where necessary to protect others or to prevent the spread of an infectious disease. And that's exactly what it is right now. Since today, a number of new control measures aimed at reducing the burden on the hospital network have entered into force. As of today, only adults who have been vaccinated or have had a history can participate in the controlled activities. This change includes adult sport, training, youth work, recreational activities, education, further training and further training. People who have not been vaccinated or affected by the disease may not continue to take part in sports events, sports and motion events, go to public saunas, spas, swimming pools, water centres, swimming pools, conferences, theatres, concerts, movies, take part in entertainment services, museums, exhibitions or spend time in catering establishments on site. The access of unvaccinated people to controlled events and activities is restricted because they are at very high risk of infection, and after being infected, they spread the virus more than people who have immune protection. They are also at high risk of suffering from the disease more seriously and of being hospitalised. The obligation to wear masks is also stricter than today. People without mask may not be allowed in sales or service areas. The wearing of a protective mask is strongly recommended for both vaccinated and sick persons at controlled events. Wearing a protective mask, preferably wearing a medical mask, and wearing a mask can no longer be replaced by a scarf, collar or something like that. This is necessary because the delta strain is significantly more contagious than the strains of the virus at the beginning of the pandemic. These measures shall be valid until at least 10 January. What happens next? Will the control measures put in place be sufficient? If we follow these measures, I very much hope that they will be enough. We know that today, people who were infected before the restrictions were imposed will get to the hospital a week or two after they became ill. The government must therefore also be prepared for the next steps. However, I recall that there were also those on the brow of the spring wave who demanded extremely severe restrictions and emergency situations. Looking back, we did the right thing by sticking to relatively liberal restrictions. In order for the rules to work, they must be respected. Most people do. Yes, we have increased the number of patrols and checks, but it is in all our interests that schools and companies be free and people get the help they need and hospitals don't block up COVID with the sick. Our goal is to keep society as open as possible and help hospitals to help everyone, not just COVID patients. If your decision not to vaccinate is your final choice, please take special care and avoid any contact until the virus spread has returned to decline. Yes, we would like to be like the Nordic countries, where most of the restrictions have been lifted today. But their level of vaccination is very high, especially among older people, and so they can take these bold steps. It is the freedom fighters who, paradoxically, are preventing the whole society from moving towards total openness. Finally. Let us care for ourselves, let us care for our people and our neighbors, and let us help health professionals. COVID's serious illness and corona deaths are avoidable. Thank you to everyone who has already been vaccinated. Thank you to all those who abide by the restrictions! Thank you to all those who do this job!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U6	Thank you. You have questions too. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U7	Thank you. Prime Minister! The change in rhetoric you have today is certainly welcome, compared to the attitude you heard a few weeks ago, which certainly did not call for a sense of association, but rather a different attitude towards the people of Estonia, so why should the majority do something to protect the minority, and so on. The government has assured us by the Minister of Health and Labour that 700 people will not be hospitalized, that this will not happen this time. Just a few weeks ago, it was said that probably not even more than 500 will go. Today, Urmas Sule has told us that 700 will be full in any case, it is good to stay below 800. How, then, as a Riigikogu, as a public in combating the epidemic, should we trust the government if, in this situation, on such a critical issue, you have had the confidence that we will not get to where we are today, but we have arrived there? And what are the solutions to be discussed now, further measures to limit the epidemic?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U8	I haven't had that confidence. I've been hoping it wouldn't go that far, too. The fact that we're in this state with the hospitals still shows that our level of vaccination is very low. One third of our people are nearly 300,000 people who can all be hospitalized. And that's gonna bring a lot of pressure in the hospitals. Now the question is what can be done next. In fact, we need to look now at how the control measures that have come into force will work. Secondly, there is also a debate on the issue of young people. When we introduced the COVID evidence in August, since young people were later given the opportunity to be vaccinated, we remained talking about coming back to this debate in October. There is now a debate on what happens to young people, whether they should also ask young people for this proof, so that it is clear that they do not carry on this virus so much. We have a pretty high level of vaccination among young people. If we look at the 16 and 17-year-olds, it's about the same level as the 18 to 29-year-olds. Now, the question is, can we prevent all of us from locking up again? We're doing everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. And I believe that when people work together and realize that not everything has to be established by law. For example, the same counsel on wearing a mask that is now evidently getting tougher because wearing a mask helps prevent the spread of the virus. Various steps can still be taken, but when we spoke in the morning at our crisis meeting, the Health Board also thought that if these restrictions were to be observed, perhaps it would not reach that level so that it would turn everything off harder. There are two sides: one side is that some people have behaved responsibly, had themselves vaccinated. And we have people who are unvaccinated. If we impose restrictions on everyone at the end of the day, then the question arises as to why do I vaccinate myself if, in the end, everything goes down anyway. Therefore, at the moment, it is still reasonable for us to get things under control with less restrictive limits. If you don't get it, you have to keep looking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U9	A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U10	I'm sorry! That's what my machine asked me. Sorry, I didn't mean to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U11	Artificial intelligence, then. Indrek Saar, please! Indrek Island microphone, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! In your address, you told us about a consensus that would be so necessary in this health crisis. I agree very much with you. I sent you and the other chairmen of the parliamentary parties a letter on Friday, where I shared the same point and asked that we jointly try to make a political truce on this matter. We are inevitably moving towards disaster, as all predictions show. We know that the Nordic countries have consistently sought consensus between the various political forces and, apparently, thanks to this, the situation is much better there. Trust in the state is much greater because it is wanted to build this consensus. But building a consensus usually starts with those in power. What are you doing to get the political forces represented in Parliament together at one table, to speak honestly and to try to take responsibility together for how to resolve this crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U13	Thank you. Indeed, I have had conversations with the Nordic Prime Ministers who say that the opposition has been very supportive in resolving this crisis. This is not a political crisis, it is a health crisis. The health of the people of Estonia or Denmark or Finland is at stake here and therefore there is no time for political caption. In any case, I am always prepared to listen to all the proposals. And last week we made the various proposals on the table that the Riigikogu might discuss. Today, the Social Affairs Committee held a meeting on these issues. So these formats are different. But at the same time, I would point out that when it was a crisis in spring and we started in our government, I very much wanted to involve opposition parties. I sent everyone the same suggestions we had on our desk. I asked for your position, but since there was very little time, I also gave you the time we had. Some of the political groups replied, some said that they did not have enough data to answer, although they had exactly the same data as the government had on the table. Unfortunately, this crisis requires urgent action and decision-making, and how to do it faster and better communicate, I will certainly listen to your proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U14	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas! With the new restrictions, the rapid tests will be no longer valid until at least January, but we know that even vaccinated people can become infected themselves and be dangerous to others even if they have a valid COVID certificate in their hands. In my opinion, on the contrary, it would make sense to test everyone now if they wanted to go to events, gyms or dining places. My question: why has the government abandoned the use of rapid tests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U16	Thank you. First of all, rapid tests are not very reliable. Last week, I think there was an article in the Estonian Express where a doctor said that these rapid tests should be banned, they give false certainty. But coming to this limit, like I said before, taking a test doesn't protect people from the virus. If a person is unvaccinated, they'll take the test, it's negative, he'll go to an event where there are other people, maybe somebody who's vaccinated will carry on the virus. The problem isn't about vaccinated people, it's dangerous for him. Even though he's in there with a negative test, he might get sick. Therefore, the logic of the restrictions is based on the fact that at present the minority that needs to be protected is unvaccinated people. It is therefore necessary to limit their movements so that they do not get this disease and become seriously ill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U17	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! A week ago, the local election ended. And I think every person in Estonia saw that the parties were very active, they were at bus stops, they were on the street, they were on a TV screen, they were everywhere and they were very well seen. Now I am saying that throughout this crisis, all these years, the country has not made a tenth of the effort that political parties have made here in a few months to bring the vaccination message to the people. What's this about? Have all these communication activities been poorly funded? Can't the state order them? What's this about? And what does the government intend to do to improve this area? Because actually, let's be honest, vaccination-inviting communication has not been effective, has not been sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U19	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much to all the parties that have done this work and called on people. Indeed, it has been a great opportunity to communicate with people. Thank you so much for doing this! And when you start at Tallinn City Government, I very much expect the vaccination numbers to go up in Tallinn, especially Lasnamäe. I'm sure you have a lot of ideas on how to achieve this. But I guess that information's been on different levels. We've had very different stages of vaccination. The first phase was when we had a little vaccine and a lot of people who wanted it, so we focused on older people. Phase two was when we had enough of the vaccine and enough of the people who wanted it. Then we did more general campaigns to get down, shoulder down, etc. Now we have the third phase, where we have left people who hesitate and have remained anti-vaccine. Communication for them is quite different, it is much more focused and much more one to one. This is exactly what you may have done in the elections, talking to people who had doubts and fears. We've opened a hotline, we've found different lecturers who answer people's questions. Today, a two-week family doctor's vaccination start begins. Family nurses and family doctors call, talk, and answer people's questions. Medical students have come to help. We have a motivational interview to reach the heart of people's fears and reach the point that this disease should be more feared than the possible side effects of the vaccine. We also have materials on the myths that can be found on the Vaccinating.ee page, and the materials are also distributed to employers who can communicate with their employees on this subject. So these phases and communications have been very different. This general advertising campaign no longer works at this stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U20	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! You said earlier that we had a consensus on defence. I would like to say that we have a consensus on vaccination, because in the EKRE Group, too, most members have been vaccinated and we do not have any problems with vaccination. What's the problem? There's no consensus on the pressure of vaccination, here's the problem. There are a lot of people in my community who ask me how we dare to get vaccinated with a vaccine, where we are not sure, under the conditions of storage, whether it might happen that our children will receive vaccines that are no longer eligible. This one bad experience has left a very strong mark. And in all this media coverage, there's no talking about keeping vaccines and using vaccines at all. I would ask for your position on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U22	Thank you. This is a question that has arisen since the summer of this Health Board warehouse issue. There were no COVID vaccines currently being injected. They were all in private storage facilities and all the vaccines that were in this Health Board cold warehouse, even though the manufacturer said that they could still be used, were all written off by the Health Board just in case. So none of the vaccines that were there, which had a small suspicion that they had been misappropriated, were injected to anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U23	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U24	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! My question concerns the ability or opportunities of one of your ministers to continue their work. If nothing has changed in the meantime, the Minister of Culture is known to be still unvaccinated. I'm not going to quote here the letter from the show agencies to you, you've read it like we all have. It ends with the words: Theater people ask you to join your government as Minister of Culture. My question is how, in the light of such restrictions, if [the Minister of Culture] is unable to visit premieres, no premieres of films, no openings of exhibitions, he does his job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U25	Thank you. The Minister of Culture is on vacation this week, and we will definitely go on with these conversations when he returns from the holiday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U26	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U27	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Saturday, we knew we had a big talk meeting on the Liberty Square, a meeting. I followed it through the media, and all of this, of course, made me very uninquiring. And it was particularly bitter to think of how the medical staff working in the COVID department had to monitor all of this. But what really bothered me was when I heard from the media that some of the people gathered there reported that they wanted to be infected by the COVID, so that after it had passed through, it would be easier to reintegrate into society. What, Prime Minister, is your position and recommendation for those people who think that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U28	Thank you. Based on the advice of doctors and the knowledge of scientists about this disease, [I say] this disease can all be very serious. Long COVID has heavy consequences and this is certainly not a good solution. It's a little like Russian roulette: maybe it's going well, a lot of people have really had it a little bit, but a lot of people have had it hard and, unfortunately, a lot of people have lost their lives. So I advise you not to play this Russian roulette and still have the vaccine injected. It's a much easier way to protect yourself and others, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U29	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Prime Minister! When I talk to people about the need for vaccination, I often hear the answer: yes, but I will be vaccinated when Sputnik is present. Is there any hope that if Sputnik's certification is terminated, it will also appear in Estonia for vaccination? And one more thing, if you'll excuse me. Can the transition to distance education now take place simultaneously across Estonia or, as was the case, every school manager decides for himself? I'll explain why I'm asking. The longer the class is in distance training, the worse the result after it shows the exam. Children are simply in an unequal situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U31	Thank you. First about Sputnik. Currently, Estonia has not concluded agreements to purchase Sputnik's vaccine. We have contracts for the purchase of Jannsen, Valneva, Moderna, Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. Novax, too. Six vaccines, not all of which have yet been authorised by the European Medicines Agency. Any vaccine that is authorised by the European Medicines Agency may probably be used in Estonia, but Estonia has not purchased Sputnik at present. When you look at the results in countries that have used Sputnik, [we see that] it does not really provide much support, it does not offer much protection. My message to these people is that there's no point in waiting for Sputnik. It is reasonable to choose from the vaccines currently in use. Now the second question concerning the transition to distance learning. Today the school leaders made an appeal to please vaccinate your young people. And here is a good example of the Tartu Jaan Poska Gymnasium, where all teachers have been vaccinated and 90% of students have also been vaccinated. They have not had any lesions, they do not have children, and they have not had to stay away from school because of this. Perhaps, then, it is actually reasonable to make vaccinations in schools so that children can still be all in contact education. And I also say that it is not reasonable to impose restrictions on everyone evenly. For example, if the majority of Hiiumaa have been vaccinated, the disease does not spread much, why do these children have to stay at home? However, it may be more reasonable to base the level of vaccination on the spread of the disease in the region. And in any case, the government's goal is to keep the schools as open as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U32	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'm quoting public messages. In October, October 9, Professor of Mathematical Statistics Krista Fischer warned that in a month we would be in crisis. On 13 October, scientific advisor Mario Kadastik published a forecast that we are on our way to a crisis. On 20 October, the University of Tartu Hospital announced that scheduled treatment would be suspended. On 22 October, the Health Board informed that, from 25 October, only the provision of emergency and emergency assistance would be ensured in Estonia. But the day before yesterday, there was an anti-vaccinating demonstration in Tallinn, where there were also calls for the citizens' initiative to ignore the government's orders. Society is broken. What have we done wrong and are we in a crisis? And what is the responsibility of every member of the Riigikogu in the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U34	Thank you. It seems to me that what has gone wrong for the party that organized the demonstration is that they are no longer in government. When I look at the messages they broadcast when they were in the government, versus what they say in the opposition, it's like night and day. At the same time, it is said that restrictions must be observed, the police must check, and anyone who does not want to follow will know [the consequences]. But in opposition, it is said that people must refuse to obey, that they must refuse to apply restrictions. So the only thing I see is purely political technology: it is reasonable to incite anger, division and hatred. But I stress once again that this is a health crisis. It is not political; the life and health of all people, the functioning and openness of Estonian society are at stake here. So I once again call on everyone to be reasonable; the health of Estonian people must be protected. The attitude [on this issue] should be uniform, as we have even in defence matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U35	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Antibody tests [the result] are known not to be considered as separate evidence, although they may be based on venous blood and are based on reliable laboratory tests. However, in October, there was news that only one dose of vaccine is given to a person with evidence of corona antibodies. To be more precise, indeed, West Tallinn Central Hospital has accepted positive antibody tests for vaccination and vaccinated people in a single dose. Does this practice apply now? And is it accepted by other health institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U37	Thank you. The antibody test itself is not a test that is considered [in the same way as] whether you have suffered or not. It can't be used as evidence. But family doctors may take that into account, even though there are no such rules at the moment. I know some family doctors will take that into account. Now, with antibodies, as we have been told, it is very different in different people, which antibodies provide protection and which do not give protection. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have a plague and one dose of the vaccine will provide COVID's proof. At the same time, there are many countries where two doses of vaccine have to be obtained in addition to the breakthrough. So, in any case, if you make a different rule, it must be taken into account that it is perhaps not recognised elsewhere in Europe and that it can still be an obstacle to cross-border movement. So, yes, there are disputes between scientists as to whether or not antibodies can be taken into account in this way. But as long as scientists have not reached an agreement, that cannot be politically decided.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U38	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kaja Kallas! My question concerns the restrictions imposed in such a way that the negative test is virtually no longer going anywhere. But my question is motivated by an event. I was stopped by a second or third grade school turd and asked my uncle if you were from the Riigikogu. I told you I was. He asked me how they wanted to know how a positive corona test could show that a disease exists, but a negative corona test doesn't show that a person is healthy. They'd been discussing with the boys, and there's no way they could understand how that was possible. But since you often answer the question in a very different way here, when asked, do not answer the question, so that you also understand, I ask again: how is it possible that a positive test proves that the disease exists, but a negative test does not prove that the person is healthy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U40	Thank you. As I have said many times in response here, the aim of the restrictions is to protect those people who are not vaccinated at the moment. The test indicates that a person is healthy, but he doesn't give any protection in the sense that if a person goes in with others who can carry that virus, he might get sick. Since hospitals are particularly clogged by unvaccinated people, I would remind you that over 90% of COVID's third degree in intensive care are non-vaccinated people, these people must be protected by this restriction so that they do not move around. I haven't said anywhere that a negative test doesn't indicate that a person is healthy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U41	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U42	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! After watching these weekend events in Tallinn, it seems to me that Estonian society is completely divided. We're on both sides of the Coronary River, and it seems neither shore can understand the other shore. What, then, can we do to sew society up again? I think the situation is worse than the marriage referendum. And the difference is, today, the bodies are actually running down that river. Would it help if you invited all party leaders to seek cooperation with you so that it would stop playing with people's lives and heating theories that really have no basis? Would it help to involve more business organisations? Some sectors have earned huge profits that they would never have made without corona, such as IT and communication. At the same time, the tourism sector and culture are sinking more underwater every day. Paavo Nõgene has just announced that several tens of thousands of shipping tickets to Estonia have been cancelled. Would it help if these sectors were more involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U43	Thank you. First of all, it seems to me that there is quite a consensus between at least four parties in the Riigikogu that this is a health crisis, a very serious matter, a health issue that is not being played with. There is one party that I have repeatedly called for him to address his people, calling for the same vaccination and joint action in this crisis, but that is not what he wants. The desire to split must be there. Understandably, people have become frustrated during this crisis. Nobody likes the situation. We all want the rest of our lives back, we want normality, we don't want restrictions, we don't want that kind of anxiety. But that's what we get through when we act as the Nordic countries have done, vaccinate the elderly first and foremost, being protected, which allows us to be open as a society. Then our hospitals will survive and are not full of people who have not been vaccinated and are suffering from this disease seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U44	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I very much ask you to consider this issue of mine as my contribution to this consensus and joint action. But if you don't mind, I'm going to be a little critical first of all when you say that people have fears of vaccines and side effects. I'm afraid it's not enough to deal with this fear only through persuasion and public communication. It would be much more effective if we had proper side effects statistics and any vaccination decision could be made by a person in relation to his or her specific health. There is also very little talk about treatment. The specific question is: could you be interested in how India got off this extremely high peak they had during the summer? Maybe we have something to learn from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U46	Thank you. From India you can learn that people just died in very large numbers there. You can also find videos on the Internet of how people's bodies were piled up there. People just died. And I think this is not the solution for Estonia. There are 1.3 million people in Estonia. We can't take the view that every person isn't valuable and then let those who want just die and get rid of the virus. I certainly don't support that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U47	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question concerns the medical system and the people working there. A few weeks ago, Professor Peep Talving and I were talking about those people here fighting for our lives and our health. At the time, he assured me that they were tired, that the crisis had spent them. At present, it is likely impossible not to hear the prayers of health professionals, the cries for help, so that people stick to restrictions and vaccinate themselves. However, it is extremely unfortunate to listen to colleagues when they say that nothing has been done for the medical system and that these people are somehow kept from being fired. I am referring to health professionals. Would you please recall how the government has supported the medical system, hospitals, medical staff and how it plans to continue doing so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U49	Thank you. It is really true that the medical system is under a great deal of pressure. Hospital leaders say that people's motivation [is disappearing], frustration with COVID is very, very big. I have spoken to various doctors who say: "I have learned to be a traumatist, not a doctor of infectious diseases. I don't want to do this job, I want to do my job. And this job is always the same, routine, I want to do an interesting job. " Medical students say they're going to help the department do their residency, but they don't really get the experience needed to gain [medical knowledge] in all other areas. What have we done for ourselves? We have allocated more money to the medical system. Last week, we raised the COVID bedside fee by 75% to motivate people. We have reached an agreement, and in the state budget, there is an increase of 9% in the salaries of doctors and nurses, health workers at all, as well as care workers, if I remember correctly, even more for care workers to keep and motivate these people. On a positive note, the interest in the sister [of specialty] has increased; people want to learn it. So there's gonna be more people. But there's no way [now] of getting over this fatigue once and for all. It is still very, very difficult to force people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U50	Ivi Eenmaa, a procedural question, please! A microphone for Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U51	I'm so sorry, but it was an accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U52	Got it. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The Doctors' Association is today demanding far tougher penalties for those who fail to comply with the restrictions. More specifically, this request has been made by the Council of the Estonian Arstide Liidu. The medical department does not require the state to be locked down, but they say that mild admonition is too little. COVID's evidence and wearing a mask must be checked and the rules should be treated more harshly. Some things have come true since today. This appeal is, in my opinion, covered by a professional competence, but certainly also by a professional conscience. What do you think makes people who do not have a tooth of authority behave more rationally and ignore such dilettante positions? What would be a good solution? I understand a lot of things have been tried and tested, but what's the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U54	Thank you. Behavior scientists and I have consulted quite a bit about how to make society react [as desired]. Why is it that people in one society or one country are already acting on a recommendation, while the other needs severe restrictions and the police side by side? There are different opinions on this. There is also the concept of cultural maturity: society is or is not. We're where we are. When we talk about people who still hesitate to be vaccinated, the behaviorologists have also said that they need empathetic communication, they need to understand their fears and try to help them overcome them. And therefore, as I listed earlier, we have taken various steps in this direction. Now, as far as compliance with restrictions is concerned, unfortunately, some people listen only to force, and that is why we have increased the number of patrols. There are also penalties that can be imposed on the ground. This morning we had a meeting, tomorrow I will have a new review of how many procedures have been initiated and people punished. As of today, shops, shopping malls themselves control masks, don't let people in without them. Cooperation with the business sector in various areas is very important. No one wants to go to jail, it should be in their best interests. But I would urge: people, if you see that restrictions are not being observed, then maybe just a person has forgotten to put on a mask. Then you might well say I'm sorry, you forgot. Be nice, put on the mask. I think that many do not mind, for example, pointing this out in public transport. It's not always right to wait for the police to come and fine someone. Maybe many of them have just accidentally forgotten. Also, an examination of these COVID evidence. Since the media has caused a great deal of the feeling that the anti-vaccine or anti-COVID evidence demand is like a huge amount, some of the younger servicemen are afraid to ask for this evidence. If you go to places like this and they ask for proof, they can in any case be encouraged to thank you for checking, thank you for asking. And in the same way, if you don't check it out, you might get attention. In fact, it's in all our interests that we behave according to their rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U55	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I actually had a completely different question for you, but the current question is motivated by one of your answers. The Prime Minister must be precise when dealing with the facts. I'm asking you to answer. You said here, in answer to one question, that a party held a Vabaduse Square event a few days ago. Do you have any information that the Foundation for the Protection of Family and Tradition has registered in the meantime or made an application to register as a party? I checked the business records, it wasn't here right now. If that is the case, of course you are right, but if it is not, then we do not build bridges in society with this attitude. I saw a lot of members of different parties at this event. You should specify which party was the organiser of this event. But if you say that a really given foundation is enrolling as a party, I take it back. Is that right? Do you have any information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U57	Thank you. The leaders of one particular party were there, and very clearly they shared the sound of ideas, which were clearly legitimised. Can't say they didn't think it was right. And it cannot be said that the Varro Vooglais are connected to any other party as they are connected to your party. And the official information channel for this event was New News, which is known to be the official information channel for EKRE. So to build a distance between this event and your party is still very difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U58	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Indeed, if you thought about a week ago, if you had said in Estonia that we were taking all the restrictions off, what would have changed in the Estonian street picture or changed in people's behaviour? Probably not too much. It is sad that we actually have to go back to the phase of restrictions. Each Estonian family probably has a story with the COVID crisis. And unfortunately, all families also have some conviction that is very difficult to change. My question to you in this area is that this imposition of restrictions falls into such a conflict area, also in political terms. Politics are being made in this Chamber, and we have heard a great deal about this today. Does the government also have some kind of risk assessment of people's behaviour, precisely the kind of behaviour that may result in very many antidotes feeling that sanctions tend to attack their lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U60	Thank you for that question. Firstly, it is true that it is very difficult to change people's convictions in six months. As I pointed out, a Eurobarometer survey carried out in May, which took into account people's convictions, [in the forecast], that we are going to stay at around 58%. That is where we have stopped, and other countries have stayed. Portugal has done a little more, Germany a little less, but basically there they stand. But the problem is, we're having a health crisis. I understand people's frustration, but we have to look at the hospital situation. In hospitals, we have mostly unvaccinated people and we have to protect them with restrictions so they don't get into the hospital. Because, as I said, if they do, we're going to have to limit the planned treatment more and more, maybe emergency treatment if there's more of them. As a result, society as a whole suffers. So, yes, there are no good solutions here. I, too, would only like to make popular decisions, but I have failed to make any such decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U61	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U62	Good President and Prime Minister. It's gonna get a little one-sided, but let's get down to business. Yesterday's or, I'm sorry, the big German papers of the day said that the flu season that was about to begin or already started could mean more than 30 billion economic losses for the German state. The Americans have said this before. We don't talk much here. My question is whether you are preparing for the war that will soon end or for what is foretold. I mean, the coming of a very difficult flu season and the associated damage. By the way, if the corona breaks and kills men especially old and especially men, the flu will kill a much younger corridor. How much are you prepared for the flu season and the possible losses associated with it, which the Estonian state is likely to suffer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U63	Thank you for asking, because the flu really is a big concern. What have we done? First of all, this year the flu vaccine is free of charge for people over 60 years of age, and in previous years the vaccine has been subject to a fee for older people, as for everyone else. As of today, two weeks of vaccinations are underway, where all family doctors are only carrying out vaccination, including influenza vaccination. So I call on you, including your party, to vaccinate all parties against the flu. I've had the flu one year, and it was a very serious disease. I'm definitely gonna vaccinate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U64	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Well, we've all had the flu one year, there's no doubt about that. My question concerns vaccination. What's your plan A? You have nothing but plan A, you have only plan A. You have mentioned that people have doubts and fears and doubts about vaccination. I can tell you that one of the causes of hesitations and fears and suspicions is the cluster of miscarriage of vaccines that occurred during your government. People have serious concerns, and many refuse [in fear] to inject wasted doses of vaccine. Here before the Riigikogu, can you confirm with full conviction and responsibility that such a thing is not possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U66	Thank you for that question. This is not possible because, first of all, there were no COVID vaccines, except for AstraZeneca, which we had to donate. And secondly, after it became clear that the storage conditions were not adequate, the Health Board transferred all those vaccines and all the drugs that were in the warehouse. That's the damage we've suffered, and none of these vaccine doses have been injected into humans.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U67	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U68	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'm trying to avoid emotions now. I want to be clear on something very important, and that is one very fundamental question. In particular, the Government of the Republic's Order No 305 of 23 August, which lays down the measures and restrictions necessary to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and is based on the provisions of § 28 (5) of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, says that we have a particularly dangerous infectious disease. This justifies all these restrictions, including the coercive vaccination that you say does not exist. But the day after that, on the information day of the service providers, on 24 August, your Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo said literally that COVID-19, as well as the mutated COVID-19, is today a disease that we can no longer say 'new, dangerous'. And if we can't say "new, dangerous," it means we have both the cure and the vaccine. This is also the case with many other infectious diseases. He admits that in this sense it is quite difficult to legally oblige people to vaccinate. Now, for the sake of the truth... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U69	Good questioner! Sorry, your time! Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U70	Thank you. Let me just give you an example so you can understand that this is still a dangerous virus. If it wasn't for a dangerous virus, people wouldn't die from that disease. And in the last month, unvaccinated people have died from the Corona virus five times as many as those who have been vaccinated. Unvaccinated people have been hospitalized 2.5 times more due to the corona virus in Estonia, and unvaccinated people have contracted nearly 2.5 times more. In fact, this is the number of deaths that is important. It is important to have a serious illness that primarily affects older people. People over 60 years of age are three times more likely to die from this disease than younger people. It's a very serious illness, and I certainly don't recommend having it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U71	Dear colleagues, I'm just asking you: we all know that we have 60 seconds to ask. Please, let's try to fit the question into it. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U72	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! As usual, I am concerned about the situation in Estonian schools. This virus is known to spread very widely among our young people and in several schools, a number of schools have very large corona lesions. School leaders are in a lot of trouble. Even before the schools took a break, several Estonian schools were forced to send their children home, several schools have closed their doors at all. And here's my question: what's the attitude of your government? Are we trying to keep schools open at all costs until the end, or is there a red line somewhere, from which the government decides that schools will be shut down all over Estonia and children will be studying at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U73	Thank you. We have very different regions and we have very different schools too. When we take the level of vaccination at educational institutions, we have a little over 83% of teachers vaccinated in comprehensive school and upper secondary school as of 11 October. But if you bring more students, there are big differences between classes and there are also differences in regions when we look at both the level of vaccination and the level of disease spread. In general, it is a belief that it is unreasonable to make restrictions in different places in Estonia differently. People are moving. If the spas are stuck in one place, they'll just move to another place. But you don't change schools. It seems to me that there is no reason to shut down schools in Hiiumaa, for example, if the spread of the virus is in a specific area. Our goal is to do everything we can to enable schools to be open and children to go to school. When the intermission is over, we have agreed that screening tests will be performed in schools, so all children will be tested. Of course, it's a very heavy burden and I don't know how it all works out, but that's the goal. And vaccinated children can continue to go to school if someone else turns out to be sick. Unvaccinated students will have a PCR test and be at home as soon as they know that someone is in close contact. It may take a few or three days to find out about this close contact. If this PCR test is negative, the child can return to school. But the goal is precisely to keep schools open and children in schools. If that is not possible, we will try to resolve the situation with either less restrictive or more burdensome measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U74	Good luck, Hillac, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U75	He got back by accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U76	It happens. Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Prime Minister! I have two very closely linked questions on one issue. First of all, you mentioned at the beginning of your presentation that the Nordics are in a better position than we are. Would you repeat and recall what is the main reason, the main difference between us, thanks to which the Nordic countries have made progress? What's the reason we're not so successful? And the second, the question is this. I am very concerned that we do not treat these students differently, pupils in general education schools who have either been vaccinated or have been sick, and who have not. Are there fundamental differences between these students in the way they can participate in contact learning in the light of the restrictions that will apply today? The fact that in certain cases they have to carry out a separate test, contrary to those who have not been vaccinated, is a completely different issue. But is contact learning open to all in a uniform manner?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U78	Thank you. First of all, the first question about the Nordic countries. Firstly, what I have pointed out: there has been a social agreement that this is a health crisis, and everyone has been supportive in this regard. Second, you don't jump over your shadow. If we take people's convictions and look at this Eurobarometer survey, which was in May, [we will see] that Finland and Sweden are in a rather [predicted] state. People's beliefs show that they are positive about the vaccine. As for those who are vaccinated in schools and those who are not vaccinated, everyone has the opportunity to go to school. If someone in the class gets sick, the exception is that all children who have been vaccinated can continue to attend school. Children who have not been vaccinated must take a test. If the parent refuses to take the test, the child must be at home in contact for 10 days. But if he does a PCR test and gets a negative result, he'll go back to school. In short, the goal is for all children to be able to go to school nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U79	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for coming to Parliament today and we can hold this debate. How would you encourage me to advise those people who are doubting and hesitating today and who are really doing so for personal reasons? They have a problem. And what could be the first step they could ask for advice, who to call, where to go when they feel that it might be wise to protect themselves with a vaccine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U81	Thank you. First of all, you can get information from the Vaccinator.ee page. It says all myths, which are the main fears people bring out, such as the incidence of side effects of vaccines and all that. But the most reasonable thing is, of course, to call your family doctor or family nurse. Today, vaccinations started for two weeks, so we can go there. And if for some reason your family doctor does not believe in the vaccination, you can go to another family doctor or family nurse and ask these questions and get answers. You can also call the helpline set up for this, and these questions will also be answered. There are quite a few ways of getting information, helping to overcome fears. But I think the best way is to talk to a family doctor or a family nurse who can directly take these fears down and explain what you really should be afraid of in order to balance them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U82	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U83	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am very pleased that you admitted here in your speech that no one in the Riigikogu wishes to step out of NATO. So far, you have, unfortunately, claimed that this is what the EKRE would want. I hope with this this this lie has been finally overturned. In the same way, you could end your baseless story as if the EKRE were against vaccination. However, I ask this question: if you have imposed, under the threat of penalties, that different companies and authorities must check the vaccine passport, how is it possible that the app created for this purpose simply does not work? This signal has come from a lot of places. How is it that you are imposing an obligation, but there is no possibility of fulfilling it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U84	Thank you. First of all, I find it very cynical that you have been vaccinated yourself, but you undermine trust in vaccines. I think it would be reasonable for there to be a social agreement on this. But second of all, I'm not aware this app isn't working. I've had a few cases of my own when this app hasn't read my proof, but then it had to be taken in a picture, and it immediately read. I've never seen anyone work with this system, and it hasn't worked. At least it can't be massive. If this is the case, you should contact the Technical Service or, in the case of a restaurant, contact other restaurants and ask for advice on how they can be checked. I'm sure there's some tricks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U85	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U86	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! You've spoken here many times about what we did when we were in the government. Yes, we were in the government, and Estonia managed perfectly with the first wave of the Corona. There was no masse on the street protesting against the government, neither were the police dispersing them. You have been Prime Minister for about ten months, and we will be among the European corona peaks for the second time in that time. You keep blaming a party that's not in the government. Do you still not understand that it is your responsibility to steer Estonia in the corona crisis and you have completely failed as Prime Minister? Your government has completely failed. You came here today to talk to us without a plan for further vaccination. You haven't done it so far, and it's not going to go any better. So when you're talking about the Nordic countries here, the difference between the Nordic countries and us is that people there trust the government, but they don't trust the government, because you lie all the time, just like you lied about this demonstration today. When are you going to resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U87	Thank you. First of all, I would like to remind you that during your reign, demonstrations were forbidden. Everything was forbidden, the fundamental rights were so limited that no one was allowed to go anywhere. The protests were forbidden. Secondly, when we were in opposition, we realised that this was a health crisis. We fully supported the government in the steps that were necessary at the time. But you can't compare the first wave with the first 34 infected when an emergency was put in place, and the top was probably 140 sick in the hospital. This was a completely different situation. This was a different situation in all countries; people were afraid. I understand you want to put all this into your business, but people's behavior has changed in time. If you really wanted to protect human health, you would support all the measures we have come up with. After all, you yourself took these measures when the first wave was.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U88	I ask for silence again in the hall. Please respect those who ask, those who listen, those who answer. Martin Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U89	I would, of course, point out that I did not get an answer to the question. And secondly, I would point out that it's not nice of the remote to lie. This is not how bridges are built. There was nothing forbidden. We had protestors in front of Stenbock from month to month, and no one disbanded them. It's not nice to lie. This is not progressing in Estonia in the fight against korona.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U90	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U91	Thank you. Prime Minister! In my understanding, one major problem has been very confusing communication throughout this area and throughout this period. At the end of last week, I listened to the explanation of the chief doctors, rather interviews with them both in Tartu and Tallinn, and it was very clear why hospitals could not receive people, why it is limited, which is caused by the infirmity of the disease. People understand that very well and take it to heart. Here's my suggestion to you: would you consider replacing Mrs. Lutsar? My respect for him, but his speeches are very confusing, does not give the impression that he knows the subject. And it's very difficult for people to understand him. Once again, it was very good to listen to the chief doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U92	Thank you. Everyone has different roles in this crisis, and Professor Lutsar certainly shares this area very well. Hospital managers talk about the continuity of hospitals, and their messages are very clear. I agree with that. In any case, I have also asked the hospital managers to speak more to people, to explain the situation so that it can reach all the people of Estonia. And I'm really glad they've done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U93	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U94	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! When I heard they were talking about this app, I remembered we had it. What happened to the Keep app? And my second question is that at this point in time the treatment of corona patients to the government is far more important than the treatment of patients waiting for a long operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U95	Thank you. There's no government. These decisions are made by hospitals. It's just, when people get hospitalized with COVID, hospitals don't have a choice. They can't say on the door that we won't take the pain. Like I said, it means that the COVID departments need to be expanded when these sick people come in. This is an infectious disease; these people cannot be placed in a ward with other patients. It requires additional people to work. So it is very regrettable that because there are so many COVID patients, hospitals are forced to limit their scheduled treatment. But we can all make our contribution so that it doesn't go any further, keeping distance, going homework where possible, sticking to restrictions and vaccinating. Then the hospital network numbers won't grow so big that the planned treatment needs to be further limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U96	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee this morning, you said that the aim is to protect the medical system from overload. But now you have divided society, you have divided people into groups or classes: one, these vaccinated, can travel around, participate in numerous events where new viral lesions occur and viruses are spread to both unvaccinated and vaccinated individuals. In the same way, we have the borders of Estonia open, everyone can enter Estonia, they do not control their infection or other indicators. Ultimately, these people get sick and get hospitalized. It's completely real. My question is, how does this logic of restraint protect the medical system from overload?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U98	Thank you. We have two-thirds of the people in hospitals unvaccinated, we have over 90% of the people unvaccinated in COVID's third-grade ICU. Therefore, there is a reason to limit the movement of unvaccinated people, precisely so that they do not get this disease, so that they do not get sick so badly that they do not get hospitalised. It is necessary to protect them in order to keep society as a whole open.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U99	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U100	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! We know that many people are concerned about the side effects of vaccines. How many of them really exist? Is there such statistics or an overview of the side effects that may be associated with it, such as nausea, fever or something else, redness? Perhaps people would gain courage from it if it were [clear] that it did not actually result in side effects that endanger human health. I think it's like it's going to carry on, so people would dare to get more vaccinations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U101	Thank you very much. The Vaccinated.ee page contains all the main myths about what people fear. And scientists have disproved these myths there. This information can be found on the Vaccinating.ee page. These data have been published, we have also shared them with employers who say that they are having conversations with workers who have fears. All of this can be investigated there. And the ex is different myths, maybe I'm not going to read all of them here. Certainly, the answers to specific questions can also be obtained from your family doctor. There are 175 people in Estonia for whom the vaccine is contraindicated, so it is not contraindicated for most people. If one vaccine is not suitable, one of the active substances is suitable for another where the active substance is not present. So, in consultation with a family doctor or a family nurse, you will definitely find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U102	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U103	Good manager! Prime Minister! Maybe I've got something wrong, and I'm gonna ask you a question. As of now, it should be that if you've been through, six months will be valid for this paper. And if you've been vaccinated twice, it's the same way. But the third vaccine can be made in eight months. If there is a vaccine today, can't it be that if a person wishes, and I hope there are many who want to make a third vaccine, then it could be done sooner?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U104	Thank you. There is currently a recommendation that the efficacy dose is given to those over 65 years of age and younger people who are in very close contact with the virus: health care professionals, nursing home workers, teachers. It's been explained to me that way. When people ask me that I'm 44 years old, but I want this dose of effectiveness, I don't want to get sick again, it's been explained that when I'm a young person, the vaccine works so that I have a memory in the cell. And this cell will fight if the virus wants to penetrate my system. If I let myself get that shot too tightly, the cell becomes lazy and, in fact, the immune system decreases, and it has to keep up with those doses of effectiveness. Since older people have a very strong decrease in immunity, they are advised to do so, but younger ones do not need it. But I know that when people ask very much, the family doctors make the dose of effectiveness, but now we have followed the recommendations of the European Medicines Agency and the Estonian Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U105	Aivar Chef, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U106	I would point out that in six months, my proof will no longer be valid, but I can only go for the injection in eight months. What to do in the meantime for two months was my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U107	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U108	Here today, many times, the good manager and the Prime Minister, have been spoken of lying. I have a question about the Saturday video that spread across our media landscape. I quote: "I have a message for our health mafia: stop inciting hysteria. During the crisis, hospital management has shoveled more than 300 million euros to combat the so-called crown. They've lied to us that they don't have beds. " Do you have any information that Estonian hospital managers have lied to us that they do not have enough beds?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U109	Thank you. No, I have no record that Estonian hospital leaders have lied. I'm sure they haven't. Whoever has doubts, I can arrange a tour for them. You can go see if that's true or not true. But I believe in Estonian medical leaders and all those who fight this virus every day. I will also answer Aivar Koka's point of clarification. It is the certificate of breakthrough that is valid for six months and, in addition to or during this period, one injection is recommended. That's also because then this evidence of infirmity is no longer valid. A breakthrough plus one injection is considered to be vaccinated. But when we talk about efficiency doses, none of these evidence will lose its validity if you don't do that efficiency dose.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U110	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Prime Minister, you have referred here to India that India has solved the problem with the COVID simply by the death of people. This is another lie in your endless sequence of lies. The disease broke out in the state of Uttar Pradesh at the beginning of May, by the end of July the disease had been eradicated, and not because almost 300 million people in the state of Uttar Pradesh all died in corpore. There's almost as many of them as there are people in America. At the same time, I think last week, Svenska Dagbladet wrote that 70% of people who died in Swedish hospitals had been vaccinated twice. The Uttar Pradesh phenomenon stood at the start of immediate treatment, not at vaccination. And one key word in it was "vermectin." Of course, the world is trying to ignore these facts, but these are facts. My question is: is Estonia intended to increase the effectiveness of immediate treatment in the initial phase of the disease?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U112	Thank you. I don't have as much knowledge of India as you do, but I'm based on the usual sources of information that come with the news feed. Now, this ivermectin, which you are promoting, I recommend that you get acquainted with, the Vaccination.ee page contains the writing of Marje Oona, co- professor of family medicine at the University of Tartu, and the writing of the family doctor Marje Oona. He says: "... the available evidence does not support the use of ivermectin to prevent or treat COVID-19 outside well-designed clinical trials. Simply put, this means that so far there is no quality research showing the benefits of ivermectin. [---] There is another well-designed meta-analysis, but it has been withdrawn since one of the studies that showed the great benefits of ivermectin in this study proved to be a fake. [---] There have been a number of other studies that have shown that ivermectin has been of great benefit, but unfortunately they have proved to be counterfeits by examining them more closely. " And here are a series of articles that support it, such as [from] nature.com, science.org, theguardian.com, bbc.com. They're all available. Unfortunately, it is possible to publish these works in the minds of scientific articles, too, which are very weak. And once they're on the web, they can get a huge spread and impact, but there's really no scientific proof. Now, ivermectin is a very good antiparasitic medicine used in veterinary medicine, especially in horses. Ivermectin is also used in humans to treat parasitic diseases in tropical areas, but usually the treatment is a single dose based on body weight, and the treatment can be repeated after a certain period of time. In short, since these so-called COVID-19 protocols of ivermectin recommend high doses, longer-term treatment, or even regular treatment, it has side effects such as signs in the gastrointestinal tract, central nervous system disorders, and also visual disturbances. Ivermectin has been shown to cause poisoning. Again, there are references where you can read about it. Ivermectin also has the potential to affect pregnancy, foetal development abnormalities. And giant doses of [equivalent] test tube doses cannot be used in humans. Unfortunately, the claims that the use of ivermectin in different countries, such as Brazil, Peru, Japan, Slovakia, India, has benefited from the use of ivermectin, are not at all true in a more thorough examination. Even the manufacturer of ivermectin Merck has recommended not to use ivermectin for COVID. Once again there is a reference, you can get acquainted with a specific study.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U113	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U114	Thank you. Prime Minister! You talked about the fact that there are a lot of people who have not yet decided to go into protective custody because they are afraid of the side effects of the vaccine. The mind is reluctant to understand how they have a greater fear of side effects than this serious illness and its associated long-term side effects. Have people forgotten that the introduction of vaccines has been a public health success story, saved people from polio, tuberculosis, all the serious diseases our ancestors had to endure? After all, older people remember children who had to stay in a wheelchair or lame for life as a result of polio. In my opinion, these fears are not created by themselves. On the Internet, for example, YouTube videos are spreading misinformation, frightening people with side effects of vaccines. People who call themselves scientists write public addresses full of half - truths or even lies. A study among the elderly in Ida-Viru County shows that people do not go to vaccination because they believe that Western vaccines are not as good as Russian Sputnik. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It is probably not by chance that the anti-vaccine is spreading in post-communist countries that are susceptible to information operations in our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U115	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U116	My question...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U117	Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U118	Thank you. Fears are very irrational, so in that sense they may not be very valid. First of all, I would recommend that everyone who has fears go to the Estonian National Museum. There is a separate round box on protection poking, smallpox poking: how people used to be persuaded and how religious leaders, for example, said it was necessary. But what can we do? We can only approach science-based. And I have repeatedly said that, in fact, those who can bring this information to people are primarily family doctors. They can prove that they really need to be more afraid of this disease, not of the vaccine. I loved it when a family doctor told me that he had all the elderly vaccinated. How can he convince, while somebody else can't? He said if a person tells him that no, I'm still waiting, I'm waiting for a better vaccine, and I don't know what, he says you know, you can wait, but we don't want this disease to catch you first. And given that we have a delta strain, this disease will catch you before you can wait for the vaccine. You shouldn't take that risk. So there's nothing here but to explain and reach the nature of these fears.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U119	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U120	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good lord! I am pleased that you have come to accept my assessment of the personal qualities of Tanel Kiig and, for example, that you are tired and bored of the raving nonsense of Minister Kiig himself. Last Tuesday, you introduced the restrictions alone. But since I know less about vaccination and ivermectin than you do, I have a question about the work and organisation of your government. On 21 October, you said that the Minister of Culture Ott can continue his work, you will discuss with him further issues of organisation. A week earlier, on October 14th, you said that if there was an overload in the hospitals, Tanel Swing would be ready to resign. To date, hospitals have reported restrictions on scheduled treatment and so on. How much and what has to happen in these hospitals to make these things happen, what have you said? And what about Anneli Otis and the government's rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U121	Thank you. As I was referring to, firstly, the replacement of any minister will not help to deal with this crisis or directly reduce the burden on hospitals. Secondly, as far as the Minister of Culture is concerned, the Minister of Culture is currently on holiday and, when he returns from the holiday, he can also discuss in more detail how his work can be done and whether it is possible at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U122	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! This is where you talk about all kinds of problems, infection and stuff, but there are no restrictions. For example, the Latvian State imposed an emergency situation. I checked myself at the end of the week. Really, the Latvians had all the cafes and restaurants closed, all the construction shops and pulse shops closed, only the groceries were open. And there wasn't enough people to move because there was nowhere to go. Why don't we have something like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U124	Thank you. It's very interesting that you asked that question. It seems to me that you are organising demonstrations to defend freedoms and I do not know yet that all such restrictions are, in your view, unnecessary. It is good that you actually support the steps that need to be taken. As far as the emergency situation is concerned, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases empowers the government to take all these decisions without declaring the emergency situation. So actually, we have these possibilities. And yet I stress that the aim is to keep society as open as possible and only to impose the restrictions that are strictly necessary to prevent and control an infectious disease. If it is possible to achieve the same objective with a less burdensome restriction, we will try to do so, but as I said, that does not mean that we will not finally get to it. Perhaps it is necessary to make tougher decisions, but first of all, let us try to take these steps so that we can move forward without stricter restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U125	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U126	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! In the crisis, communication is at least as important as the solutions offered. Let me just give you an example. Once a person suffering from a disease should be vaccinated, not required to be vaccinated, the procedure depends on whether they were affected before or after vaccination. We know that in both cases antibodies are also formed. The Scientific Advisory Board has made a number of recommendations, which have not actually applied quite so, and it has also created, I would dare say, a lot of confusion and, in some, probably defiance. How does the government intend to ensure clear and unambiguous communication, which also seems right and understandable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U127	Thank you. That is a very good question, because it is very difficult to organise it. In the government, we have agreed on messages that we all support, the government speaks with one voice. But, indeed, we have a scientific council with different professors, we have freedom of expression, everyone can express their opinions, and no one can be denied an opinion. Unfortunately, in a crisis situation, it can indeed give rise to the feeling that different messages are coming and that the public is debating each other. But on our own level, we've been wanting to make sure that, as a government, we give out some messages. We'll try harder, we won't always succeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U128	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U129	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will ask the question of Alar Laneman's follow-up, which in turn pushed your answer. You illustrated India's situation, where the virus spread has been suppressed, with piles of dead bodies. But if you look at the statistics, in India, the mortality rate has actually been three times lower since the beginning of the pandemic than in Estonia. I don't want to say anything about ivermectin. India isn't my favorite country either, which I'm necessarily supposed to protect. However, I do have this logical question: shouldn't you be more correct in your claims? It's not good for the public if you're wrong. Then you don't believe the things that are true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U130	Thank you. As I said, I am not an Indian expert, I really cannot bring these comparisons, because I am not prepared for [the topic] of India versus us. My concern is the people of Estonia; my concern is the people who are dying here. I'd try to make it work so we don't have too many deaths.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U131	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U132	Thanks! To begin with, there really is a time when we should put an end to this political struggle and commit ourselves to stopping the spread of the virus. That's my question. Good echo, please, light us up a little bit. Now this enhancement dose: line 65+ people on this list, teachers on this list, doctors on this list are all understandable. What about the rescuers? Look, the rescuers, I'm the one who got his dose with the rescuers, that's over six months ago. Six months have passed, we have the ability to save in Estonia, as it is, kind of thin, but there are no rescuers on this list. What will happen or what should be done to them? They ask me from time to time, what do I tell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U133	Thank you. There is no political struggle with you, at least on this issue. The effectiveness dose is that the recommendation of the European Medicines Agency and the recommendation of the Estonian Committee on Immunoprophylaxis have been that people over 65 years of age and people with less immunity should receive these injections, as well as people who are very exposed to the virus: teachers, health professionals, social workers. For other younger people, the saviors are strong men, and that is not what is needed. As explained to me, the cell will have a memory when the vaccine is injected, and the cell itself will fight if the virus wants to penetrate the body. If a young person who doesn't really need it, who already has a strong immunity, and this cell memory works, is given an injection of the vaccine too closely, the cell may become lazy and, in fact, in some ways, the person becomes addicted to the vaccine. That's when the effectiveness dose needs to be kept up all the time. So basically, you can ask family doctors for an effective dose if there really is a situation where you're exposed to the virus somewhere. But I am simply explaining why we in the government decided to follow exactly this recommendation from the Committee on Immunoprophylaxis and the recommendation from the European Medicines Agency: precisely because it is not really necessary for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U134	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U135	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have panicked against answering questions about Anneli Ott and Tanel Kiike. However, members of the government, ministers are those who make important decisions and implement them. Today, we have to admit that these decisions and the implementation of these decisions have not been very successful. My question is once again about the Tanel Swing, many times already. I quote the question posed by the journalist on 14 October: 'Does the Minister for Health and Labour also have to take political responsibility? "And your answer is literally: "The Minister of Health and Labour has confirmed that he is responsible for ensuring that hospitals do not go beyond critical limits. So that's what you can read. " What, then, is the responsibility of the Minister for Health and Labour? And do you think the hospitals still haven't reached the critical limit? In your report, you said that this critical limit has already been exceeded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U136	Thank you. It is not news to anyone that the Minister for Health and Labour is responsible for health care, for all that is happening in this area. That is absolutely true. If you've listened to my report, right now we need to mobilize to resolve the situation we've developed. Will the Minister's departure resolve this situation now? I'm sure he's taking some kind of political tension off, but is that gonna solve the hospital situation? Not at the moment. But I have heard this question in any case, and members of the Riigikogu always have the opportunity to take appropriate steps if they consider that the Minister has failed to carry out his duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U137	Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Still from the vaccination. Some figures: more than 1.4 million doses of vaccine have been given at the start of vaccination, 5357 reports have been received, i.e. 0.38% have had adverse reactions. There have been 25 deaths. At the same time, a large number of people have contracted the corona, and there have been 1469 deaths during the same period, 58 times the number of people who have died from vaccine complications. Is there a plan to better bring this knowledge to our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U139	Thank you. You yourself have done this very well now to bring this knowledge to the people. Indeed, they are not comparable [dangers] that should be feared. But as I said, fears are very irrational and the only way to overcome them is to share this information. Secondly, it can be shared by people with medical education who are believed in this matter. And that's what we're really trying to do with people who still hesitate just because they're afraid of side effects. We have a separate chapter on the Vaccinator.ee page for all these common myths. For example, one myth that is and is not true is that COVID vaccine causes infertility. There is an interesting thing that the Lithuanian Prime Minister told me: it turned out that in the exact same wording the myth was used in Africa when vaccination against smallpox was started there. It's literally the same thing that's now being used against the COVID vaccine. Yeah, these myths are spreading, but they're not really true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U140	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U141	Prime Minister! I have a question that is more related to school arrangements. In fact, we know and can also see from statistics that the spread of the virus in schools is very high. However, once again from statistics and from last year, we know that these numbers will rise after school break. Would it be a sensible option to cross-check and, like in other countries, to carry out rapid tests on which you were relatively sceptical today, to share them and to test them every two or three days in order to prevent the spread of the virus in schools? Maybe it's high time we did it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U142	Thank you. As I said before, schools are very different. Let's take a good example of Tartu Jaan Poska Gymnasium, where all teachers have been vaccinated and 90% of students have been vaccinated. As a result, there are no infectious lesions and children are not sick, everyone can go to school. But unfortunately, this really is not the case in all schools. Yeah, we've agreed that if the school break is over, they'll do a "screening" in the schools. Everything's being tested, it's going to be very complicated. I hope it can still be organized nicely to break the chain of infection. As far as I know, there's a plan to use rapid tests, but the problem is how to take the burden off the school nurses, because it's the school nurse who can do the test. And actually, there's a lot of kids. Now, we agreed that since the beam test still doesn't provide full assurance, after the school break, if a [class detected] sick child, then vaccinated children can continue to attend school, unvaccinated children will be sent for a PCR test. And as long as they wait for the test to result, even if they don't have any symptoms, they're at home. If the PCR says they're negative, they can come back to school. It's somewhere, say, the fourth day after close contact. That should cut the infection chain. So that's the plan and the goal again is for the kids to still be able to go to school.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U143	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U144	Thank you. Prime Minister! It's like we have three challenges to fight this virus. One is the issue of preventive vaccination. This is something we have discussed very much and [thinking] what else could be done to ensure that vaccination is better organised. The second is the issue of treatment, which has become very difficult for us at the moment. And the third is, of course, the spread of false information, how to limit this misinformation. I can't ask about everything. I'm focusing on the treatment. As far as I am aware, there is currently an application from five pharmaceutical manufacturers in the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for their medicines to be authorised. Some have been granted an initial marketing authorisation, one should receive a final marketing authorisation on 10 November. Here's the question: when we were ready to purchase masks centrally at the beginning of the crisis, is the Government of the Republic ready to prepare a central procurement outside the health insurance fund so that the medicines can reach Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U145	Thank you. After all, we have acquired a remdesivir for hospitals, which helps to alleviate this disease. That's what we've done. But I must admit that I am not so familiar with the developments of the European Medicines Agency in the area of medicines. If there is a medicine that helps and is recommended by the European Medicines Agency, then the Minister of Health and Labour must propose to the government that such a medicine be purchased in hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U146	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U147	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! I, like probably many colleagues, have been in contact with family doctors and other doctors, and I know that medical students recommend vaccination. Unfortunately, the results are still rather poor. About one in ten call calls has agreed to vaccinate, and people have been given all the scientific reasons that this is useful. We have been talking about the medical crisis, we have been talking about the communication crisis, but what we have not talked about, but maybe we should talk about is a crisis of faith in my opinion. Hence my question: have you also communicated with religious circles and involved them in this matter and in convincing people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U148	Thank you. Yes, I have had meetings with the Council of Churches precisely because people who are at risk also attend church. We had really good meetings, they said they'd call for vaccination, and they've done it. I know that Archbishop Viilma has done this and has set an example and other church leaders in the same way. However, it seems to me that this one time is not enough, that more needs to be said. And I know the Minister of the Interior must have met them again last week to get as far as possible to this very high-risk group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U149	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for a very interesting presentation. In your speech, you said that we have paradoxically the freedom fighters who are preventing the whole society from moving towards total openness. Did you really think that people who call unvaccinated people together and give them a hard time and encourage mistrust of doctors would create new coronals, which is why hospitals and schools are stuck? Are such people still freedom fighters? Or do freedom fighters behave differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U151	It was quotes from freedom fighters. It is precisely because those who claim to fight for people's freedoms are, in fact, people who stand before people's freedoms. This is because that is why we do not have a level of vaccination so that we can act as a free society, without restrictions. I'm afraid that's true. It was freedom fighters in quotes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U152	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Consider my question, too, as a modest contribution to resolving this crisis. Dr. Arkadi Popov was a practical crisis leader in the first phase of the crisis and managed it relatively well. I would say that Tanel Kiik is undoubtedly a nice and good person, but he cannot cope with this crisis, he does not have the qualities to manage it. Have you never considered putting Arkadi Popov in a leading role in this crisis, or social affairs minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U154	Thank you. Arkadi Popov runs West-Tallinn Central Hospital. No one can be put in charge unless they agree. We currently have a number of different positions outstanding, precisely because this is a very difficult job. There is a great deal of media attention, a lot of pressure, and a lot of people just don't want it in their lives, they don't take that responsibility. And you can't force anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U155	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! First of all, thank you very much for this two-hour marathon match! But I have to say with great regret that among these numerous questions, most of the political nature was: when did this minister go, when did the other minister go, and you will be accused that you do not know very well about the Indian system and how to get rid of the Korona, and so on and so forth. But my question to you is this, precisely because there have been no concrete proposals for you from several committees in this hall. There have only been political speeches and press releases. What is your final recommendation to us here, to every member of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U157	Thank you. This recommendation is certainly that [we are awaiting] good proposals. In fact, individual members of the Riigikogu have been very active in their thoughts and have put forward proposals on how to resolve the situation that could still be done. For example, the same invitation to people to vaccinate, what are the other tools that could be used to convince people? There have been proposals. So if there are good proposals, be sure to put forward these proposals. And in the same way in the committees: if the committees are discussing, if you have a broad debate, the result could be that you come up with proposals that could still be done. The outcome of this debate, I think, would be very positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U158	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U159	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I thought it was a great idea to come here today with this statement because we found out a lot of new things. But we also learned a lot from someone else. For example, we have learned from the EKRE, firstly, that they are ashamed of this Saturday speech meeting or demonstration because they distance themselves from it. Of course, they could tell their local organisations that the invitation to take a free bus to the demonstration on Saturday will be withdrawn from the websites. They're still upstairs. We've heard from the EKRE that they're not anti-vaccine. They haven't been able to go that far to say they're vaccine fighters. But maybe soon they will also say that Sweden is not so bad a country I do not know. I just wanted to ask you that. In Sweden, vaccination [is such that] 80% of 16-year-olds and older have been vaccinated, 90% of 80-year-olds and older. Please tell me what the corresponding numbers are in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U160	Thank you. The corresponding numbers in Estonia are as follows: I have them by county, but in total 60.4% of the 16- to 17-year-olds have been vaccinated in one dose. If we take the 80+ age group, the coverage is 64.3%. It is the highest [in the age group] 70.79, which is 75.9%. And, of course, if you look in the numbers, you can be very proud of Hiiumaa. In total, vaccination rates in Hiiumaa are slightly above 71.8% and this provides an opportunity to refrain from requiring control measures. But these are our levels. However, we are very much behind Nordic levels. One reason is that there is also a tradition in the Nordic countries for older people to be constantly vaccinated. I very much hope that our people too have come to know that they should defend themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U161	Prime Minister, there are no more questions from the members of the Riigikogu for you. Thank you very much for this presentation and for answering the questions. We are moving on to the negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups can take the floor in the negotiations. Now I would like to ask Mr Seeder to speak on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U162	I'll have eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U163	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U164	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Thank you very much for adopting the proposal to come to Parliament to give an overview of the state of play in the fight against coronavir. I think that this political statement and debate today have been absolutely necessary and that this proposal has justified itself. The members of the government and the vast majority of politicians have called on people to actively vaccinate in order to reduce the spread of the virus and reduce the burden on hospitals, the health system at all, and that is absolutely right. But you can't do that by twisting your hand. It is necessary to create opportunities for this. This requires communication and messages to be understandable and reach people. And it would also require real action to be agreed, which will then be carried out in a targeted way. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic has not done all of this on a satisfactory level, and that is why we are in the situation we are in today. And this is confirmed by statistics: 55% of the total population have been vaccinated, which shows that we have failed at the rate and extent of vaccination. Crazy communication is undoubtedly one of its causes. I would remind you that only recently, the Prime Minister thought hard here and suggested that unvaccinated people should be pushed backwards in order of treatment. This was immediately followed by a statement from another member of the government that no, that will not happen. And the next day, the Prime Minister also announced that he had changed his mind that this really wouldn't happen. But it doesn't create trust in government messages. After such messages and controversial communication, it is hard to expect society to believe in the government that the government has enough confidence and authority in inviting it to vaccinate. It is also irresponsible that one day after the local elections there will be a comprehensive package of measures, which will also provide for the wide range of restrictions that society is planning to implement, and that they will not be widely discussed both in Parliament and in the target groups, as well as in local authorities and in general practitioners affected by these new initiatives. We understand that the reason for the local elections was why such proposals [previously] did not come out. It wasn't for one night that these restrictions were invented. These were previously developed over a long period of time, but these decisions were postponed, and the government departments just took the Centre Party and the Reform Party over the election results for people's lives and health. This is not a responsible behaviour by the government. The restrictions that are applied are more likely to be met if they are logical than they are understandable. Unfortunately, however, it must be said that at times these restrictions are illogical and vague and even promote the spread of the virus and defy many people because they are neither targeted nor targeted. They seem unfair to people. I am thinking of this subject of testing, that the person who was tested just before the event took place is no longer equated with the owner of the corona passport. However, we know that this person, who has been tested just before the event, is safe for others and, in the broadest sense, does not spread the infection. At the same time, a person in the pocket of the vaccination passport who is not tested before the event may be infectious. And the question immediately arises as to why we treat people in this way differently and restrict the less contagious person more than we do the other. The explanation that this is in the interests of the same person is not proportionate. In broad terms, the rest have freedom of movement at school and elsewhere, whether it is any cultural event, sporting event or whatever. And at all these events, a person can spread the virus. And he's spreading the infection to all people who haven't been vaccinated, they're minors or unvaccinated people for any other reason, for example, who have medical reasons to avoid being vaccinated. After all, this spread continues to take place in society. And we cannot logically explain to thinking people why we are doing this in this form, in a situation where several other European countries, on the contrary, have increased testing, especially in schools. In particular, regular testing is carried out in schools. Making such decisions is not the most rational one. And the result is that the protest moods in society are growing, the gap and confrontation in society is growing. The [question] has also not been resolved. Their proof is valid for six months, but what happens next, this issue is also unresolved. The Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis has proposed that the presence of antibodies be taken into account. People who have not tested before, when they are measured with antibodies, should take this into account and only after six months should they receive an additional first injection. But the government has made no decision about it, these people are unaware of how, how, how. It's a big target group. Indecisive by the government! In addition, I do not think it makes any sense what the President of the Medical Association has also pointed out. Right now, at the height of the pandemic, we learn that there will be no additional funding for COVID in this form next year. This must be done at the expense of ordinary health insurance, i.e. on scheduled treatment. If it is not true what the President of the Medical Association is saying, then again it is a question of communication, of messages that have not reached the [related] party, who should be aware of matters and should be able to understand these messages very correctly what the government is issuing. But such a statement has come. And one more thing. If, as politicians, we call for people to be actively vaccinated, then we must also build trust. A vaccination damage fund has been established in Finland. And I think that the purpose of this damage fund is, above all, to build trust: public authority, which promotes vaccination, also takes on a certain responsibility, creates a trusty bond. This proposal has also been made to the government, but I do not know that the government has made any decision on it. In my opinion, it would be very reasonable and would create a trusting bridge that public authority would also take on a certain responsibility. And at the end of the day, it's a question of hospital overload. If there are people who can't do their job, it's not political technology, it's basic to finding new people to replace these people. Today, this responsibility is solely on the level of officials, and no politician is responsible for the situation that has developed. This is not right and it is not fair. Prime Minister, I call on you to make an adequate decision on the ministers of your cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U165	On behalf of the Centre Party Group Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U166	Ladies and gentlemen, Good vaccination options have been created in Estonia; all applicants have the opportunity to receive a protective injection. Various and various measures have been taken: for example, reimbursement of sick days, telephone contact of non-vaccinated people belonging to risk groups, and vaccine buses in different areas of Estonia offer a near-home vaccination option. Good Leo Kunnas! Under the leadership of Minister for Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige, serious efforts are being made in this area. The options for vaccination are therefore clear. But the situation in COVID-19 in Estonia continues to be critical and the situation is deteriorating every day. We have two main problems: the low number of people vaccinated and the heavy burden of hospital care. From the point of view of hospital care, the high proportion of non-vaccinated people, especially the non-vaccinated elderly, is a major concern. I welcome here some media publications that have reflected the suffering of people in need of hospital care and the urgent recommendations to be vaccinated. I hope we have enough peasantry to learn from the mistakes of others. The vaccination rate increased slightly last week, but is not yet sufficient. What can the country do to increase the rate of vaccination? The Centre Party has proposed six proposals. Support or compensation 100 EUR 60+ for people undergoing a primary vaccination course or an effective dose. Secondly, a performance fee of EUR 10000 for each family doctor's centre in the 60+ age group to reach at least 80% of the completed vaccination coverage. Thirdly, the payment of a performance fee of one month's salary to the staff of nursing homes if the final vaccination coverage of the staff of the nursing home is more than 90%. Fourthly, a support measure for local authorities of EUR 10 to 20 per capita if at least 80% of completed vaccination coverage has been achieved in the 60+ age group or in the adult population. Fifthly, the establishment of a national vaccine damage fund with a comprehensive patient insurance system. Sixth, a pilot vaccine taxi project to promote home vaccination. I encourage the Government of the Republic to implement these motivating proposals. I also call on all unvaccinated people to take part in the vaccination stages from 27 October to 5 November. In hundreds of family doctor centers across Estonia, all applicants can vaccinate themselves free of charge against the COVID-19 at both first and second doses. In addition, an effectiveness dose of 65+ is provided to elderly and health, social and educational workers who have six months since their primary vaccination course. We must jointly support the Estonian health system and hospitals. It is already difficult to find health professionals in the COVID-19 departments. The load is very high and several hospitals are forced to postpone scheduled treatment. The faction of the Centre Party agrees with President Alar Karis, who says that our actions affect not only ourselves, but also all the others who are close to us, working partners, society as a whole. Finally, the demonstration on Saturday. The right to protest is the strength of a democratic Estonian state. But the political forces who make demonstrations on medical matters in the face of the crisis, sowing fears with inner joy, are actually doing themselves a disservice. The searchers for such political benefits isolate and weaken themselves. Common sense for everyone who wants to save our society, our economy and our loved ones! I support Valdo Randpere's call and I could name those members of the Riigikogu who do not vaccinate themselves, and I can safely admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U167	Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U168	President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Prime Minister! Reminds me a little of the Soviet party meeting: we condemn, we call for freedom for Angela Davis, freedom for Nelson Mandela! Where else?! Who else do we condemn, who else do we invite to release?! I don't understand why we've wasted more than two hours here. What did we hear here? What's the exit? The EKRE is guilty, the Varro Vooglais are guilty that we haven't all got our shot yet. Are you sane?! No, it's not the EKRE! And, citizen Randpere, I'm not ashamed that I was there on Saturday at Liberty Square. I'm proud of it, and I'm sorry I didn't have you. Because we were not anti-vaccine there, but we were advocates of freedom in the Liberty Square under the cross of freedom for people's freedom, so that they would not be put under pressure for refusing the vaccine because they have concerns about their health, to leave their job, so that they would not be let go, so that they would not be taunted, so that they would not be treated as second-class people. That's what we heard for two hours here, how we're second-rate people who dare to question the sacred Trinity truths. But we dare to doubt it, and we're not ashamed to admit it. Do you know how many people have contacted who say they can't get proof from their family doctor that would give them the opportunity to attend events? Who's got a heart rhythm disorder who's allergic, who's still got a third problem. But the doctor doesn't, says I don't dare give it to you, we've been given an order. Whoever gave this order doesn't know. A deep state? Karilaid, you gave the order? Calls on all of us here to advise people to get shots. Look, I don't recommend it because I'm not a medic. I can't take responsibility for a person having cardiac arrhythmias and dying after an injection. I don't take that responsibility! Echo Kallas takes, these deaths are on his soul. These deaths are on the souls of those who say, put them down without any medical supervision, a review that says: indeed, your health is such that we better not inject now, do some prophylactic treatments, and then inject. Today, in the Committee on Social Affairs, where I was an alternate, we had a debate on this very subject. What did we hear? Oh, my God! If it wasn't for the EKRE! If it wasn't for the EKRE, there would be a paradise on earth! Well, it's not paradise on earth. I remember the same Prime Minister screaming here as the Riigikogu's opponent: we have a better plan! You can't make it, we got a better plan! Well, where's your better plan? No! For the second time, you're stuck in exactly the same mud as you were the first time. You have no plan! And what was the outcome of today's Social Committee meeting? Very simple conclusion: there is no plan. There's only one plan: a syringe on everyone's shoulder. There is no other plan. The plan was proposed by Urmas Sule, the chairman of the Hospitals' Association, the President, whoever said that it was clear that the pandemic would not disappear and that we needed to reorganize the hospital work so that people could receive scheduled treatment. Because the recipients of scheduled treatment are the main mass of people who need hospitals and doctors. Planned recipients, some of whom may end up in COVID patients, whether or not they receive this treatment. It's okay! None of us are bulletproof. Nobody's bulletproof! Even those who have been vaccinated are not bulletproof. I just heard Riina Sikkut's had a corona. Mihkel Raud... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U169	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U170	Mihkel Raud, vaccinated, has received corona. As far as I know, model country Sweden: in Sweden 70+% of COVID patients are currently vaccinated. What are you gonna do with it? Put your shoulder down! Go to Sweden, put your shoulders down, maybe you can save the COVID pandemic in Sweden and finish it somehow. Now it's not that simple. We need hospital care, hospital services, the health care system as such to be reorganised. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the previous government, as well as this government, has a total of several hundred million, several hundred million, I cannot say, the order of magnitude may be 300 million to combat a pandemic that has been set aside. But what doesn't exist is the result. No result! The result is that we're being intimidated, people being influenced to get shot by your grandmothers and grandpas about to die, because you bastards haven't been injected. Now that's the message we heard for two hours in a different version here: right now your grandfathers and grandmothers are going to die because you haven't been given an injection. Kids, everybody in the herd, or your grandmothers and grandpas are gonna die! This is absolutely immoral. But you don't understand it, because the professor of ethics hasn't given you a good lesson. The professor of ethics urges people to take away health insurance and other wonderful things. Do you realize you're doing a totalitarian state here right now? And then you blame those who say we're not a bunch of sheep who gets branded. But we're not sheep! Not everyone's sheep, some people don't get branded. Some people say that I'm gonna have my family doctor say, when I've done my health tests with my family doctor, and the family doctor says, yes, I'm sure you can make this vaccine because I think your condition is such that even if it causes you fevers and follow-up reactions, it shouldn't be bad. But you're not gonna do that! This is the comrade calling for some sort of vaccination. Take the pay on your shoulder, get the saw, like some of them did here just recently, and go to the paws, it's more useful. I can't! It is immoral to call on people to simply inject without checking their health in order for you to be able to write a tick and report to your masters: the Estonian banana republic has handled the tasks assigned to it perfectly. Damn it, just like the Soviets! You're too young, you don't remember all this, I remember. This is such a Soviet party meeting you're having here, so I'm gonna be sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U171	It is now necessary to hear those who have been mentioned. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U172	Since I was mentioned twice by two speakers, I assume I have two speeches in salt.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U173	There's still two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U174	To the last speaker, I would like to remind you that he accused me of saying that the performers of the EKRE are ashamed and distance themselves from the demonstration on Saturday. Mart may not have been in the Chamber and he did not notice that quite a number of speakers from the EKRE claimed that they had nothing to do with this demonstration. However, we can see that in recent days quite a number of prominent politicians have left the EKRE precisely because of protest, because of the involvement of this demonstration and its demonstration with the EKRE. As far as Sweden is concerned, I would also like to remind you that in Sweden vaccination started at a much faster rate than in Estonia. Old people who are now dying in Sweden and who have really been vaccinated have received their vaccine eight, nine, or ten months ago. And, in fact, Sweden is currently making a huge contribution to giving efficacy doses to those who have already received two doses of vaccine. There have been many things in this epidemic that we have not known. At the beginning of the year when vaccination began, we did not know that an effectiveness dose had to be made. We didn't know how long the protection the vaccines gave us would last. Now we know a lot more, and we know for sure that vaccines help save lives. Actually, Mart, what you said from this remote control and what you called, no matter what meeting he looks like, a party or not, it's an invitation to the people to die. I wouldn't want to see it. I'd like people to vaccinate themselves and all of us to live a little longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U175	Jaanus Kariladi was also mentioned. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U176	Thank you. The previous speaker threw false accusations with a loose wrist, rather the previous speaker, that we invite blind people to vaccinate. I would like to remind you, for the sake of the protocol, that the central fraction has formally called for the consultation of the general practitioner and, if possible, for vaccination. I would call on Mart Helme at last to overcome this very deep distrust and to trust the Estonian health care system!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U177	I understand Margit Sutrop recognized himself in the last speech on the remote. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U178	Thank you. There are no ethics professors in Estonia but me, so I think I can say a few words about it. I have never called for health insurance to be withdrawn from people who have not been vaccinated. That's a lie. I have expressed my concern about those people whose scheduled treatment is currently delayed because hospitals are being blocked by people who have not been vaccinated. It's a concern for them, and it's a concern for those people who have done everything they can to protect themselves, to protect themselves, and yet there is no cure. Professor Talving in this very hall told us that in the first half of the year there were more than 20,000 of these prescribed health care managers by the Health Insurance Fund. We can imagine how many people today are not going to be treated on time for this. The issue of these people's concerns is what is fair and how can we organise life in such a way that people who have done everything to protect their health can receive treatment and, of course, people who have not made this wise decision will not be excluded. This is an ethical issue and we are based on the principle of equal opportunities in a disaster medicine situation where we want to prevent the most serious damage. I hope that all members of the Riigikogu will support the principle being followed in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U179	Mr. Kunnas, I didn't hear Mart Helme mention your name in his speech. Karilaide had an address for Helme's speech. Mr. Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U180	Thank you, good Jaanus, for mentioning my name! I will stick to the fact that the biggest problem with this crisis is practical crisis management. If it had been stronger, we wouldn't have been in the state where we are now, either during the previous wave or during this wave. It should be discussed at this level at all. If there were to be an improvement here, it would be a big deal, because this wave, I'm afraid, because it is a mutating strain and the vaccines are not as effective as we hoped, and there are a little more side effects than we expected in the beginning, then we will have to confront this and the next government with the management of this crisis for a long time, perhaps several years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U181	And now we will proceed with the talks of the political groups. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I almost have to say that there has been a certain spirit of cooperation in this room until a certain moment. Clearly, the medical situation is terrible, worse than we thought, and the virus has done everything. Of course, there have also been some bumps in the management of the crisis, especially before the elections. But let's focus on the positive. If you're looking for something in Mart Helme's mess, it's still the same thing that keeps us going. However, when it comes to intimidation with the death of grandmothers, it has, fortunately, not been advertising from the time of this government, but from the time of the previous government. Or what did Martin Helme say when his government began? He made it very clear that vaccination is the only way out of this epidemic. We have agreed that restrictions must also be used and enforced. Some men have said all this a little harder than we'd like to say. For example, Mart Helme said: "Whoever doesn't want to listen must feel it. " He has said that the state has the right to use force methods, and we are going to do so. He has also talked to Telekom's companies about a project to explore where people are located. It sounds pretty strong, though it may not be ugly. We don't know exactly what would have come out of it. But there's been a lot of talk about forced vaccination. Mart Helme has also said so, so it was on March 3rd, so that there would be a really common part. However, if the subject of the compulsory vaccination has been raised, it still sounds a little different: "To vaccinate 101 members of the Riigikogu and the other as many technical staff, plus the government and the State Chancellery, should be fit for the state. " The question is the state's strength, which it highlights, not its free choice. It would be a signal that the state and the government are planning to stay in line and do not sneak behind the screens to hide. And we are not talking about negative things, such as those that the EKRE Board said here in September: we are opposed to the introduction of vaccination obligations in schools, the police, the defence forces and we are urging people not to respond to pressure. The government can use force on the one hand, and the people on the other do not have to submit. We don't remember that right now. Or Mart Helme at the end of August: "Vaccinating the entire population with experimental vaccines in the order of [---] is particularly criminal. "And the Board of Directors of EKRE: "We do not agree with the strategy chosen by the government to implement a forced vaccination of substance in Estonia along with its accompanying punitive actions, especially in a situation where there is no consensus on the effectiveness and safety of vaccines." Of course, we could continue these quotes. But what are we talking about here is the difference? I'd better answer a few things that have sounded. First of all, the most important [argument] that justifies the prevention of vaccination most apart from such stuffy self-closure is that vaccinations also become infected and diseased. There's numbers in the back, there's probabilities in the back. There's a difference in the number of times. If the vaccinee and the vaccinee get together and one carries the virus, we probably don't have to take into account the infection. In the case of vaccinated humans, the risk of infection is very short and the amount of viruses is very low. A little extra time, three minutes, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U183	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U184	What else? When it comes to the Reform Party, we believe that further restrictions may not be excluded if the situation changes. The situation must be monitored, but we believe that additional restrictions on vaccinees could still be ruled out. It would give a completely wrong signal. We must begin to distinguish, and people's own choices must be followed by consequences. These consequences, if not vaccinated, will be too painful for other citizens, both in terms of increased risk of infection and reduced treatment options. And we're talking about the evidence being [sufficient], as a waitress here said, who wasn't at all an EKRE, by the way, but he was talking a little bit like that at times, that the evidence should replace the vaccine, that's what we don't want people to test themselves and then go out and collect the infection. Well, that's the thing about breaking the chain of infections, not allowing a person to have a number of others with a negative test result, which may be right at the moment, but may not. It certainly does not protect against infection, which, as you confirm, can also be caused by a vaccinated person. Short-term yes, a few days, but still. What else are we supposed to do? In short, we agree with the current strategy, and we do not agree that people are being paid to be vaccinated. People have a free service, everything else has to be convincing, but it's ridiculous when we start, as the Minister of Health said, even afterwards paying people money for it, or another way, to make a distinction between those who went and those who went for it. It's a free service. What are we bizarre about?! Raising people's sense of responsibility is also a national responsibility. It's not [right] when you start waiting for free things, plus money. It's immoral, you can't do that. But people have to feel like they're missing something if they don't get vaccinated. We do not think that the last 15% of the persuasion requires much effort, because the meetings and certain political parties in the singular, of course, have been so boxed that they no longer listen, they do not read the pages, they do not listen to the radio, they do not watch television, unless the name is Subject or Uhuu News or something similar. In this sense, this last ending is always hopeless, but we have to deal with the last 15% of all methods. And not that we're drowning them in an ivermectin, which will probably kill the virus if you put it in there, but we don't treat a person like that, so we put a human in a test tube and pour it on him. Let's not play doctor! This is one of the hogs that the party on the door has done, and at the same time mocked the doctors, said that you have a cool life, you have room in hospitals. Let's not do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U185	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Helmen Küttt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U186	Prime Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Today's debate in this Chamber, but earlier in the public session of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, makes it clear that the disease will gain an advantage if the decision-makers and those responsible cannot agree together, put their backs together and actually fight the pandemic. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the government is late with messages, which are primarily intended for those who hesitate and doubt whether or not to vaccinate themselves. The voice of those who call not to vaccinate themselves has been stronger. [Been] Behavior Andero Uusberg's recommendations, entrepreneurs offered their help already in the spring, and there have been proposals by medical doctor Jaak Uibu to establish a national factsheet that would convey information on a fair, balanced and science-based basis and would also talk about the side effects of having not been heard. Everyone must choose between vaccination and the risk of disease. True information must be available in order to make this choice. Our party has also made a number of proposals, such as the reimbursement of sick days for the corona-positive to 100% of the first day. From the point of view of epidemic control, it is an additional motivation for a person to actually stay at home and not go to work if he or she is infected. In that case, he will not lose anything from his income; he will not suffer. There is also the creation of a fund to compensate for vaccination losses and a number of other proposals. On Friday, 22 October, Indrek Saar, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, addressed the chairmen of other parliamentary groups in a letter inviting them to agree on a plan to save lives and continue scheduled treatment, to keep society open for as long as possible. Only in cooperation can Estonia be brought back from the edge of the Coronary Accumulation. I'm just quoting one passage from this appeal because I don't think everyone's read it. "Estonia's current rates of infection, the number of people in hospital and corona deaths, the assessment of the situation by scientists, hospital managers and doctors show that we are on the brink of disaster. Epidemiological forecasts indicate that in the coming weeks there will be a rapid increase in both the infected and the need for hospital care, and therefore the collapse of the medical system is a real threat. The situation is extremely critical. In order to prevent more and more deaths, the cessation of scheduled treatment and the long-term complete closure of Estonian society, we need a joint effort from the whole society and cooperation between the heads of state. This is what the Estonian people expect of politicians. " I hope that the socialist leader's approach will actually be considered. Today I opened the Internet and found the story of Sakala in my country's Viljandimaa newspaper, where Viljandi hospital staff are asking together for help. I'm quoting a few paragraphs from a reporter named Triin Lois. Maybe it'll make you think. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U187	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U188	"Viljandi Hospital announced at noon on Thursday that according to the instructions of the Health Board, it will take place in the Corona Department to increase the number of beds. By Friday of the following week at the latest, the hospital must be able to treat at least 14 patients with coronavir and the hospital staff are reaching their limits. This is not likely to be the only arrangement, as the number of infected people is increasing every day throughout the country, including Viljandi. 166 people were detected in Viljandi County during the weekend. [---] It is also impossible to find more staff, because working in a hospital requires training, but there is no time or opportunity to train volunteers, for example, right now. Now what? How's the hospital? [---] The issue of staff is a real challenge, the situation is critical, and we must take into account the fact that soon we will simply not have the opportunity to crew on-call time. It's not just about the corona department, it's about the whole hospital. Other departments, clinics and units also operate at full capacity on the last border. [---] In the current situation, we need to focus on what the country and everyone can do themselves so that our health professionals can still endure. Let's ask every person what he's done to keep the home health care facility functional and ready to help everyone just when someone needs help? The role of those in need may well come to an unexpected moment. [---] The state can contribute, on the one hand, to financial opportunities and, on the other hand, to the preparation of specialists. For example, for years, there has been talk of a shortage of nurses, and we are now in a situation where we are unable to receive patients because only a hospital bed does not help a person, and hospital staff are also needed who, with the best possible knowledge and skills, would contribute to an effective treatment process. What is the country's long-term plan to provide qualified personnel to the extent necessary for the Estonian population?" Estonian Government! Honourable fellows! Do we have a plan on how to deal with the sustainable functioning of both the virus and the healthcare system today and in the long term? And finally, thank you very much to all those who work in the medical field who work on the limits of their abilities and actually rely on us and our ability to cooperate and the wisdom of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U189	We have now heard the group speeches. The Prime Minister has asked for another word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U190	Thank you all for your feedback! I'd like to disprove or clarify a few things. First of all, the leader of the Fatherland blames me for two things that contradict each other. On the one hand, on 12 October, I came up with the proposals that we are considering. Those were the proposals. Secondly, there was no broad debate. My question to you is why you did not have a broad debate after I had read everything that is under consideration. It seems to me that you were the one who did the election while we were very clearly considering the different options. So maybe you could look in the mirror here. Now, one thing I've already explained many times, but I'm always ready to do it again. We are not saying that the person who took the negative test is contagious to others. Yeah, if he's done a negative test, he's not carrying the virus. Again, the others are dangerous to him. If the person who tells me that you see, I'm unvaccinated, I'm gonna take a test, but all these others can infect me, I'm gonna tell him, please read your letter again and think for a second why they're dangerous to you. But because you haven't been vaccinated. It's all the concern that right now we need to protect those people who are unvaccinated because they're blocking our hospital network. Now, the second claim that other countries are testing more and more, we are going the way. That's not true. On 14 September Finland decided that they would no longer test vaccinated people. Denmark has abandoned the tests; Germany has been unable to obtain free tests since 11 October. This is precisely in order to actually promote vaccination. Vaccinated people will no longer be tested. Then there was a statement that no money was foreseen for the COVID next year. This argument is not true. The additional funding for COVID in the following year, 80 million, is intended for hospitals, the Health Board, vaccination, testing, and all kinds of facilities. In short, 80 million goes there. Vaccination damage insurance. In fact, the government has a longer-term plan to come up with patient insurance to cover medical errors. This has been done for a long time and it has to be done. But I'm saying that if we come up separately now with a specific vaccine damage fund, I would remind you that we have left people who are either anti-vaccine or who are afraid of the vaccine side effects. If we come up with the idea of this fund now, we will actually give a certain message to those people who still hesitate. Oh, if you make some kind of fund, then these side effects are so extensive. No, it's not! Even now, according to the producer's responsibility, it is possible to recover these losses from the vaccine manufacturer, if there are really significant side effects. Actually, there's no way it's gonna go uncoverable. But, yes, patient insurance for the longer term, which includes other medical errors, must come out of it, but not in the middle of a situation where it is necessary to convince people who are afraid. Now another statement: there are people who have certain diseases whose health is weak, that they cannot be vaccinated. On the contrary, health professionals, including family doctors, recommend vaccination just when there are diseases. There are 175 people in Estonia who are not eligible for vaccination. Everyone else can choose a vaccine that suits them, and if there are comorbidities, then vice versa, the vaccine should be given. Otherwise, the virus is dangerous.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U191	Do you want to be an extraterrestrial?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U192	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U193	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U194	The complaint was from the vice-chairman of the EKRE, I don't know, the vice-chairman or who he is now, from the former chairman, that there is no plan and that the plan is only that the vaccination is working. But the vaccination's working! If we look at the Nordic countries, they have come out of this crisis because they have such a high level of vaccination coverage. They're gonna get out of this. And there's a complaint about the fact that the start of vaccination is like bad. On the contrary, family doctors actually do these things to communicate with people, answer their questions, deal with the health concerns that people have. They're trying to reach people. I do not agree that we are late with messages to those who hesitate and doubt. We have been operating at exactly this stage, as different stages of vaccination have been. In the first stage, there were more people who wanted to be vaccinated, and there were few vaccines. Then we had to choose who could, who couldn't. In the second stage, we had enough vaccines and enough people who wanted to vaccinate. We created a lot of opportunities for people to get the vaccine they want. And now phase three is where there are the hesitants, the conspirators, who need to be dealt with one by one. We have followed closely the recommendations of Andero Uusberg, the recommendations of behaviorologists, how to get to them. We've been working on it exactly. Finally, I would like to emphasise one more thing. Indeed, what Helmen Kütt read out to us also tells us that health care workers, hospitals, nurses now need the support we can all give. They need support and peace of work. And please, at least we will act together in this crisis and with common objectives so as not to create further tensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U195	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now we are done processing this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U196	We will move on to today's second item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the collective agreement law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 383. We are discussing the draft that has returned from the President again, is its second reading. Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Siret Kotka, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the preparation of the draft law amending the collective agreement law and other laws not announced by the President of the Republic for a second reading on 21 October. Since no amendments were received by the Commission, the following decisions were taken by the Commission, and these decisions were consensual: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today, 25 October, the second proposal was to close the second reading, and the third proposal was to propose that, when the second reading is closed, the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 27 October. That concludes my review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U198	You don't seem to have any questions. Thank you. As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading. But before we can conclude the second reading, it is possible to open negotiations. I don't see that wish. Then we're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U199	Our third item today is the review of the public service report for 2020 and the chair is called by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am before you today to fulfil the obligation under the Civil Service Act and to give an overview of the most important human resources indicators, developments in the public service in 2020. Such a task, according to the law, I have to go before you once a year and present such a report. The report itself is available to you here, as I have seen. It's 80 pages full of comprehensive numbers and materials. So you've gotten to know it, but I'd like to make a brief summary. 2020 was a difficult year, as we know: a year of endurance, a year of adaptation, a year of health crisis. All sectors, including the public sector, had to make significant changes to work organisation, to find solutions to new problems, to carry out unusual tasks quickly and immediately. Cooperation between authorities and regions was strengthened. State and local government workers were able to adapt quickly to the changed working environment and new tasks, which actually increased the volume of work. Thousands of staff continued to work as an office or telework so that services could reach people and the state would function independently of the crisis. Working at the home office was a reality last year and it is clear that the hybrid form of office and teleworking has come to stay. Digital solutions simplified and made teleworking more flexible. Public authorities are making efforts to continue with flexible working arrangements, given that the necessary conditions and resources in the working environment must also be ensured in the home office. We are trying to find additional opportunities to encourage more flexible recruitment across the board, in order to increase the employment of public authorities in different regions and regions as well. This will be done in a row by state buildings, the construction programme of which has already reached the intermediate finish in some counties and is being continued. We also create comfortable remote jobs there and bring together public service providers in the region. We want to move in the direction that no competent staff is left behind because there are no agencies in their home country. In addition to being at the forefront of the fight against pandemics, public authorities and local authorities also carried out their own basic work and services. Important sectoral reforms continued. The work was started by the Education and Youth Board, the preparations for the establishment of the Environmental Board, the Agricultural and Food Board and the Transport Board were completed. Organisational restructuring will continue in order to bring together sectoral competences, thereby increasing synergies and providing better quality services. In 2020, the public service represented 21.3% of the public sector staff with 28371 staff. The public sector as a whole employed 133172 employees in 2020. Compared to 2010, the number of employees in the public sector has fallen by more than 5 000 people, or 4%. Of the public sector employees, 89% are in the general government sector, which includes central government, local government and social security funds. The general government includes, for example, state and local government authorities, schools, hospitals and cultural institutions. Public services cover only state and local government authorities which exercise public authority, such as ministries, agencies, inspections, urban and rural municipalities. In 2020, the public service accounted for 2.9% of the Estonian working age population, which is 15 to 74 years old. It has remained close to 3% of the working age population over the years. In eight years, the number of civil servants has fallen by 5.3%, which is then compared to 2013. However, the decrease in the number of staff has slowed down. As the number of tasks carried out by the state has not decreased and as we have experienced in the last year, unexpected challenges have also had to be addressed. In 2020, the public service increased by 743 employees, i.e. by 2.7%. The number of civil servants increased by 775 or 3.5% in the national authorities and the number of local authorities decreased by 32 or 0.6%. Now you might ask where this huge number of employees suddenly came from. In fact, the number of civil servants was most affected by the establishment of the Education and Youth Agency, not because of the increase in the number of staff, but because of the transfer of staff from the merged institutions to the public service. And these employees came to the Education and Youth Board from the foundations of the institutions to be merged and now went to the public service. So the number of employees didn't increase in itself, but it's kind of an arithmetical equation. These institutions were Foundation Innove, Archimedes Foundation, Education Information Technology Foundation and the Estonian Youth Work Centre. Nearly 400 people went to public service, who did not go under the Civil Service Law before. None of the merged bodies was previously a public service body. The increase in the number of civil servants was also influenced by the Defence Forces in the Ministry of Defence area, but this is in line with the National Defence Development Plan. The number of defence staff has increased from year to year. The number of employees in the local authorities has decreased, not very significantly, but slightly. Of the civil service staff, 22834 served with the national authorities and 5537 served with the local authorities. More than a third of the public service was then made up of special servants, which were 10416 in 2020. Special servants include police officers, rescue officers, prison officers and military personnel. The number of special servants increased by 2.6%, mainly the Defence Forces. If we make addition-breaking decorations here, then in the public service of the central government of the state, apart from the special service, there are just over 12400 employees, not 133000, as sometimes they love to talk. It's the whole public sector. The general government wage growth of 4.9% was 2% higher than the average gross monthly wage growth in Estonia; Estonia's average increased by 2.9% last year, in many respects by increasing the wage competitiveness of priority target groups. In fact, in 2019 it was again decided to increase wage resources in certain priority areas on the basis of wage comparisons. This raise reached their employees or their groups last year. 2.5% additional money was provided to the payroll fund of teachers, cultural workers, social workers, internal security institutions, as well as several ministries received additional money to help with the salaries of their government agencies , mostly the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs. In addition, the wage increase in the government sector was influenced by the wage agreement of health care workers and one-off support to improve the functioning of the Health Board due to the corona crisis. The average salary of the public service is higher than the average wage in Estonia, as the nature of the work is more complicated and the educational requirements are higher. The proportion of people with higher education is significantly higher among civil servants. Staff are generally highly educated, as their work requires high qualifications. In 2020, the proportion of people with higher education among all employed in Estonia was 43%, while the proportion of civil servants with higher education was 62%. In 2020, the average gross monthly wage of the civil service state and local authorities was EUR 1813. It grew 4.4% over the year. The average gross monthly wage of the national authorities was 1846 euros, an increase of 4.9%. The average gross monthly wage of local authorities was 1588 euros, an increase of 4.1%. Wage growth has been up to 2% faster than the average gross monthly wage growth in Estonia, but wage growth has slowed significantly compared to previous years due to the effects of COVID. Compared to the general market wage level of the institutions participating in the national wage survey, the average monthly pay gap of the national authorities in 2020 was 12.4% of the general market median, and among the top specialists, primary managers had an average of less than 17%. The increase in wages in 2020 was due to the fact that this additional instrument was provided in 2019 for certain priority areas, while the increase in public service wages in 2021 is likely to remain at 2 to 3%. And we have heard that Estonia's average is rising by 6 to 7% this year. So this year, the increase in public service wages will certainly be well below the average wage growth in Estonia. It was also a conscious decision. The government office, when drawing up the state budget, decided that most of the public service wages would be frozen, given the situation in which the budget was drawn up last year. Wage growth in the private sector had also come down a lot. In order to be able to recruit a skilled workforce capable of providing a high-quality public service to the public, it is necessary to ensure that public service wages do not fall significantly behind the wage levels of competing labour market segments. In the public service, 3732 staff searches were carried out. The number of staff searches was 462 fewer than in 2019. The main reason for this decrease was the situation resulting from the COVID, which led to a decrease in voluntary turnover of approximately 2%, remaining at 6% in the national authorities and 8% in the local authorities. The recruitment of new staff was also suspended in many institutions during and after the emergency period. However, nearly a fifth of the staff searches fail shows that applicants with an appropriate professional profile are still lacking and have not been altered by the COVID situation compared to 2019. The lack of candidates is also a problem. In more than a quarter of the competitions, there are fewer than three candidates for the post. The age, gender, national and linguistic composition of civil servants has been stable over the years. The average age of a civil servant is 43.6 years. The gender distribution of civil servants shows that there are slightly more women than men, but there are more men in special services. The share of non-Estonians among staff was not calculated in 2020, but an internship programme was carried out in cooperation with the Integration Foundation, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture. The aim was to introduce job opportunities to public authorities and encourage them to apply for public sector positions. The internship program received very positive feedback from the parties. Continuous training and development of staff is necessary to ensure that public service and public-paid workers are competent and responsive to the rapid changes in society in their day-to-day work. A good public service can be provided by an educated and professional civil servant. On average, 0.67% of the wage costs were used for institutional training in 2020. This figure is very low. It is considered normal to use 3% to 4% of the wage costs for staff training. The main reason for this decrease may be the absence of training under the conditions of the corona apandemia, but the training budgets are also very small. And the small size of the training budget may mean a challenge for the institutions in the development of their staff. While public authorities, in addition to the agency's budget, are now able to receive training through central or inter-institutional training and development, the resources of the current European Union financial period will end in 2023 and new sources of funding will have to be found, as these Structural Funds will no longer support such an objective in public authorities. In cooperation with the heads of all institutions, we are constantly looking for new ways of optimising the organisation and activities of the state and making the most effective use of taxpayers' money for the functioning of the state. I continue to attach importance to the development of e-state and the wider use of IT solutions in the provision of public services. At the same time, it is clear that not all services can and must be replaced by a review of existing processes, the possibility of being effective and a critical assessment of their need as a whole. Cross-cutting issues such as green and digital revolutions, as well as social and health issues, need to be increasingly addressed. This means increased cooperation across institutions and readiness for flexible division of tasks. Life around us is changing rapidly, which needs staff to adapt rapidly to change, and at the same time we need to find ways of constantly developing our staff. I will continue to make sure that competent and dedicated workers work in the Estonian public service, who effectively carry out the tasks of the state. Our country has the advantage of being small and can quickly plan and implement changes. Rapid adaptability and openness to cooperation are certainly the key words of the future. We need to value and maintain people serving the country, we need to recruit the best experts in our field, and we need to reward and develop them in a worthwhile way. The state and municipalities as employers must develop and co-estate. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U201	Minister, members of the Riigikogu can ask you one oral question each and, ladies and gentlemen, try to fit this question into one minute. Now, Aivar Sõerd begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister Ab! The average wage in the public sector was 1813 euros last year. As we know, we have such a nice tax system with a regressive tax-free rate, where the tax-free rate starts to fall sharply from EUR 1200. It is 2020 now, but we are talking about next year. With the tip, rescuers, cultural workers, teachers are paid more, but just as a little more is given, so the tax burden increases due to the reduction in the tax-free rate, due to this excellent tax system. We are coming to the point that even teachers and rescuers at the bottom of the pay scale will no longer receive the tax-free income that was in force in 2016, during the reign of Taavi Rõivas: 170, 180 euros per month. You can't even get it anymore. I ask whether it is fair that savers and teachers do not even receive the tax-free income that was in force in 2016, during the reign of Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U203	Thank you for your question. I think it is fair that very low wages are either free of tax or very low tax rates. As far as police, rescuers and teachers are concerned, the Minister of Public Administration is taking these figures to the government office during the drafting of the state budget strategy and, if possible, they will be raised. The decision to raise your salary is available to you here in the Riigikogu in the draft state budget; this is a government proposal. If you find any more options, I'll always be there for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U204	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The report also focuses quite thoroughly on the pay gap and it can be said that it is quite positive that women earn 14.6% more than men at executive level. At the same time, it is explained here that this is due to the payment of overtime. Of course, we might wonder whether men have not agreed to work overtime or have not been paid for it. But instead, I will ask you about what unfortunately the report doesn't stop at all, but it could. The regions are geographically divided in very different ways between different authorities, and this is a problem. To give an example: Rapla County is divided between institutions according to six different options. Why is this not covered in the report?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U206	Thank you! Yeah, it's definitely a topical question for me. I've built it myself. But the authorities-agencies were given the freedom to adjust their own regionality. We know that first all the institutions had offices in almost all the counties, and then they quietly began to concentrate somewhere in the regional centres. I will be honest with you that there has been no political will to harmonise this in any way. This may also be a little more difficult to do, because these public works are very flexible forms. As I said today, there doesn't even have to be a unit in a county center where these jobs are, either in a state house or somewhere as teleworking. We do have one proposal with which I would like to go to the office to improve cooperation between local authorities and public authorities at regional level. This [need] is also due to this crisis. In fact, thanks to the good management of the Rescue Board, the Regional Crisis Committee worked quite well, I would say. That's the lesson we took from the South-Estonia storm when there was a small stop. Everything works better now. But what do we do now at regional level, at all, with these institutions, are we really going to start doing them the same by some kind of template, so that these regions are even? There was also a small deficit in this Regional Crisis Committee, as the regions did not exactly overlap with the Rescue Board or the four regions of the Ministry of the Interior. But it was solved relatively quickly. Is it necessary to make one template for all agencies and agencies? I was of the same opinion myself once, but I don't know if this is the most topical [problem] right now. I think that if it works, it doesn't matter how many regions the institution actually works.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U207	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We are used to thinking that the pay sector is always driven by the private sector when we talk about public sector wages. Now recently, news has come where Lidl says that the median wage in this sector will be increased by 25%, to which local trading companies will also follow. It makes you wonder what is really going to happen in this area and what its impact could be on public sector wages, especially when we are thinking about the lower end of care and the provision of local government services. But my question is more of this COVID crisis. I didn't read much about the country's continuity of operation in this report. However, it was a year on which we could sum up and make recommendations. How do you sum this up briefly? Did the public sector do well?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U209	Thank you for your question. In fact, I also acknowledged the public sector in my presentation. The challenge was great. As far as analysis is concerned, I hope we can get to that. The impact of the South-Estonia storm was analysed and certain conclusions were drawn without them entering the law. We have, for example, been negotiated by the Regional Crisis Committee and now, during the corona crisis, it has begun to work. There was no law amendment, but the Rescue Board took over. This is a case where, let's say, the agency that should manage the crisis regionally, that is, the Health Board does not have enough resources to do so. Rescue has it. We agreed that if there is a crisis like this, then normally the Rescue Board will take over, if not, let's say, an institution with such a resource and structure or an agency responsible for a particular crisis. Now, as far as analysis is concerned, this should certainly be done. First of all, we still have to overcome these crises, but we will learn every day. In fact, from these previous waves too, one lesson that I also referred to is how work can be made more effective. We're all studying, and one of the [options] is hybrid forms, teleworking forms. People who work in the public service can be offered the most flexible form of work possible. It is likely that in public service some people will be teleworking if this is possible if they do not always come into contact with customers. Maybe they only go to the office a few times a month. One more conclusion we made is how we can save and optimize. We've started counting on office space. And we will see that probably not so many are needed because we have flexible forms of work and can use teleworking. In autumn, I also came here with a preliminary review. The state real estate company and the ministries are taking such a picture now. One decision we have made, it is such a famous decision: in these towers we will create enough room to accommodate the entire Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U210	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister, first of all, thank you for your presentation. On page 18 of the report, the number of special servants of the Defence Forces, i.e. persons in active contractual service, is 2938. I'd ask how many of them are in the Defence League. Have the Contracting Servants of the Defence League been included here or are they separate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U212	Thank you for your question. I think those on the payroll are in the case of the Defence Forces and the Defence League, the volunteers are probably not. All this material, which concerns jobs and wages, has been reduced to a single burden, with the figures for a normal job. That's how much I can answer. I often don't know how to answer the numbers of the Defence Forces. Perhaps the honorable questioner knows better. But it is certain that the number of members of the Defence Forces has increased. I think this is a long-term decision, as envisaged by the National Defence Development Plan. The decisions that have been taken are in fact made out of a desire to strengthen the Defence Forces. I think it's positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U213	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U214	Good manager! Dear Minister, First I want to thank you, Jaak. I think you're one of the strongest and better ministers. But I still have a question for you. When we are talking here about the public service and the current activity-based budget, one of the objectives is to provide better quality public services and, at the same time, to reduce government expenditure and the number of employees. I know this is an extremely complicated process. How do you feel about today's number of employees in the public sector [is optimal]? Of course, the number of teachers, doctors and rescuers must not be reduced, but we have almost a quarter of taxpayers working in the public sector. Do you think that this number of employees is sufficient or could be smaller or should be higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U215	Thank you for your question. I think today's world is so changing that we can never predict. The public sector grew in the last year, 2020, with the highest number of employees in health care. The numbers are given, hospital personnel figures are reduced to one job, and additional work is done there. The biggest growth in the public sector is in hospitals. When we talk about the public service, here are these agencies and agencies, I want to emphasise that there are no 133000 of such typical officials in the office, there are only 12,000 of them. It's often said to be a huge army. Among the army you mentioned are teachers, cultural workers, even state companies, local government companies, foundations, this is where the public sector owns the majority. If even 51% of the company belongs to the public sector, it is automatically in the public sector. The service is much narrower. And when it comes to the public sector, it is not really possible for the central government to direct very much here. These are the services that are provided and, if more healthcare is to be provided, there will be more people there. If we take the number of civil servants, the position has always remained around 3%. Fortunately, it has not expanded, and if you look at the ten-year period, it has even decreased. In fact, if someone expects us to let go of half the officials, and life is beautiful, then, as we can see, in some situations, we might be in a lot of trouble. This is likely to continue to be a relatively mobile number. And I would like to say that the state, in fact, has ensured a better quality of assistance and service year after year. In a crisis situation, we are often in trouble, as you can see, but generally there has been a development that services and assistance have been better on the part of the state. In fact, the first objective is to provide a better service without increasing the number of employees. [Help is] e-services as well as other digital solutions, information technology. But to develop this service, we need a person again, don't we? It doesn't come from nothing. We'll take support services in certain places. I remind you, Aivar, you were the head of the country. I remember the county government of the 1990s, there must have been almost 20 accountants, and now the entire country's accounting is at the State Support Services Centre, which is also under the administration of the Minister of State Administration. Of course, we are doing everything we can to ensure that costs do not increase first and services are of even better quality at the same time. I dare not allow us to pull off somewhere with a pencil like this and now say some huge goal that there are several hundred fewer people in public service. But then maybe the person or businessman will come and ask why my permissions are being processed for so long, which is what this is about. So it's all like this [with two ends]. We need to look at quality first. And, as we have done in recent years, we have now gone through very thoroughly the mergers of ministries' agencies and agencies. We basically worked everything out, looked at where there are duplications where we can get the support service out. Usually acting on the axe method can kick your ass, so maybe we'll make this work worse. We still want to make work better and, at the same time, we are trying to prevent this barrier from increasing resources and costs. This is the main task, and every day we deal with it as we succeed. Sometimes it works better, sometimes worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U216	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U217	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister, I also thank you for this presentation. Unfortunately, my question coincides quite a bit with the previous one. For years we have been talking about state reform and, broadly speaking, it means more efficient performance of the state's tasks and cutting red tape, improving services, reducing government expenditure and so on and so forth. What is your assessment of the functioning of the public service from the point of view of state reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U218	Thank you for your question. A very topical question, and I can talk a lot about it. Certain spokespersons for the reform of the state, I can refer to Jüri Raidla, he may want to comment, but the proposal of the National Reform Foundation was to do so as a targeted action within a certain period of time. Having worked as Minister of Public Administration in small breaks since 2017, I am more in favour of evolution than of revolution. If there's a revolution, you can run away. So it's actually a continuous day-to-day activity. It is a continuous day-to-day activity, and it is not an easy activity, because these same efficiency, efficiency [steps] are often not only supra-institutional, above one ministry, but also inter-ministerial. In order to do these four consolidations, I had a pretty busy summer, of course, in the ministries' managements too. But it had to be negotiated. I remember how I went to the political groups together with these ministers to present the sectoral plans we are going to make. This time it worked. We remember how the merger between the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate blew up a couple of times in the Riigikogu. This time it worked. I think that the basic content that we are still waiting for is that services are getting better, not worse, and, at the same time, we are saving up a certain resource, both time and human resources. But I'm saying, really, I've been doing these things for quite a while. The fact that there will be some sort of enormous resource of savings, in fact, is that somewhere there will be ten fewer people, somewhere soon another ten fewer people. This is such a long - term process, which requires quite a lot of work. I think one thing we do not yet know the final number is the final result of the consolidation of these four ministries. It's practically still going on. They were merged into these institutions, these agencies, but what's left of it, I'm going to do that analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U219	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, I too must thank you for a very thorough presentation and work. But it also reflects the topic of state buildings and I ask whether all decisions on state buildings have been taken by the government all over Estonia. Have all the decisions of the state houses passed through the government yet? Has it been decided that they would come? And there's another subject I've asked you before. This is the removal of public authorities' staff from their posts in the regions. How's it going? I am interested in just how many places have gone to South Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U221	Thank you, current question. As far as public buildings are concerned, this programme was decided a few years ago. In the meantime, the financial volume was also increased, at the beginning it was less. We got more money on my proposal. And the only thing I have to ask in my office is to build a new house somewhere. It's written in terms right from the beginning. A new house has been decided so far, it's Kärdla's. Well, we'll try, well, it's not a very pompous project. Some people might want to have new and beautiful houses in every county center. But we're still looking at the need: how much space we need, in what situation the existing buildings are in. In fact, in one sense, it is an improvement in working conditions for the people who are there, and it is important to have these teleworking places in all public buildings. On the other hand, the property has been relatively depreciated, the institutions are scattered across the county centre and there is no point in putting them all in order. We'll do one house or two times, we'll create good conditions there, we'll tie these institutions together. In itself, it also benefits a person and an entrepreneur. How much is physically going to an institution today, but it is still going to be. And in these houses, such as Jõgeva, which was completed, there is an information worker who either directs the person or helps him to do what the person needs on the Internet, for example. We try to get closer and meet people. With regard to the second question... I forgot what you asked for besides the state houses. No more questions? [[They say something in the hall.]] Yeah, actually, let's say that in the wind of administrative reform and reform of rural governments, or even before, the first government of Jüri Ratas started working at the end of 2016, we took this course because it was evident that the number of jobs would decrease with the break-up of rural governments anyway. And with the administrative reform of the local government, this figure could also be reduced and was aware of the direction of compensating it with the removal of the state institutions from Tallinn. It was a real fight, and what we got, we got. If you ask me what's next, I can't tell you. It's not like the subject's been buried, and if anyone has any good ideas, we'll support it. In the meantime, however, this process must not dissipate, and this is supported by the view of the urban people towards the earth that emerged during the crisis. Very many rural people work in public institutions in the city, and now they can do so at home through flexible forms of work. You don't have to sit in Tallinn's office all the time. And what has changed: in the case of these competitions, in most ministries and other state institutions, the job is not written Tallinn and the address there, but Estonia. I hope that it will continue to develop, now we will try with all other measures, including supporting housing or securing a loan from KredEx, so that a person can work in a state institution in a rural area without having to live in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U222	Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you! It is now possible for the political groups to say something about this review. I'm opening negotiations. The political groups do not wish to negotiate. So we have finished processing this point because we are not taking a decision here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-25_U223	We have exhausted today's agenda, except that it is possible to speak in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Please, who wants some? You're welcome! Leo? No, I don't. Aadu, free microphone! That's not what you want. Then today's trial is over and I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
