ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will start the 3rd working week Thursday session of the VI plenary session. And, as always before the beginning of the sitting, we will be able to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! If the members of the Riigikogu do not wish to do so, please address the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching a draft State Budget Act 2022. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance in the proceedings of the draft law. The draft has been transmitted digitally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U3	We have adopted a draft with you and, of course, we will decide on further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now I have a very important message to give you. In fact, over time, we have accumulated all kinds of material in the drawer. Today, I have a request that you empty your drawers, because next Monday, the Riigikogu Chamber will have a final event for the Model-European Parliament Forum and it would be very nice if visitors could also put their notes in this drawer if necessary. So please empty the drawers. And now, with this drawer, please, let's do the presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U4	69 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to inform you today of the updating of the agenda. Namely, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's session of the Riigikogu in connection with the transfer of the draft State Budget Act 2022. According to Paragraph 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Home and Working Rules Act, the Chairman of the Riigikogu has added to the agenda of today's sitting and added the political statement of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to the first item. Please, Prime Minister! Excuse me, Madam Prime Minister. Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U6	Thank you. I have a procedural question: would the President be so kind as to present this item on the agenda? Is it possible to ask questions? Is it possible for the political groups to negotiate, or how has it been planned, how has it been agreed to process this application in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U7	That's a very good point. It has been agreed that the political statement of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will last up to 15 minutes. If you need to give me a few more minutes, the manager has the right to do so. It is then agreed that no questions will be asked to the Prime Minister. In accordance with § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, it has been agreed that the political groups will then have the right to speak during the negotiations. So 5 + 3 minutes are foreseen for each political group after the Prime Minister's speech. Please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U8	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, the government handed over the draft state budget for 2022 to the Riigikogu. I am proud of this budget because it is a good news budget that helps us to keep the people of Estonia and to support the continued development of the Estonian economy. This caring and responsible state budget has come about largely because our economy has recovered rapidly and rapidly. And the economic recovery, in turn, has been strengthened by two important government activities. Firstly, an ambitious and well-targeted additional budget for 2021, which we quickly developed in the spring, and secondly, an informed policy with which we kept the economy and society as open as possible in the health crisis. The Estonian economy is strong and reached the level where we were before the corona crisis began. Let's see the bill. Our economy grew 12.9% compared to the second quarter of last year. However, this cannot be done because last year's fall was very profound because of the health crisis that began at the time. So let's look at the time before the health crisis begins. And compared to the second quarter of 2019, Estonia's economic growth is good at 4.7%. Employment is also recovering. While 76.3% of the Estonian working age population had a job in the second quarter of last year, 78% already had a job this year. This figure is similar to that of 2019 before the crisis. The strong state of the economy is the backbone of our state budget. The long-term British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has said: "The only money that the government has comes from taxes and borrowings of the same taxes, which everyone complains they are already too high; from the same loans that raise interest rates and have to be repaid. The nickels do not fall from heaven; they must be served here on earth. " Thanks to a strong economy and bold decisions, we were able to draw up a responsible state budget by 2022, focusing on our people being well-maintained, our economy being able to grow, and at the same time paved the way for the continued development of our country. It is a budget for the whole of Estonia, where the priority is healthy, educated and happy people and strong and protected Estonia. Good Riigikogu! The government has given you the draft state budget for 2022, with revenue of 13.13 billion, expenditure of 13.64 billion and investment of 716 million euros. The tax burden will be 33.7% of GDP next year, which is lower than this year. This state budget has three directions. First of all, we're taking control of the country's day-to-day spending. Second, we invest in people. And thirdly, we guarantee Estonia rapid and sustainable development. First of all, we're taking control of the country's day-to-day spending. In recent years, the hole that was carved into the government's wallet is bigger and deeper than it should have been. We're gonna fix it. Among other things, it also means combining different national activities and implementing state reform to make the public sector more efficient. We want to reach a deficit of less than 3% next year. While a year ago the debt ratio was projected to reach 30.8% of GDP, i.e. EUR 10.2 billion, now agreed, it will remain within 20% next year, which is 6.4 billion in 2022 and 7.8 billion in 2025. Secondly, this budget is, above all, the budget of the people who have been kept and educated. We highlight our people who have suffered the worst negative effects of the health crisis: teachers, health professionals, police officers, rescuers, cultural workers. They are also of key importance for the smart and healthy, caring and cooperative society and for a secure living environment set out in the "Estonia 2035" strategy. Therefore, by supporting them, we will also support the achievement of the country's long-term goals. In order to ensure that teachers' pay is equal to the average national wage in the new year, we will increase the minimum wage for teachers by more than 7%. We also raise the salaries of cultural workers as well. We raise the minimum wage of the police officer at the front line by almost 5% and the minimum wage of the savior by nearly 12%. We ensure that the wage increase agreed in the collective agreement of medical workers is increased by more than 7%, or the minimum hourly rate for doctors and nurses, and by more than 9% for care workers. We also raise the salaries of state-funded care providers to the same level as those of nursing workers. In doing so, we will contribute to a significant reduction in the proportion of people with high maintenance loads compared to today and the number of healthy life years will increase to 63 years for men and 64,6 for women, as is the target in the Estonian 2035 strategy. Let's just think that in 2020 there were 55.5 more in men and 59.5 more in women. This pandemic has also had invisible victims, and it is important to us that those in need receive support. We support mental health and finance activities that help to level out the learning gaps of our children. We create a family mediation system so that there are fewer children coming from broken families. Despite the fact that the income base of local governments is increasing by more than 100 million euros, we support local authorities in providing children with an interest education of more than 10 million euros. In addition, we support the cultural pack of basic school pupils, which aims to ensure better access to culture, whether it is a museum lesson, a cinema or theatre visit or a concert experience. We want children to get more organic food at school, which can be provided by small local producers. Some critics have asked what are the benefits of proper public finances and precisely targeted crisis measures. Here is a concrete example: the right economic policy decisions taken this year will lead to an increase in the average pension of over 13% in the new year. The third important direction of the state budget next year is the rapid and sustainable development of the Estonian state. It is important for all of us that Estonia is protected. We promised that the defence budget would hold at least 2% of GDP, and we will honour our promise. Compared to this year, we are investing 103 million euros more in national defence, a total of 748 million euros, representing more than 2.3% of gross domestic product. Defence costs thus reach a record level in Estonian history. This is a strong message to both our allies and our opponents: Estonia takes its security very seriously and contributes to it. Estonian-language education receives additional funding in the budget, because we want all Estonian children to receive a good education and speak Estonian at a level that enables them to participate equally in society and working life. We allocate EUR 8 million to the development of the Estonian-language education system and provide funding for hiring additional teachers in Estonian in groups of other native-language children in kindergartens and general education schools. Estonia has managed to keep the image of a small but good digital state in the world. In recent years the digital budget of the Estonian state has been in the background, the digital tiger is starving and no significant additional money has come into the development of the digital state and the permanent cyber security fund. But next year, this attitude will change. In order to keep our digital tiger running and to give him the chance to get back to the top, we have allocated 30 million additional euros for the development of the digital state and for cyber security. We want Estonia to be smart and innovative, and more value added is produced in these jobs, for which more pay can also be paid. Research, development and innovation therefore have a crucial strategic role to play. That is why we are increasing R &amp; D funding by 29.5 million, to a total of around 300 million euros. In order to give people confidence, we have decided to cancel all the excise increases that were previously planned. We do not increase excise duties because we do not want to accelerate the price increase further. We also intend to include measures to compensate for high electricity prices in the budget. If the price of electricity remains at a long, unreasonably high level, we will help reduce its impact on our people and our businesses. People should not be alarmed by the price shocks in the energy markets. Good listeners! These are just a few examples of the big picture that the state budget received next year as a result of long and in-depth discussions. The corona crisis focused all its attention on other areas and planning became very short-lived. Now it's time for a different approach, a long plan. Both Estonia and the world are facing serious changes and long-term challenges, be it in the fields of technology, demography or climate. I am pleased that our long-term strategy "Estonia 2035" has agreed on how we, as a country and society, prepare for these challenges. This budget contributes both to the longer-term goals set out in the strategy and to ensuring that the people of Estonia and the state are well maintained right now. Important support is also that next week the European Commission will approve Estonia's recovery plan, which will bring unprecedented investment in public sector projects, especially the green and digital sectors. These investments will increase the competitiveness of our economy and enable us to endure both climate change and possible crises. The new state budget is the budget for caring about our people and Estonia's future. I believe that Estonia is being driven by a strong, smart and coherent policy, which is, of course, reflected in the state budget. The Reform Party has dragged Estonia out of difficult times in the past and we are also taking the lead now. I would like to thank the Centre Party for its good cooperation here, with whom we have put together the state budget. Honourable Riigikogu! I ask you to support the draft state budget for 2022. Thank you and the strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U9	Prime Minister, thank you for your statement. The Riigikogu is now moving on to negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups can speak in the negotiations. First, I would like to ask Mr Seeder to speak on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! The coalition's messages to date, as well as today's Prime Minister's presentation on the state budget for next year, have been like a major propaganda event reporting on small job victories, but it is left unscathed to say what the budget does not contain or what is harmful to the budget itself, along with the legislative package to be presented. Unfortunately, nothing has been said in next year's state budget about measures to mitigate the sharp rise in the price of electricity that affects our very current and everyone, businesses, the Estonian economy. Nothing! The proposals have been made by opposition parties as well as energy and economic experts, but regrettably this issue is not important for the government in the context of next year's budget. But its impact on people in socio-economic terms and in terms of livelihood and in terms of the competitiveness of Estonian business and economy is very important. We are not talking here about the possibility of making different choices, making different decisions, whether it is not the imposition of renewable energy charges next year or the reimbursement of renewable energy charges, just as the proposals have been made, but also, in the social sense, we will not see any solutions to this in the state budget. The cut that we talked about in the spring, which was foreseen in the country's budget strategy, the 60 million have, as we understand it, left 50 million. But it doesn't matter how much remains. What is important is that the problems that remain unresolved and the same risks that we talked about in the spring actually materialise. The same professional orchestra will no longer continue as a full professional orchestra, and even though the Minister of Culture resoundingly promised in the spring that he would take up this topic, nothing has happened during the summer. This topic remains between the two ministries and unsolved. Not to mention the liquidation of the chaplain service and other things that are being silenced, but all of which are being realized in this 13.5 billion budget. These risks will materialise. We did not hear that today in the Prime Minister's presentation, nor have we heard it in comments from other members of the government. Next, the crisis on the border between Belarus, Poland and Latvia, concerning the illegal crossing of the border and the hybrid war. Our neighbouring countries have estimated this risk to be very high, and all of them have found and considered it important to build barriers in an accelerated manner to prevent such practices. We have some risk assessments that say that there is no such threat in Estonia and there will be no such threat in Estonia in the near future, and therefore there is no need to speed up the process of establishing the border. And we're going to go on with the plan that the border should be completed in planned form only in 2026. This certainly is not an adequate assessment. To think that Russia is a firm, reliable partner who cannot arrange for something like this today in Belarus in the next five to six years, and in a situation where it was done a few years ago, for example, on the Russian-Norway border, it is very naive. And we actually leave this problem unsolved and entirely to fate. And when we have it at one point, we say that we do not know who is responsible, those responsible are already gone, or we get a report that there are so many responsible that it is not possible to identify a particular official, as is the case today during the corona crisis. As we have seen in the Secretary of State's report, everyone has run under the bar, but there are so many runners that no specific person can be identified. Next, as regards the salaries of teachers, rescuers, policemen, cultural workers and other people working in the public sector, what is foreseen in the state budget is clearly insufficient. It doesn't cover inflation. Behind inflation, I recall, there is certainly also a sharp rise in electricity prices, which is reflected in the final price of products and services and affects all consumers, including these people. This wage increase does not cover the changes in society and is far from what is actually the goal of several coalitions: that teachers pay 120% compared to the average wage. The Prime Minister spoke very loudly about how pensions grow through indexation. We all know this formula, and we may be happy about it, but whoever has gotten a little deeper into the formula knows that the faster inflation is, the faster the average wages are growing, the higher the consumer price index, the faster the pensions will grow. But that's obvious. It runs along with rising prices and inflation, but it does not improve the relative well-being of pensioners. What has been agreed by the coalition on 1 January 2023 is that an over-the-counter increase in pensions and an exemption from income tax on average pensions will come is the frustration of all pensioners. Money released from pension reform is a source of cover. This is the case in the Coalition Agreement: the amounts released from the pension reform will exceptionally raise the pension and cover the exemption from the income tax of the average pension. The pension reform, ladies and gentlemen, has already begun, the money has been paid out to the people, and it will generate revenue in the state budget as early as this year. Why do we wait another year and a half? Why are we not making a pension increase and why are we not fulfilling these promises from 1 January 2022? Neither the government nor other coalition politicians answer this question. I hope that, in the course of the state budget procedure, it will be possible to obtain an adequate answer to this question or to make a corresponding change and to implement this pension increase from 1 January 2022, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition. Local authorities and roofing money. The Reform Party has said: no roofing money. I understand the big roofing money has already been decided by the government and distributed to the ranks of the ministries. So next year, the penthouse money comes, it's already on the lines of the ministries. And now whether or not the change will be distributed in the Riigikogu, we will see that during the procedure. Allegedly, it was intended and planned. And at the end of the day, a little line on state reform. I would like to see and hear what the mysterious thing is, what the state reform is about and what the state budget will implement next year. So much has been said about this, but it is not clear what this reform is about, neither the development plans in the fields, nor the presence of representatives of other ministries, nor now the presentation of the Prime Minister. The state reform will be implemented next year, but what is this state reform? I'd like to know, but I haven't figured it out yet. So I hope that the budget will be better during the procedure and that the opposition proposals will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U11	On behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U12	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U13	Please, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U14	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! Some comments on this beautiful political statement. Today's government led by Kaja Kallas and the Minister of Finance, Keit Pentus-Rosimpus, have been walking around for nine months talking about how the previous government created some huge chaos, confusion and debt that they are now in trouble with. And how we don't have the finances and the discipline isn't, and they're going through the force at all, and there are some unfitting cuts. Well, who has understood anything about finances and the budgetary issues, that, of course, knows that it is pure political propaganda, it has no substance. However, it is interesting to see that the previous government, which had to make a budget at the bottom of the crisis when the economy was in decline and GDP growth was negative, was accused of having a deficit of EUR 1 billion in the budget. Today's government has the fastest economic growth and tax receipts in the European Union, thanks to the budgetary and economic policies of the previous government, above the 2019 level, which is better than before the crisis, than the GDP forecasts before the crisis. Nevertheless, the budget is down, deep down, with EUR 600 million. This means that today's government does not patch up the hole left by the previous government, which arose because of the deep economic crisis and the health crisis, but deepens the hole by 600 million. How, then, are they now in order with financial affairs and budgetary discipline and unfitting cuts? It's all warm air that's being jiggled, and it's embarrassing. Do you want a balanced budget or not? The answer is clear: one party in the government wants to and the other party does not want to. And as a result, we have had a budget, a budget in time of very good, heavy tax receipts, a budget at one end of the cut-off budget, a budget for raising wages at the other end, a budget heading towards balance at one end of the balance, a budget that adds a little money to each other at the other end. Just like the previous speaker, I have a question as to why there will be no pension increase as early as next year. One of the objectives of the reform of the second pension pillar was to make it possible to pay the social tax paid today to those receiving the pension today and not to deposit it with bankers for 20 or 30 or 40 years. I've already got the money. I've already got the money! Those who have left the second pillar, the basic mass of people, have left the second pillar already this year, and this already this year will significantly increase the income of the pension fund and, of course, in the same way next year. Why, then, are pensions not raised next year and expected until 2023? What is particularly cynical is that pension increases take place in January, not as always, not as usual in April, but in January. For this understandable reason: by April the Riigikogu elections in 2023 will be over, not yet in January. When elections are held at the beginning of March, it is freshly remembered, the two retirement days with the new pension number are behind them. It is politically extremely cynical, both in the sense that it will be cancelled next year, people will be allowed to wait for the money that is actually coming to the Treasury, and in the sense that, in terms of the date, there will also be a good political vanger. And it is done, it must be emphasised, at the expense of pensioners. For a year, pensioners are allowed to expect this money. In general, the budget, at least in my view, is a way of managing the economy. Who's gonna raise the dog's tail if it's not the dog himself? When I was Minister of Finance, when the previous government was in power, that is exactly what we did: we managed the Estonian economy through the budget. Where we led him, or the sweet fruit of the way we led him, today's government is enjoying the budget that was presented to us today. Once again: those decisions that were made at the bottom of the crisis, that we are stimulating the economy, that we are not going to cut down already in a deep recession, that we are not going against people and businesses with tax increases, but, on the contrary, we are going to make a payment, that these decisions are already bringing a dividend. And I am not sorry that this dividend can be used by the next government, because it basically benefits society at large. And I don't know, maybe the pension increase in January 2023 will help some of the other governments in power at the time, in March 2023. Politics is dynamic. So you never know who's taking the benefit of what you're doing today. But today's government is not running anything, nor is it running the corona crisis, nor is it running the economy with a budget, nor is it showing any way to anyone in the sense that they want to achieve with their own budget. I still don't understand what cuts are going on, where cuts are going on. In fact, I can say with complete calmness, having seen or having seen [at a rate] how the budget is being moved, that most of these cuts are fraudulent or virtual. One hand removes one amount from one line of the Ministry's budget, and the other hand allocates the same amount or an even greater amount to the other line of the budget. And then the Reform Party can say, look, we made cuts, and from the other end the Centre Party can say, look, we gave more money. Well, maybe it's possible to fool the public like that, no doubt not us. But, of course, we haven't seen the budget itself yet. I guess when we see it, we can comment more accurately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U15	Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democrats, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U16	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! The first full budget of the government led by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has now been handed over to the Riigikogu and we have just heard what the Prime Minister himself said about the state budget for 2022. I have to admit, to me, his words sounded hollow in many ways, especially when they talked about caring and unity. We did not get any more clarity about what the budget really is and what it does not have. Members of the Riigikogu, at least members of the opposition, have been kept largely unaware. We are familiar with the individual details and sometimes conflicting pieces of information that the ministers have found useful in saying, but we are, to a large extent, still unaware. Unfortunately, the knowledge of colleagues in the coalition does not seem to be much better. And that is what the Minister of Finance calls for to make the budget clearer and more transparent! The impression that the state budget for the coming year will be surrounded by a change of eye, in hocus-pocus, has become more and more pronounced. The government takes it with one hand, it's like giving it to another. On the one hand, the word of the Minister of Finance sounds time and age, and the admonition to austerity; on the other hand, millions more are distributed here and there, even though the sources of cover for these millions are unknown. The one they come at or at the expense of isn't told to the public. I think the government is consciously dealing with eye changes. That is why it is also difficult to commend the government, however it may be desired, or to give credit for things which, in the budget, are difficult to understand what the increases are coming at or at the expense of. Take, for example, the much-spoken issue of children when, on the one hand, children are allowed a cultural policy and, on the other hand, their favorite circle or training is cut off. Thanks to strong economic growth, the deficit of the Estonian state budget will fall by 400 million euros next year, yet the planned cut of 50 million euros in spring is still planned to remain in force. This is when a number of fundamental problems and key issues for Estonia's future are expected to be resolved. We also need immediate relief from the concerns that have been put before us by the increase in electricity prices and other price increases that threaten the livelihood of tens of thousands of people, the sustainability of thousands of businesses. The Social Democrats believe that in the face of good economic conditions and much better than expected tax receipts, the aimless cuts are an obnoxious political drive. It harms our children and worsens the well-being of people in many areas of life and undermines our internal security. But let's look at these lines. First of all, salaries. Unfortunately, there is nothing to say, even though it seems that wages are rising for the time being. I recall that in 2015, the national target was set for teachers' pay to reach 120% of the average wage. This promise to teachers was fulfilled when the Social Democrats were in government. The salaries of educators then rose above the average. However, there has been a significant fall in recent years. As promised, the minimum wage for teachers will rise by 7% or 7.3% in the new year, as the Prime Minister said. However, this is obviously too little in a situation where there is a wage race in Estonia and the average wage increases twice as much during the same period. In addition, there is a great silence over the rise in the pay of teachers, even though they are at some point lower than those of teachers, and universities have been pointing this out for several years. It goes without saying that without a proper wage supplement, there will be no one left in many schools in the near future. This is a question of teacher growth, good education for our children and the development of Estonia. Yesterday, the rescuers went back to Toompea to protest. No wonder, because the government offers underpaid rescuers a wage supplement that does not bring them closer to the average wage in Estonia. Compared to average wages, the salaries of police and cultural workers are also falling. Coupling with people paid from the state budget is cheapening our state's account. We did not hear anything about the concerns of long-term care, so it must be concluded that there is nothing in the new budget again. And now the children. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U17	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U18	The government's spring plan didn't spare children either. Until recently, ministers remained determined that half of the amount, i.e. more than EUR 7 million, should be deducted from the children's interest education budget line. Today we have heard that the cut will come, but EUR 3 million will be given to rural areas. How and what, we don't know. However, I believe that 3 million would not have been found without the Socialist protest, but a reduction of EUR 4 million in funding will inevitably result in some municipalities being drawn to the circles of interest and children's opportunities. Several thousand children can no longer go to their favorite circles or practice as a result of this, apparently after the local elections, it turns out, but it is certain that children's opportunities will not expand, but decrease, and that will remain in the hands of Kaja Kallas's government. The Social Democrats also do not accept that the 2022 budget is not sufficiently committed to curbing the increase in electricity prices. Abolishing the increase in excise duty scheduled for spring is the least that we can do in times of unprecedented high prices, but we have proposed our solutions. We call on the government to withdraw two of them from the Riigikogu procedure, one of them, unfortunately, has already adopted a bill to increase the price of electricity and instead to propose additional measures that would provide people with relief. The strongly increased quota and VAT revenues provide a good basis for this. The Prime Minister's statement that people with economic difficulties must go, with their hands long, asking for help from local governments is cynical and reckless. It degrades people's dignity. I have just heard Prime Minister Kaja Kallas quoting Margaret Thatcher again. The budget ideology Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus has actually set his own example, and this is unfortunately also the cold choices that await in the budget for the coming year and thus in Estonian society. I'm sure the Iron Lady also had good political initiatives in her own time, but at times it's crazy and dangerous for her to blindly take over a rather brutal internal-political social Darwinism several decades later. I have already drawn attention to this at the times of the choices of the spring national budget strategy, and I am forced to do so again. We've had our rodeo experience in the '90s, and most of us certainly don't want to turn back time. Let those sweet memories stay in their time. It should be pointed out here that unemployment in the UK of the 1980s, led by Thatcher, grew threefold, reaching 40% among young people. This, of course, also increased the social and economic inequalities that you have promised to reduce. Absolute poverty almost doubled, and by the end of Thatcher's reign, more than one in five British people lived in poverty, and class differences in society deepened. In addition to the economic growth of the capital, regional inequality increased rapidly. As a result of the austerity policy, many industries remained sluggish, while the financial sector exempted from regulation produced revenue for London City's chosen ones. By the way, this self-centered policy helped to build a kind of Brexit foundation, constantly being highly critical of cooperation between the European Union and Europe. These are not smart choices; this must not be the way of modern Estonia. The Social Democrats, in the budgetary debates starting in Parliament, advocate that the budget for 2022 will offer the people of Estonia better protection, opportunities for self-development and the knowledge that we live in a community of love and sight, a society that is not purely self-serving, but cooperation, in a country that has its value in the north, not the Wild West, and in which no one is left behind. We stand for a budget that helps make Estonia more caring and happy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U19	And now, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, "Don't talk to me about priorities, but show me your budget!" politicians are often told that actions are more important than words. The government led by Kaja Kallas has now shown its first budget. The Riigikogu can now take over our joint wallet for next year. Having personally participated in the budget negotiations, I can say that the government has done a great deal of work. But there is still a lot of work to be done here in the Riigikogu. I wish you, colleagues, the strength to undertake and to work through the budget thoroughly, just as my good groupmate Aivar Sõerd does every time. To make this easier for you, I will also highlight some of the emphasis you can focus on. First of all, I recall the spring, when the state of public finances seemed rather complicated and complicated. This is because of the corona crisis, but also because the previous Minister of Finance left a billion 'cost savings' in our budget strategy. Which, as Martin Helme himself has admitted, had no substance. It is a difficult time of crisis, but it does not mean that a bluff can be written into a budget strategy. Compared to this situation, the situation is much better. We have 13.1 billion revenue in the public budget and 13.6 billion in expenditure. For this, we must first and foremost thank the people and entrepreneurs of Estonia who have brought our economy back on track. But there is also a role for the government, which has set itself the goal of not leaving empty cuts in the budget, but also of moving forward with the reform of the state and asking whether the crisis will enable us to do something more effectively. Secondly, I would like to stress the efforts made by the government to ensure that medical workers, police officers and teachers working at the forefront of the crisis, as well as other civil servants, receive a decent salary for their grateful work. As early as spring, we were able to propose that, unlike the previous government that frozen the salaries in the RES, we can increase the payroll fund for key areas by 3%. Today, the government has still found resources and, for example, the average wage of teachers will rise by 7.3%, the savers by 12%, the care workers by over 9%, as the Prime Minister said. I would stress that this is a contribution to our people who have worked hard in the crisis and deserve our great thanks for it. 30 years after the restoration of independence, we will make an unprecedented contribution to the state budget so that Estonia is better protected. Next year, defence costs will rise to 2.31% of GDP. Financially, this represents an increase from EUR 645 million to EUR 748 million, or slightly more than EUR 103 million. This increase has also been helped by economic growth. But it is also clear that the security environment around the world is alarming. I hope that the defence of the Estonian state is something in which we will continue to have political consensus here in the Riigikogu, and all political parties can support the development of our defence capabilities. My colleague, Fatherland, also spoke here about the construction of the Estonian external border. That's right! We are also channeling more money to the border than the previous government did. And it is important to note here that, in times of governments formed without the Reform Party, investment in border building has exactly slowed down. Now they're accelerating again. On behalf of the Reform Party, we have repeatedly proposed here in the Riigikogu that the state should make a plan on how to switch to a single Estonian-language education. This year's state budget is the first to see that this plan has indeed begun. Minister of Education Liina Kersna has promised to come to us soon with an action plan for education in Estonian, with a budget of EUR 5 million for its activities. Our pension system... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U21	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U22	Unfortunately, this year our pension system was hit by a severe jolt. In view of this, it is important that the government has taken a fundamental decision that the money released from the destruction of the second pillar for the country will not move us out of the pension system. The average pension will increase to EUR 590 next year, to EUR 652 next year, and there will also be an exemption from average pension income tax, which is a first step towards a simple and fair tax system. Next year, the support of a single-living pensioner will also rise from EUR 115 to EUR 200. This helps those older people who have survived alone and are at the highest risk of poverty according to studies. I am also very pleased that the money devoted to research and development remains at 1% of GDP, as agreed by the political parties of the Riigikogu before the elections. By supporting research and development, we can accelerate the development of our economy, which will return to us in the future in higher wages and pensions, as we see today in the Nordic countries. These are only a few points from the state budget for 2022. We thank the coalition partner and our government delegation, who together have put together a very good budget for 2022 for the Estonian people! Successful discussions for all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U23	Erki Savisaar, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please! Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good Riigikogu! I absolutely disagree with the opposition's criticism here. The draft budget for 2022, which has been handed over by the Government, is not bad. The budget priority is undoubtedly a pension increase first. In the following year, pensioners can count on an average additional amount of EUR 342; two or three times the additional amount is expected in 2023. The allowance for a single-living pensioner will rise from EUR 115 to 200 in the following year. Particular emphasis should be placed on valuing frontier workers in the field of internal security. The minimum wage for rescuers will rise by nearly 12% next year and the pay for police officers working on the front line will rise by nearly 5%. A 5% increase in wages is also expected in other areas, including cultural workers. Teachers who once again raise their wages to the average level in Estonia will not be overlooked either. Of course, the desire is higher and wage growth must continue in the coming years, so that public sector wages remain competitive with the private sector. It is also important for people to be able to travel comfortably by means of public transport. This will cost more than EUR 400 million over the next four years to support bus, train, ship and air traffic. The budget supports the creation of a better living environment through housing reconstruction and measures to dismantle old houses. The distribution programme will continue in the same amount as this year. This is a very popular measure, the interest of applicants is constantly increasing, and there is also the willingness of local authorities to increase their share of the aid. A number of regional plans will be funded in the coming year. I would like to mention here the permanent connection of the Great Strait, the Tallinn ringrail, the topic planning of Harju County mineral resources and the survey of herrings. Through KredEx, as a new measure, the budget is a guarantee service for rural companies that do not have sufficient collateral, a self-paying regional loan for housing cooperatives and a guarantee for the housing loan for rural areas. The income of local governments is increasing and revenue is expected to rise again in 2023. The increase in excise duty on electricity, diesel, special-purpose diesel, natural gas and liquid gas used as heating fuels has been suspended as an important brake on inflation and price increases. Large-scale road construction and maintenance will continue. The construction of Võõbu-Mäo road section is completed by four lines, which is the last section of the new 40-km road between Kose-Mäo. The construction of a special level intersection of the Riga road in Tartu is also continuing to make one of the most dangerous roundabouts safe. Construction works are started on the Pärnu-Uulu section of the new four-line highways. With a view to greening transport and meeting climate objectives, electrification of the existing railway will begin so that by the end of 2024 the electric train can be driven to all major stations. In addition, we expect the completion of six additional electric trains, which are also planned for 2024. The design and construction activities of Rail Baltic also continue. In order to reduce the tax burden on the logistics sector and to maintain the volume of goods and jobs in the sector, excise duties remain at today's level. Waterway charges are reduced by a quarter. In energy, we focus on increasing the share and energy efficiency of renewable energy and ensuring security of supply. To this end, the State will contribute next year to the exploitation of green gas, the renovation and construction of district heating boilers and the remediation of street lighting. We will continue to implement the electric buses project and will start the first pilot project for the deployment of hydrogen in public transport. In order to prevent the spread of the Corona virus, to quickly identify the infected and close contacts, we will ensure good access to testing and we will continue free vaccination. In order to combat mental health problems, we support the development of mental health services and evidence-based prevention activities. Health care workers are expected to increase in the amount of wages agreed in the collective agreement without reducing the availability of necessary medical care and other health services for people. In order to ensure cyber security and information security, more than 4 million euros will be allocated to the area of administration of the Ministry of the Interior. We must constantly improve our cyber security capabilities to protect ourselves from increasingly complex global cyber threats and to combat cybercrime. In protected areas outside the Natura 2000 network or in restricted zones of protected areas, private owners will receive support that they do not receive at present. In conclusion, however, there is a great deal of good news in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U25	We have heard the opinions of all the groups. I'm closing the negotiations. With this, we have exhausted the first point. Thank you, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U26	The Riigikogu will continue its work with the second item on the agenda, which is the important national question "How to get to Estonia without restrictions" initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. discussion. I will introduce you to the procedure for this debate. First we have the presentation of the Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiige for a maximum of 20 minutes; members of the Riigikogu have up to 15 minutes for questions. Then comes Professor Peep Talving, who will present his views for up to 20 minutes. The answer to the questions is 15 minutes again. Then Irja Lutsar, Professor at the Institute of Bio- and Transfer Medicine, University of Tartu, will perform for up to 20 minutes, following questions-answers for up to 15 minutes. And concludes Riigikogu member Andrei Korobenik with a 15-minute presentation, up to 10 minutes for questions-answers. We have also accepted the request from the Centre Party Group that a member of the Riigikogu may submit one question to each of the rapporteurs and, of course, after the presentations, have the opportunity to negotiate when we have the time. When we get there, the Central Party Group's proposal is to extend today's sitting until 14:00. But now let's go to this item. Please contact the Riigikogu Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U27	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members! We are pleased [to make his presentation] of the situation in COVID-19 such an introduction to today's debate on how to reach a restricted society. To begin with, I say so much that Estonia has actually been a relatively mild, relatively liberal country throughout the crisis. Rather, we have different control measures; rather, there are different rules on how to ensure human infection safety, how to control the spread of the virus. Strict restrictions, rules and measures that were necessary during the emergency period and later, when vaccination was not yet available, are not actually applied in Estonia today. But I'm going to get to the bottom of it. If we look at the rates of infection, the number of the last two weeks is 591,88100000 inhabitants. In fact, we can see that the rates of infection are growing in our region as a whole when we look at the Baltics. In other parts of Europe, there is rather a trend towards stabilisation. As of yesterday, 177 people needed hospitalization due to symptomatic COVID-19 disease. A total of 208 patients infected with coronavir were in the hospital, of whom nearly three quarters were unvaccinated. Nearly three-quarters! As of this morning, I know it's hospitalized number 206, so he's in the order of 200 at the moment. We do not see rapid escalation and, of course, as the same number on the wall shows, the more people have been vaccinated, the less people we have in hospital care. So there's a one-to-one very clear connection. Looking at the spread of the disease across different regions of Estonia, we see that the map of Estonia is very uneven. We have counties in western Estonia, but this is also the case in Ida-Viru County, where the level of infection is relatively low, stable, and there are regions, especially south-eastern Estonia, where we have seen a very rapid rise, where we also see a greater burden of hospital care. I will not stop at any longer when hospital care is under pressure, as Professor Talving will give a thorough overview of this. But I say so much in terms of numbers that, of course, it is of key importance that the level of infection in the large counties of Harjumaa, Tartumaa, Pärnu and Ida-Virumaa remains as low as possible. There is inevitably the highest risk of an increase in the number of hospital care patients, simply because of the size of the population and the density of the population. The problems of the South-East Estonia region are managed by the University of Tartu Hospital. Of course, this is a problem in the perspective of the planned provision of hospital care, but in the country, these numbers are still considerably lower than at the peak point of the second wave when we had over 700 patients, 727, if I remember correctly, in hospital care due to COVID-19 disease. I checked the vaccination coverage. In general, there is a clear link between the level of infection and the level of vaccination. Although we know that the primary objective of vaccination is to keep life and health, not so much to reduce infection, it will also help [to do so]. We know that according to different studies, the risk of infection in vaccinees is reduced by between three and four times in size. We can see that the county Hiiumaa with the highest coverage was also the county with the lowest spread of the virus in Estonia. Similarly, the relatively low vaccination coverage of South-East Estonia has actually meant increasing the spread of the virus there. The exception is the county of Ida-Viru, to which I will arrive a little later separately, stopping more broadly at the prevalence of antibodies in society. In the case of Ida-Virumaa, the keyword, which has also passed through the media, is indeed that there has been a greater history of failure with vaccination, I stress, with vaccination, certainly not without it, for many people with sufficiently high levels of antibodies. This has not led to a very rapid spread of the virus. The highlight of the vaccination was, of course, at the end of spring, at the beginning of the summer, when really a great deal of vaccine arrived in the country and there were also a great many unvaccinated people. At the time, this coverage grew rapidly. It can now be said that in the second half of the summer, at the beginning of the autumn, there has been a clearly slower pace, where getting every new person to vaccinate has inevitably required additional efforts. If you remember, in the spring, it was enough that the vaccination times were set up in the digital registry, people were in line, waiting for an opportunity. At the time, we were mostly limited by the vaccine deficit. Today we are in a situation where times are up, but we must work actively to attract people to vaccinate, and this is actually being done across the country. Looking at the coverage indicators, it is positive that higher coverage is among older people. If we have reached about 67% of this at least one-dose vaccination at national level for adults, then in the 60+ age group, the same figure is about 73%. This is the highest in the 70-79 age group, with nearly 77% protected by at least one dose. More work needs to be done with the 80+ age group, where two thirds have been vaccinated, which means that there are actually a number of older people whose protection is a common concern for all of us. And here, too, there are actually quite a difference between counties. It can be said that similar is that older people have higher vaccination numbers than younger ones. But if you look at the county cross-section, there are places where a stable 75-80% level has been achieved in all higher age groups. But there are also counties where it has remained at 50% to 60% and where special attention should be paid to it. I also mentioned earlier that there are free times in the digital registration office in all counties. So if a person wants to go for vaccination, this option will be found in the digital registration office, it will be found on the Vaccination.ee website, it will receive information on 1247 phones, and people will also be helped to find vaccination opportunities by local authorities and regional vaccine coordinators, who we have hired through the Health Insurance Fund in all counties. And there are also important additional activities that I would highlight in achieving greater coverage. Certainly, family doctors have a grateful role to play. They have been the most important actors in the vaccination process, in addition to the hospital network, private partners and other organisations that have provided cooperation. Indeed, under the leadership of family doctors, our goal is for all family doctors to vaccinate everyone, even though the 60+ age group has special attention. We know that a person rather trusts a family doctor; rather, he does not go through the digital registration office to look for that time for himself. Personal counseling, personal summoning is important to a person. And more generally, general practitioners usually offer vaccination to younger people. And it can be said that with the coming autumn, the proportion of family doctors who carry out COVID-19 vaccinations will gradually increase again. In the summer or early summer and at the end of spring, the vaccine was really short and in the meantime there was a period of rest. Now we do not have these concerns and we need to stress that vaccination against COVID-19 is progressing, on the one hand, and that vaccination against influenza, on the other hand, will also be successfully implemented, which will soon begin. As we know, for the first time since October 65+, vaccination against influenza is now available free of charge. Speaking of older people, there's a separate call-out project. In Ida-Virumaa, we started working with the contact centre, with the aim of calling 20,000 older people who have not been vaccinated. It's, you know, a quarter of it, 350 people have arrived to vaccinate. Of course, we'd like that percentage to be higher, but every injection counts. This project is also extended to counties with a lower coverage in other parts of Estonia. Medical students have also come to help with a separate project called "Autumn Plan." Family doctors will be helped to communicate with the still unvaccinated people on their list, providing such well-motivated arguments to dispel people's hesitations so that a positive health-conscious vaccination decision can be reached. Similarly, we offer vaccination at employers' homes. We have the opportunity for employers to turn to the Health Insurance Fund themselves, as well as the coordinators of those who contact directly. Here's some numbers as of a few days ago. Over 420 employers have approached the health insurance fund with this request. A total of 677 employers have been contacted by different coordinators, vaccinees have done so, vaccinations have been carried out at 150+ employers. In the case of relatively small target groups, we have also said that, figuratively speaking, from five people, the vaccineer will arrive. Of course, by one or two people, this is more difficult than the 5, 6 or 10 doses per vial. But we are flexible and we will also find solutions for smaller businesses. The coordinators I referred to earlier will individually contact all employers in their region, with less than 70% coverage at the workplace. And there continues to be a call to employers' umbrella organisations that we offer a lecturer, a vaccineer on the ground, so that in answering questions by having a calm debate, people can be helped to reach a reasonable, health-conscious choice. And, as I referred to earlier, special attention is, of course, to regions with lower coverage and personalised counselling, using the family doctor's advisory line and crisis telephone, using the contribution of the unemployment fund, the SKA, local authorities, all of us. How else to promote vaccination against COVID-19? I wrote down three basic principles here. Vaccination in Estonia is free of charge available to all residents of Estonia and I stress, to all residents, that means that people without health insurance are also free of charge. We see that there is still fear or doubt that some people are not accustomed to accessing medical services. Once again, I am asking you to spread it through the press: whether you are insured or not, vaccination is free of charge. We have sent this information with separate messages, with notifications to uninsured persons, for whom we know that the proportion of non-vaccinated persons is the highest or significantly higher than in other groups. [Option of vaccination] must be available as close to home as possible in each county, either at the family doctor's, at the vaccination station or at the hospital, ideally in all three places and on a voluntary basis. In counties with higher vaccinations, such as Hiiumaa, we have also moved this way so that we can begin to ease restrictions and replace the requirement to wear a mask with a recommendation. This is a clear objective, [meaning] to local residents also [knowing] that the promotion of vaccination can gradually begin to break down the restrictions that can be removed at regional level. Not everyone, of course, is possible. Further, additional support to increase the coverage of vaccination in public and private institutions. I consider it particularly important to support nursing homes and educational establishments. I have also talked to my colleague, the Minister for Social Protection, and the Prime Minister about the fact that I believe that nursing homes need special attention, namely that it is on the state side, on the local government side, on the private sector itself. Just might provide additional financial motivation for people to get vaccinated. We are talking about workers who often tend to inadvertently be the people who bring this disease in unvaccinated. Teacher vaccination is already high in educational establishments today, but there is still room for growth. Events, activities to check COVID certificate. I think Estonia has kept a reasonable balance here. We haven't gone to restrict vital services, we're not going either. People must have access to health care, educational services, [must be allowed] shopping, other such activities. At present, we have established a separate control for leisure activities, entertainment, where a person has a choice as to whether or not he or she participates. It is always possible to participate in a negative test in non-vaccinated individuals. I think this is a reasonable balance. And when we talk about promoting the vaccination of the elderly, we understand that it is not fundamental to establish additional rules for access to events based on the COVID certificate. The main motivator is the protection of life and health, and [here] it is a personal advice approach. As far as higher-risk housing is concerned, the employer has the possibility, on the basis of a risk analysis, to impose different requirements, including vaccination, in accordance with the law. It's health care, it's social work. The Tallinn Ambulance has done this, and I have said it before, and I will stick to the view that it is right. The ambulance carried out a very thorough risk analysis, justifying this need. It is a matter of the functioning of [the authority], of its infection safety, it is also a question of an example. And, in fact, most of the workers in healthcare, of course, are vaccinated. We are talking about a level of 80 to 90% for all hospitals, which is considerably higher among doctors. We have also discussed the subject of further mitigation of restrictions with the Scientific Advisory Board. The Scientific Advisory Panel has said that if 70% of the total population has been vaccinated and 85% of the risk groups, the restrictions could be relaxed or permanently removed. The government has not made any decisions here yet, and now the question is what I am about to reach, that we must not only vaccinate but also, of course, look at the level of antibodies in society at large. Antibodies can also be passed through. The suggestion is, of course, to vaccinate, to pass through it is always a riskier choice, but we also have to take into account that some people have acquired antibodies to the disease. This brings me to the data of the monitoring study carried out by the University of Tartu under Professor Ruth Kalda. We know that about 1% of the total Estonian population is now positive. At the peak, this figure was 4%. The infectious levels are approximately 0.9%, with a peak of 2.7%. I would point out that there is now a situation where we have a more aggressive delta strain than the previous alpha strain and the earlier European strain and the Wuhan strain. In fact, we are in a situation where even though the country is relatively open and the aggressive strain is spreading, the spread of infection in society is low. There is no need to be an immunologist or virologist or scientist at all to understand that this is the effect of vaccination. We see that the level of the virus is about the same as in the spring, and even lower than last February. Although, at the time, as I indicated, there were very strict restrictions compared to the current situation. Well, I've reached the prevalence of antibodies. What we know is that 800000 or more adults have antibodies of some size, because of vaccination, like most of us, or at the cost of the burnout. Some of them overlap. Here on the slides, this dark pink vaccine finishes, the light pink of those who are in the process of vaccination, the dark blue of those who have completed the vaccination in such a way that the disease has been previously nursed and then vaccinated or in a different order, first vaccinated with one dose and then nursed. And then it's a pretty big part of the order of magnitude of 10%, who doesn't know where these antibodies are derived from. [These people have not been vaccinated] and are likely to have suffered from the disease and not tested either as a result of an informed choice or as a result of any circumstances. And then it's in the order of 41⁄2 percent, who's been through, but hasn't been vaccinated yet. In these cases, we know that a positive test is given. If you look at the timeline between the various research waves, the proportion of these people in society decreases for the simple reason that so many of them move into that dark blue or dark pink column. These people have received either one vaccine injection or two injections of the vaccine and thereby increased antibody levels and then moved to the vaccination category or to the first category of victims. The protection of the elderly is very important, as I referred to earlier. If we are looking at precisely the level of antibodies in society, we can see that this is the highest in the 65+ age group. It makes sense, in this sense, that there is a higher level of vaccination among the elderly. But it could be even higher, I agree. The target is certainly to increase this coverage, but as far as antibodies are concerned in adults, which are 76 to 77% based on this study, it is 84% in the 65+ age group. And this study has been done for the second half of September, and actually these numbers are growing every day. The figures are somewhat lower among young people. You could say that, figuratively speaking, my age group and plus-minus ten years have actually been the most passive vaccineer. And this is reflected in this same study. Of course, it's important that every person gets vaccinated. The gender balance is pretty good. Men and women have virtually equal levels of antibodies in society. In the border region, if we look at the level of antibodies now I come to what I referred to earlier, then in Ida-Viru County we can see that coverage with antibodies is actually at the average level of the Estonian state, despite the fact that vaccination there is lower. There are very many people who have suffered from the disease, and it has caused serious health damage when we are talking primarily about the second wave and the period during which the vaccine was not yet widely available. But we can see that now it can be said that the spread of infection is the highest in those counties where antibody levels are also lower, at 70% and below. These are Põlva County, Valga County and Võru County. In those places where the disease has not been extensively cured or sufficiently vaccinated during the second wave, the spread of the virus is the highest today. It is important to read from this bar chart that, in fact, the largest counties of Tartu, Harju county, Ida-Viru county are about the average level in Estonia or even above, which gives confidence that as extensive an escalation as we saw before will probably not come during the third wave. This is likely, however, because it is always possible that new strains will come, new unexpected ones will come, but on the basis of current information, it can be said that the level of protection is quite high across Estonia. This is lower in South-East Estonia and also in Pärnu county, where we see larger distribution numbers and where we need to get more momentum when vaccination is carried out. In fact, the protection of elderly people throughout Estonia improves from day to day. However, I am not tired of repeating that vaccination, of course, is a safer way to obtain these antibodies. When do we get to the opening of society? This is, of course, a key issue in which I very much look forward to Parliament's input, feedback. If we look at numbers simply, Estonia has vaccinated nearly 760000 people in at least one dose as of this morning. This is 57% of the population, including nearly 720,000 adults, or 67% of adults. These numbers grow every day, not as fast as we'd like. I used to point out what these activities were, how to give it a boost. But these numbers are rising. And if we look at the surveillance survey of the University of Tartu that I referred to, those people who have not been vaccinated, but have acquired antibodies by inflammatory means, can have uneven levels, but there is a minimum standard, 14% of adults. In this way, the antibodies have acquired 150,000 people. It is more difficult to assess the presence of antibodies in children. Not known to be vaccinated under 12 years of age, only in exceptional cases. About half of the population in the 12 to 17 age group have been vaccinated. I have discussed this with Professor Lutsar, Head of the Scientific Advisory Panel, Professor Fischer, member of the Scientific Advisory Board, epidemiologists of the Health Board, experts, as well as Professor Kalda, and feedback from all three or four parties, my own estimate being that about 20% of minors are likely to have acquired antibodies. We know that they have been officially tested by 10 to 11 percent. But in the wider population there are a number of [infirms] that have not been tested, and there are probably more of them among minors. We know they don't test so many kids. So this 20% is a rather conservative estimate, actually, this number could be bigger. Now, if we add up these numbers to find out how many people have received antibodies without vaccination, with breakthroughs, we can see that there are 200,000 people in addition to those who have been vaccinated, which means all in all, in the order of 960000 people who have some kind of protection against COVID-19 disease. This protection may be uneven, may be single-dose, two-dose, severed, but these people are not in this category zero. This means that about 70% of the Estonian population has actually achieved a certain level of protection, compared with almost 80% of adults. Now I'm getting back to one of the main numbers. The target has been to achieve vaccination coverage of 70% of the population. Today we can say that with vaccination and penetration we have reached 70%. In my opinion, in order to talk about opening up society, a little more effort is needed. We're in the final stretch. Raising coverage by a few more percent, with a particular focus on risk groups, will actually provide an opportunity to gradually ease these control rules, as well as the restrictions and measures that we have in force today. Here we can all do our part to make sure that people who are still hesitating, who have not yet been vaccinated, do so as soon as possible. My time is up, I thank you and I am happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U28	That's right. The time was over and the members of the Riigikogu now have questions. Begin Indrek Saar.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U29	Thank you, Minister, for this fact-rich, but it seems, in some respects, to be subjective. My question is specific: you promised that in May people aged 80+ would be vaccinated at least 80%. We are about to reach October and this figure is well below 70%. And we know that with these people, there's a risk that they'll end up in a hospital, significant. If they get infected and get hospitalized, almost every other one of them won't come back from there. And those who come out of the hospital have many complications. When we look at the slide of the next waitress, we see that we have a very serious treatment deficit. We are already over the critical limit, which has begun to limit the treatment planned. What have you actually done about it [to avoid] and why have you not been able to vaccinate more people in the 80+ age group?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U30	Thank you for your question. As I referred to earlier, vaccination of the elderly is a priority. As far as this 80% objective is concerned, it is the target set at European level, which I also spoke about at the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, if I am not mistaken. The Commission leader asked where we could get there. I said, there's plenty of vaccine, and given the vaccinators' ability, we can get there by the end of May. Of course, the acceptance of the population itself is important. It is not possible to vaccinate a person who does not wish to vaccinate. It's not possible to vaccinate a person we haven't been able to reach. Today, we have focused vaccination on older people, as I mentioned earlier, with the help of family doctors and family nurses and with the support of local social workers. This is also done in nursing care in different hospitals, as well as in home vaccinations and, of course, in nursing homes. [This concerns] primary and second vaccinations, and we are currently also planning to give efficacy doses when the European Medicines Agency issues a marketing authorisation. This job is on. We have individual counties where we have reached more than 80%, and as an average in Estonia, we are indeed at 67%. I repeat my call to all residents of Estonia: if your parents, grandparents, other older relatives are unvaccinated, help them to get the information they need, help them to make an appointment if this has been an obstacle, or arrange transport. And this call, of course, also applies to local authorities and various actors in the health sector so that older people's inclusion increases. This is, of course, the main aim of reducing the burden of hospital care.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U31	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U32	Thank you, Minister. I think that this question of today, somehow very communicative, gives society a very strange message. We are moving towards the top in terms of infection in the European Union. The third wave is just gaining momentum, not far from the moment hospitals have to limit scheduled treatment. At the same time, members of the government are talking about the possibility of restricting or losing the masking obligation, and we could start discussing how to lift the [absolutely] restrictions. This, in my opinion, creates such a completely unintelligible communicational bizarre. But the question is that we have significant shortcomings in the management of the current epidemic. It's coming out nicely of your data. What are you going to do with a practically and quite weekly plan to make up for these deficiencies so that the vaccine and the vaccinator get together?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U33	Thank you. Actually, I stopped at it. We have the possibility of vaccination in Estonia, we can say, created for everyone. I very much agree that this must now be offered more and more pro-actively, and that is what we are doing. I also described in particular: through family medicine centres, through family nurses, through a separate call centre. Working together at local level with regional coordinators hired by the Health Insurance Fund and employers, as well as with medical students, is precisely these people [to be convinced]. I referred to people without health insurance before. Non-medically insured persons, as we know, are the vast majority of unvaccinated persons, even though it is available to them free of charge. They have received separate messages and other notifications so that they know that the vaccine is available to them free of charge. They have this opportunity and are open to them. So these are the places where special attention can be paid. It is, of course, important to advise loved ones in nursing homes, as well as to organise information days at workplaces. The circle of these activities is quite wide. So I certainly do not agree with this criticism in this respect. The Estonian state and health care system have worked very hard to ensure that coverage is as large as possible to increase. And this job goes on. The contribution of all parliamentary parties is also welcome here, so that their voters and all Estonian residents are invited to go to vaccination. We know that some parties have done so, all unfortunately not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U34	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There are undoubtedly people who have been vaccinated and who have had different side effects since then and who will certainly find the vaccine guilty. That's my question. As we know, our Prime Minister is always here in Question Time saying that if you have any problems, you should go to court. And now I want to ask a lot of questions that have been put to me: who do we have to choose in court as the opposite: the injecter, the Medicines Agency, the Ministry of Social Affairs, or the Pfizer company, for example? However, it is known that Pfizer's company assumes no responsibility for any side effects. Please say as a specialist in this area, specifically whom we have to sue from the list that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U36	Thank you for your question. First, if a person has any concerns about the side effects of vaccination, it is possible to inform the Agency. This has also been done, this information is collected across Estonia and is also forwarded to the European Medicines Agency, which communicates directly with producers. The state of Estonia also provides this information and constantly exchanges its knowledge with other countries. If a person has specific complaints to the health care provider, it is, of course, possible to appeal against him, for example, to the Health Board in terms of supervision, if something has been done wrong on the ground. But Estonian health institutions are generally very professional, and health professionals are also professional. So these are all the exceptional cases you're talking about. When we are talking about serious problems, we know that it is precisely the COVID-19 disease that has led to more than 1300 people in Estonia, and the further damage to health has been caused by the epidemic to many people who have not received scheduled or other treatments in time, for example, have had to postpone some of the operations. Actually, the center of gravity is there. I think that, of course, in the parliamentary debate, the debate on the side effects of vaccination is also welcome; it has also been held at European level, at the level of health experts. But this [area] is subject to very strict control requirements and I do not think that the whole centre of gravity should be shifted there. For people, my recommendation is to be afraid of the virus and the disease, not of a vaccine that has been authorised and has undergone extensive research. And if there are any concerns, the Health Board and the Agency are the first places to turn. Of course, it will be possible for a person to claim a right later in court if he or she feels that his or her complaint has not been dealt with seriously enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U37	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U38	Mr Minister, you are going to be distrusted and, in my opinion, one thing that makes it easy is that you are going to be hogging your views in a way that burys the message, which makes you an official rather than a politician, and also puts all the responsibility for the technical details on your shoulders. You, in turn, have shifted this responsibility to senior officials. But I intend to protect you from this mistrust, I admit. Unfortunately, I have this problem that, in general criticism, I cannot defend you indiscriminately. I have this protection optional, [there is also a small criticism]. Please tell me if you admit something has gone wrong in the order of vaccination!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U39	Thank you. Of course I will. From the beginning, some things have been done differently in the form of hindsight. In the case of vaccines, we didn't know who was the first to get a marketing authorisation, who was the second, who was the third. This is the kind of place where many countries think that at that time we made agreements with everyone to diversify the risks, and today ex post would be done by those who first received a marketing authorisation who have the most effective vaccines on the basis of the studies. That's the hindsight you can't start with. These are things that could have been done better. I also think the Ministry of Social Affairs took on too much of this process from the start. Of course, the ministry, the health sector, will play a leading role, but afterwards it could be said that it should have been better anticipated by now. The private sector should have been more involved and other public authorities, other ministries, other areas of government, local authorities should have been more involved. Vaccination was approached, as was the only health challenge. I agree with this criticism. In fact, it is a matter of society as a whole, of society as a whole, and now that we have gradually stepped up cooperation with the private sector and other public authorities, it can be said that many [solutions] have made a new move, but these things should have been done sooner. That is a criticism that I am sure to accept. As far as this official or politician's role is concerned, as Minister of Health, I personally feel that the challenge of vaccination is not a political challenge. That's my point of view. That is the challenge of the whole country, the challenge of society as a whole, the cross-party challenge. It's a health challenge. It is a health awareness issue; it is a health education issue. For me, it's a bit like foreign policy and defence. It should be a place where all political parties give a single message, keep one line, contribute to the process, not seek opportunities for political shows before the local elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U40	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U41	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Krista Fischer, an academician, also pointed out that certain terms or records have been changed for statistics. Now the expression "symptomatic COVID patients" has emerged, and this actually complicates comparison. Why was it necessary to change the records? It doesn't give you very good opportunities to design the right picture. And the second question: since the next performer is more likely to talk about the state of the North Estonian Regional Hospital, how many and what hospitals have specialized care been brought together?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U42	Thank you. I'll start at the beginning. We're actually giving out numbers both ways. Because of COVID-19, as I referred to earlier, 177 people were in need of hospital care, but there were a total of 208 patients infected with the virus. The logic is that if there is a patient in the hospital who has other health concerns, but has also received this virus, but does not actually have its symptoms, he is, on the one hand, a patient in the COVID-19 and is treated exactly that way in terms of infection safety, but he does not need specific treatment for COVID-19. The proportion of such people is also increasing because we have more and more people vaccinated. If a person has passed the vaccination course and has other health concerns, he or she may have a "slighter' infection with no symptoms. Well, this change in terms has been a lot of time-related and a change in the situation, but we'll let you know both of these numbers. Anyone who wants can compare one who wants one can compare the other. That 208 was yesterday, it's 206 today. It could be said that at the peak of spring it was 727. The other half: hospitalization. Of course, Professor Talving also gives a broader overview. The University of Tartu Hospital has really had to replay [the treatment plan], reduce the planned treatment, but that does not mean that it will be quite closed down. It's just that the reception's being reduced. Right now, the clinic is the hardest part. Some changes are also made by East Tallinn Central Hospital. Rather, general hospitals have made fewer changes, as COVID-19 patients are usually directed to centres, regional and central hospitals, not local ones. As you have observed, most of the people currently in hospitals in Estonia are not COVID-19 patients. There was a monster in Valga Hospital, which may have temporarily restricted a certain service on site. I don't dare say it by heart, but I've been in contact with the hospital manager and I think the situation is under control. I'm done with that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U43	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U44	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have one question and one comment. The question is about Ida-Viru County. There's an anomaly. If we compare data on how many people are infected and how few are vaccinated, it's inversely proportional. That's what your slides 3 and 4 show. From the point of view of vaccination, Ida-Viru County is at its worst, but one of the best in terms of infection. Does this have to do with the fact that during the first wave there was one of the worst in the islands and in Western Estonia as well? That was a question. But the remark is partly related to what Jürgen Ligi said. That's what these tables are to see something from them. But if we look at the tables on slides 6 and 7, there's nothing to see. I didn't see it on the screen. I did the same thing. If you add your very good pace of speech, it will be very difficult for a retard like me to follow your presentation in a picture and word.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U45	Thank you. All these slides can be sent to you electronically, they are available to the Riigikogu. They can then be viewed calmly on the computer and given special attention to suitable slides. And I'm sure you can ask me separately if there are any places that are of particular interest. For Ida-Virumaa, yes, it can be said that about three quarters of the inhabitants of Ida-Virumaa have certain antibodies, according to a monitoring study by the University of Tartu, and from this three-quarters, to say the least, two-thirds have received them by vaccination, but one-third have suffered from this disease. During both the first and second waves, the prevalence and burden on the health care system in Ida-Viru County were actually high, but by this the level of protection there in the third wave is about the same as in the Estonian country on average.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U46	Good Minister, the appointment with you has just come to an end or is about to be over, so thank you for answering your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U48	That's right. The agreed time was 20 + 15 minutes and this time was now over. Now we're waiting for Professor Peep Talving. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U49	Honourable Riigikogu Board! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank the Centre Party for initiating this debate and inviting me here today. These questions, which I was asked to cover, were the following: an overview of COVID-19 disease, asked for a brief presentation of the overall picture; the limit of tolerance of HVA hospitals at maximum load, if no restrictions apply; the extent to which scheduled treatment has suffered according to current data in 2021. I built my report as follows. First I take a short look at the second wave, then I take a third wave, then I talk about the treatment deficit in the first half of the year, for which we have the data, and finally there is a summary and questions-answers in 15 minutes. It all started here. [[Show slides.]] On December 8, the province of Wuhanis Hubei began to develop strange pneumonias, pneumonias. A strange disease, no one recognized it, seemed contagious. There was no good seeding result, which could be said to be bacterial pneumonia, and these cases increased. As you can see from the slide, their number increased by 500 every day. People were a little panicked, coughed, but there was no diagnosis. Molecular diagnostics were triggered at the beginning of January when the virus was sequenced and laboratory diagnosis was also developed. Then it got easier in the sense that there was now a diagnosis that should begin to cure the disease. Since the holidays were then held in Wuhan and were extended, the so-called hammer effect arose: the decrease in contacts brought the incidence of infectious disease to a lower level. You can see from the yellow columns how it's going to go down quietly. Now, the phylogenetic development of this virus has been very varied. We see on the top slide on the left below Wuhan's original strain, which has developed a lot of mutations. These are alpha, beta, gamma and delta strains we all know. Alpha is a British virus that affected the second wave badly, beta is a South African strain, a gamma is a Brazilian strain that has come here and almost could be said to stay. It's relatively difficult to win because it's a highly contagious viral disease, almost like chickenpox. The head of the CDC in America said that this aerosol infection could be as easy to get if someone was burning smoke in the house and you could smell it. Similarly, the aerosol can reach you if there is a super-infector, a person with a high "viral load'in the house or in an apartment. We see four trunks. And we can see on the bottom slide how the delta strain has taken over the Wuhan strain. The green shows the current so-called market share, which is covered by the delta as a whole. The role of masks. There's been a lot of talk about this. Obviously, the role of masks, as we say in medicine, is primary control. I'm sick, I'm coughing, I'm releasing drops, I'm releasing aerosols. It can be limited, protected by masks. Obviously, it's not a silver bullet. Aerosols fly around, stay in the hair, I touch my head with my hand, then I touch my lips, and that's how it moves. Similarly, the virus spreads through the eyes: through tear ducts it moves into the upper airways, down into the lower airways. So there's a lot of ways to get infected. The right-hand picture shows a virus that attaches to certain receptors in the upper respiratory tract. These are ACE2 receptors, which we have abundantly in our airways. From there, the virus moves down into the airways and causes pneumonia. If we look at the temporal aspect, the average time to symptomatic is five days after the exhibit. Cough, fever, weakness, loss of appetite, muscle aches and diarrhoea. On the seventh day after the onset of [first] symptoms, 40% of people develop certain respiratory insufficiency, or respiratory failure, which may be related to coughing and shortness of breath. 14% get a serious illness, they go to hospital, and 5% get a critically serious condition. If we look at where the main effect of the disease occurs, it's in the alveoli. Alveols are the final stations of our bronchial tree, where the gas exchange takes place. Carbon dioxide must move away from the bloodstream into the alveol, on the other hand, oxygen comes from the alveol into the blood vessels and there is a gas exchange. If you look at this right-hand picture, the whole alveol, or the final terminal, is shown here, and the inflamed alveol is shown on the right-hand side, where carbon dioxide no longer moves over the alveol and oxygen does not move back into the blood vessels, and there is a proper barrier: the lung develops bypass and oxygenation, and the carbon dioxide output is interrupted. If we look at the image of the CT scan ♪ these are the axial images of our imaging that we use every day, then we can see a completely intact chest image under A. The whole lung, nicely absconded, no pneumonia lesions. B indicates where local lesions are formed in both lungs. C shows what is called matt glass eclipse: bilateral or bilateral pneumonia. C shows the critical lung damage where injuries occur. This patient is ventilated by mechanical ventilation, high pressure to oxygenate, deliver oxygen and vent carbon dioxide. The lung will be damaged and it will no longer be stretchable, it will be difficult to ventilate. And there are hardly any other organs that [are not or] capable of damaging the virus either primarily or indirectly. Let's look back at the other wave. What Did We Learn? What was our situation? We all recognize that three-hump wave. In fact, the first hump was the Wuhani strain that came back, but the British strain took it over forcefully at the end of last year. And now we see the third wave that's slowly coming up and coming up. The most difficult time in hospitals was the beginning of April 2020. We had 727 general care beds occupied in HVA hospitals. The intense stress of intensive care came a little later. It is still the case that the patients get hospitalized, pass a week, the disease progresses, and people need intensive care. Looking at our tables, there was a peak of 197 patients in the southern region, where there was no epicenter during the second wave, and in the northern region, the epicenter, there were 435 beds filled with COVID patients. The numbers of intensive care were 25 sick in the southern region and 41 in the northern region. And these numbers got even bigger after a few weeks. When we look at intensive care bed occupancy at North Estonia Regional Hospital, we see the peak in mid-April, which is a certain shift from the highest number of regular beds. In the North Estonian Regional Hospital, two intensive care departments were fully booked for COVID treatment only, which means that 50% of intensive care in the regional hospital was booked for pandemic patients. In addition, there was one intensive care [unit] that served scheduled treatment, and one intensive care [unit] that served cardiointensance: heart attacks, etc. It was the pressure we were under during the second wave. The obvious thing is that tertiary intensive care is extremely expensive - extremely expensive! And it turns out to be the neck of a bottle if the third wave should roll on us now. We've raised our capabilities. Estonia had 239 or 240 fans. The fan can only be used in 3rd degree intensive care beds under normal conditions. Using framework contracts, 75 very modern fans were acquired: 50 Hamilton-C6 fans and Maquet fans used by the clinic were acquired in the southern headquarters area 25. In total, we have 315 good fans that can help a lot of sick people, but there must, of course, be people who are competent to ventilate the sick. So this number alone doesn't say anything. There's gonna be a lot of sisters in there. ECMO, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, is the last treatment to be applied to prospective patients. And the ECMO capacity has also increased during the second wave. We have ten ECMO machines in Estonia: five in North Estonia Regional Hospital and five in Tartu University Hospital. If you look at the picture on the left, it will show you in a schematic way how the ECMO works. Canylate the thigh vein, canylate the vein on the neck. Blood is removed from the retina, oxygenated in the machine, or oxygenated, and returned to the systemic circulation through a vein. Here you can see one sick person with a hose displayed on his neck that brings well-saturated, right-colored blood to a doctor is the right color for the blood that comes back and goes into the body. Now, in the background of all this, there have been other activities, including other diseases. And thanks to this enhancement of the ECMO capability, we have also gained very large jobs in transplants. Here is an example of how an Estonian patient was taken to Finland, University of Helsinki hospital for the first time in history with the ECMO for heart transplant, which was very successful. If we look forward to the third wave, we have reworked the matrix with the Scientific Advisory Board and the Health Board, this matrix has been adapted to Estonian data. We see green, we see yellow, we see orange, and we see red. The second-wave journey is also displayed here. You see that circle that comes back from red, it was two months in red and it's coming down. And then there's one point on yellow, which is the current moment of the third wave. Same picture for a few days: we're moving slowly from yellow to orange. And we've now established hospital tolerance limits to maintain scheduled treatment. Where should the scheduled treatment be limited according to these colours? Measures must be adapted accordingly. Green Zone, 100 COVID- sick hospital network development plan in hospitals, we can do it. We can provide all planned treatment for 100 patients, although there are currently 91 infection beds in Estonia. But with 100 patients, we'll be fine, and we'll be able to do more if we propulse the cure carefully. Most treatments take place in infection hospitals in the green zone. We have four infection hospitals in Estonia: University of Tartu Hospital, Ida-Viru Central Hospital, West Tallinn Central Hospital and Pärnu Hospital. These four hospitals have booked infected beds in the infected hospital, but others can take over if they have isolation capacity. In the green zone, we'll be able to handle the scheduled treatment in third grade intensive care if we're up to 20 sick. In the yellow zone, we have 100-300 COVID patients who need active isolation in HVA hospitals. Regional and central hospitals are currently profusing their bed funds in this situation. In intensive care units of 3rd degree, there can be 20/30 patients and scheduled inpatient treatment should begin to be slightly restricted. Currently, the University of Tartu Hospital, which has been the epicenter's leading hospital, has been profiltrating many beds, but there has not yet been a massive restriction. The East Tallinn Central Hospital, which opened 29 such beds last week, has limited the number of beds for gastroenterology, cardiology and internal diseases. So a small restriction of scheduled treatment is already coming in the middle of the yellow zone, and if progress occurs, it will also progress. In the orange zone, we have 300-600 COVID patients scheduled for HVA hospitals. All hospitals in HVA are going to reprofil their beds, there are 30 to 50 patients in intensive care, and scheduled inpatient treatment will definitely be limited to a good amount already. And then, 600 or more hurt is the red zone. Then we'll definitely have a profiled 20 to 30 in the regular department. A third degree of intensive care is expected to be in the range of 50 to 80 and the planned inpatient treatment will be limited to 10 to 25% of the volume. Now for the heal deficiency. The treatment deficit in the first half of the year is taken together at half a year's end and we carefully reviewed the treatment deficit in hospitals. The names of the hospitals and the SOUTH and LAUGHTER, or Southern Medical Headquarters, and Northern Medical Headquarters, together, are in the left column. The next column is the treatment events planned in the Health Insurance Fund contract, these are people, these are treatment cases. And then there's the insurance contract, including the COVID treatments, the COVID treatments separately. The next column is actually planned for non-COVID cases that were made, and then is the percentage that was made, and finally red is displayed as a deficit: sick numbers and below is the sum. If we start looking, 96318 cases in the half-year are a contract for HVA hospitals, if you multiply it by two, it will give the circa 200,000 treatments per year. It was done on the background of these pandemic waves, i.e. 78% on the background of the second wave. Since the epicenter was in Northern Estonia, there is a greater minus in the north, there we did 74%, in the south 83%. And now the numbers. When we look at it, we see that 21642 people, our neighbor, our friend, our parent, a family member, were not treated. Obviously, if we look to the future, we have to think about the fact that vaccination simply has to happen, it has to reach everywhere, so that we do not have any further effects due to the restriction of scheduled treatment. We all remember the potential scenarios of mass sufferers. Luckily, not much happened. We lost lives, but not among the ones that could have happened. If we were just thinking about this town hall show Fortunately, the burning of the nursing home did not happen much, nor did the social services house and the explosion of Tartu when four people came to the burning centre at the North Estonian Regional Hospital. Three people were well treated and prescribed. To sum it up. I think that in the context of the current vaccination, the hospital load is going to be a little lower than it was in the second wave, but we're going to have a longer wave. Unbound for emergency care in the Estonian hospital network. There are approximately 350000 visits to Estonian HVA hospitals per year. Not everyone needs major hospital ERs, but that's the number: 350,000. We have scheduled treatment, the number of treatment cases should be circa 200,000 per year, which we need to ensure. We can push things forward, yes, we can, but in the end, it all accumulates. And we must be guaranteed disaster preparedness. Must be guaranteed! So much for the training of nursing personnel that we have an order each year for about 500, namely 517 or 518 nursing places. The nurses who stop will, of course, decide whether to go to HVA hospitals, either to go to the family doctor's system or to go to private medicine. And HVA hospitals are losing a lot of nurses. Let's say 500 nurses come to 220 or 250 HVA hospitals carrying this heavy burden when society is in crisis. I'm not saying there's no need for nurses anywhere else, for God's sake, the only thing [we need] is that HVA hospitals get a proper loss [partly]. And holidays must be guaranteed, as must continuing training and the ability to make conservation and new investments. Planned treatment can be guaranteed 100% if we are ill with up to 150 general rooms and if we have up to 20 intensive care patients. With continued waves, the deficit accumulates. And vaccination is the key. This is not absolutely news to you, but I would really like all members of the Riigikogu to take their constituents to the announcement that the deficit [grows], our neighbours, our families, our relatives, all people will lose access to treatment if we do not vaccinate ourselves more widely. And with that, I thank you and I'm ready for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U50	Thank you, Professor Talving, for a very meaningful presentation. Members of the Riigikogu do indeed have questions for you. Start Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor, Thank you very much for this presentation. Over the last 1.5 years, we have seen a very intense collision between laymen and professionals. This has always been the case over time, and these situations have been resolved, but the consequences of this collision have never been as tangible for people's life and health as they have now been in the last time, which you perfectly described with your numbers and examples. As a professional, a high-level professional, what can you recommend to those people who may not have much altruism about other people and who are talking about spreading stories about not going to vaccinate, everything goes by itself? What would help?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U52	Thank you for your question. Well, as our professionals, we've made a serious contribution to communication. We've really been betting on communication. Communication people keep taking these messages out, all the time! We have spoken at the ERR, as well as on the newspaper columns. However, it does not seem to reach people who have another conviction. Do you want to go in with the people, send the commissioners to talk? I have heard that people who have gone to the communities to advise people have, frankly, been pushed out of those doors. Some communities didn't want to hear anything. I've heard in several counties that when we sent a man there to talk, he wasn't accepted. So I think there's a pretty good problem with the cohesion of our society. There are people who understand, and people who don't want to understand, even though they have the ability to understand. But I don't have a silver bullet. We need to continue this communication, find these people. Really, this treatment deficit reaches all the families, and then maybe they're starting to realize that it was my neighbor who could have lived a better life than I would have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U53	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U54	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'm trying to fit two questions in here in a minute. I totally agree with the key to the vaccination. I would like to ask what is the current situation among people with medical backgrounds. What is the understanding: could the dose of effectiveness be started when possible? The second question concerns the effects of COVID on human health. Those people who survive the disease and, for example, are coming out intensely, how would you describe their situation or what are the long-term neurological effects you have seen over the last year and a half? What does COVID do to human health if you suffer from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U55	Thank you for your question. I think that the issue of efficiency doses is very clear for health-care people, say, people with professional awareness. We're ready for efficiency doses. It's the same with supplemental doses. We are already making additional doses for people who, for example, have a heart transplant or who have received a bone marrow stem cell. We're already making them. But the dose of effectiveness for all of us, the people at the front line and the health professionals, I think we're ready for it. We know from research that the immune system is getting a little tired and unable to sustain these antibodies. We must have a very decent archive of different antibodies and simply the system will not withstand the entire amount of antibodies. That's why our corona antibodies cancel out the same way. So I think that, if the EMA, or the European Medicines Agency, is authorised, then health professionals are completely ready for the third dose. The second question was long COVID, or long-term COVID, and its impact on people. In the North Estonian medical system, we have created a separate reception for the neurology of the Western Tallinn Central Hospital, where people with post-COVID go. Really, it's a devastating disease. Some people don't understand, but a lot of people feel tired, powerless, even young people. I have people around my family who are young, strong, healthy, but they can't get better. They no longer have the strength and stamina that was before. That, too, must be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U56	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U57	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your excellent performance. But there's a lot of younger people here, or people in full force, saying why the fuck would I have to give myself a shot of poison, so nothing's gonna happen to me anyway. Statistics show that over 80% of those who die in corona are over 70 years old. And my question is: what would happen if [younger] did not vaccinate and [vaccine] only those older people? Would the mortality rate be reduced? And what would be the sufferings other than dying, which may not be so accurately reflected? You referred to fatigue and loss of ability. And as a doctor, what does the death of COVID look like? Is there a blue face? A little enlightenment!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U58	Thank you. COVID's death is due to multiple organ failure. He comes because of low oxygen levels, kidneys fail, other organs fail. It's multiple organ failure. And eventually, the heart stops when the heart cells don't get enough oxygen. Vaccination of older people is a priority because these people get to the hospital. If I understood your question correctly, if we didn't vaccinate them, we know what would happen. These people get to hospitals, and unfortunately, these people die in hospitals, too, in a pretty high proportion. And I think that's what we have to go on with. I think I answered your questions more or less. If you have any further questions, please ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U59	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you very much for a very meaningful presentation and a thought-provoking presentation. My message to colleagues and to more than 10,000 candidates in the local government elections is: ask them who you are campaigning for, as the first question, whether you have been vaccinated. Mr Professor also said that vaccination is important and we do not have the point of blaming the Minister or anyone if we are working back here. But my question is, when can we get rid of these restrictions? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U61	Yes, Sweden and Denmark, all restrictions will be lifted. And for that, we know the numbers: the whole nation, the minimum of 70% or 80%, and the risk groups 85.90%. And then we can start reducing the restrictions. But, yeah, it's a two-way thing, isn't it? Society must move forward, lives must live qualitatively and with dignity for those who are not involved in COVID. And then we have to keep these delicate, fragile groups. So I think the restrictions can be lifted if we have enough people vaccinated. Before we can do this, we can't do it for good because the disease stays here, the virus finds those lesions where people have not been vaccinated. We can deny it, we can look somewhere else, he'll find everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U62	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U63	Thank you. At the end of your report, you said that vaccination is the key to giving us our freedom back and we can lift the restrictions. I think you're very right. If we look at the news from Norway from the day before yesterday, what are we talking about? This key is what was still under the question today: there are 91% of people vaccinated there. That's very eloquent. Instead, my question concerns those people who have fought very intensively over the last 1.5 years for the health and lives of our people. Do we have enough of these people to go on, and how will they endure? These have been very difficult years for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U64	Thank you for a very good question. The system doesn't work without people. We have tried to support people [to support], the health fund's measures have, to some extent, compensated for [this pain] by paying a tariff of 1.5 to people who have worked with COVID's sick people. It has been, I would say, a minimum with which to support these people. But this resource is limited and they get tired. We've given vacations all year round so everyone can rest, and luckily in the summer, the COVID background was a little weaker and people have been resting. But this, I would say, an aversion, fatigue, mental fatigue is everywhere. I run the Northern Medical Command, I'm surrounded by ten hospital leaders, and I don't see any crazy enthusiasm: a new wave, so great, let's do it, let's escalate! It's not there. It doesn't exist! People are tired, they see their hospital revenues falling, they see that the planned treatment is severely limited. How long can we do this? We can, but we have a much better method: vaccinate yourself, people, because otherwise your siblings, family members will not be treated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U65	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U66	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Talving, thank you very much for this very impressive presentation and for all the work you have done. I'm interested in the number that you pointed out: that there are 2,642 delayed treatment cases or unsubstantiated treatment cases. In how many of these delayed treatments can there be significant complications, a decrease in quality of life? Do you have any methodology or experience to evaluate how many of these delayed cases become acute [health problems], which then require immediate treatment? Maybe you can give me some of that kind of identification.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U67	Thank you, Professor Sutrop, for the question. This, let's say, elective patient, such as a patient who needs heart surgery or an orthopedic patient, usually gets into the ER when he can't take it anymore. During these waves, we've done it because all the working groups have prioritised their sick. Every oncological patient will be screened, including a surgical patient. We actually did full-time chemotherapy and more, we didn't limit anything there. But we're talking about inpatient surgery. If there is no room in the intensive care room, but the patient needs to be in intensive care for a few days to become stable after the surgery and go to the regular department, and if there are no places there, we can't take in the sick. That's the dilemma. We've given all the sick people a very specific priority. And what I'd say is, these sick people get a cure, only there's a timeline. Now, by looking at excess mortality as such, we have seen excess mortality. We saw it last year, we saw it this summer. But then we looked at all the data at the Institute for Health Development and saw that the excess mortality was not related to COVID, it was related to all other diseases. We had two heads: when there was a heat wave and they were common deaths. It has not reached me [has], I do not have good statistics, but I listen every morning to the reports on whether any delayed treatment has come to the ER. There aren't too many drivers. So we have pretty well selected those who have needed treatment. Those with a lower priority have not so often reached the EMO. But I don't have the exact data. Maybe we can take them out if we're looking for this target.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U68	And now a quick question and a quick answer. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U69	Thank you. The immune system is already triggered by the first injection, and once you have received the first injection, it will definitely trigger a person to come a second time. However, Estonia chose a path where it quite stubbornly reserved the injection for a second wave or for a second time, and it seemed as if it created supplies that were not needed. Everybody didn't do that. Please tell me, was this a very unanimous and firm decision in the scientific council's view, and did it seem right afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U70	Good question! That's a good question! When we look at the KoroSero scans, the first dose gives a pretty okay immune response. And so many countries did that, they did the first injection, and then they thought, "Let's see what happens afterwards, we'll get those shots." And we may have a reason to look in the mirror here. Maybe we should have given all the first doses as much as we had in stock and hoped that supplies would come in. But this knowledge comes in the course of a pandemic, we haven't had knowledge since the beginning, and these supplies were so intermittent. But there's a point in that statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U71	Dear Professor, Head of North Estonian Regional Hospital Peep Talving, thank you very much for your presentation, for your answers. Thank you very much. A lot of strength for you in your work! I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Professor Irja Lutsari, Head of the Scientific Advisory Board, Institute of Bio- and Transfer Medicine of the University of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U72	Good afternoon. It's five minutes past 12. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm very happy. The last time we met here was a year ago, the situation was different, and maybe the thoughts were different. I understand that Professor Talving has already answered some of the questions, but the subject of my presentation is a restricted Estonia, how to get to it. In the world today, these are not today's data; these are last week's data, 223 million cases, 4.6 million dead. And what you might notice maybe when you look at both the left and the right slide: it is probably the fourth wave, because the first wave remained as if poorly registered. But if you look at this right-hand slide, where there are deaths, if you look at it, you will see that very clearly during this wave, the proportion of deaths is less than in previous waves. And this is probably because of the high level of vaccination in a large number of countries. While some countries were talking about zero tolerance a year ago, zero tolerance is unlikely to be achieved. The virus is not disappearing from the world. Here are a few countries that are zero-tolerance countries. One is Australia, the other is Vietnam. Vietnam lasted a very, very long time, but now there is also an increase in infection in Vietnam, in Australia there is an increase in infection. What is happening in China is obviously not catch-up. There are indeed isolated cases in China a day, there are very few days when there are 100 cases, but China is also very strictly stuck. Whoever read the news of the Olympic Games, 21 days is quarantined in China. That's how long you have to stay at the country's quarantine hotel, not at home. So that's probably not feasible. Most countries and most articles no longer talk about zero tolerance, but rather talk about living with the virus. When we talk about relaxing restrictions, let us look back a little bit about why these restrictions were needed at all. There are also criteria for placing restrictions. This is a serious infectious disease with high mortality rates, which spread rapidly and widely and more importantly: which lacks treatment and [safe] prevention [option]. If one of these conditions changes during the pandemic, the restrictions may also be lifted, and I will now go to it in a little more detail. Are we dealing with a serious illness? Let us answer this question first. This slide has the structure of COVID patients in Estonia. All those written down are over 140,000 today. And you can see that most of these patients have been treated outpatiently and that only 6% of the patients we have written down have been hospitalized. Estonia's peculiarity is also that we have very few sick dead outside the hospital. This is not the case in all countries. In some countries, those who are already in the final phase of their lives are no longer hospitalized with COVID. But we have 0.01% dead outpatient. And now let's see what happens to those people who come to the hospital. A large majority of them, just over 85% going out of the hospital alive. That doesn't necessarily mean they're going out healthy, but 13.5% of them are dead. Currently, Estonia has a relatively low level of COVID mortality, with a mortality rate of 1%. Let's continue to see what the treatment used in the hospital is. About 10% of the patients will be in tertiary intensive care, which Professor Talving has already told you about. And half of them, in turn, require mechanical ventilation of the lungs. The rest of the patients I've put in the category "conventional care," but that also means first and second degree intensive care, oxygen therapy. This standard of care is also a rather serious treatment. No COVID is definitely a disease of older people. I just looked at one of my first slides I had made yesterday, and it already said it was an illness for older people. That's what we've known since the outbreak started. But this slide also shows very well that it is primarily the disease of older men. I draw your attention to this right-hand picture, dark blue columns are men, light blue women. Women have to get to the hospital... Well, maybe it doesn't really matter if we get to the hospital, but if we look at the mortality rate, this mortality rate really quickly goes up from the age of 60, 70, and especially the age of 80. You can see from here that a man over 80 who gets hospitalized is twice as likely to die as a woman his age. Why the male sex is so vulnerable, the question is not yet very clear, and why it is at this age. I've also watched the death rate in September. Today, the average age of our dead is 83 years. If we put it on today, it'll be 84 years. But the average age of the dead in Estonia is 78 years. So it's like very old people's disease. Is COVID a very serious infectious disease? Yes, it is. If we compare it to the flu, the estimated mortality of the infection is 0.3. We can't calculate this on the flu because everyone has antibodies against the flu. But the hospital death rate, if we may want to compare with the flu, is 13.5% for the corona virus or COVID, 11⁄2% for the pandemic influenza. So it's almost ten times the hospital death rate. It can be compared. And COVID is primarily a disease for older people, and flu is a disease for children and young people. Now, is COVID highly contagious? Here's the answer, yes. The R0 number shall be calculated for this [to be reported]. At first, when the COVID came, he wasn't very contagious. R0 was on 2 or 3 and then we talked about herd immunity or population immunity at 70%. Population immunity depends on this R0. But then new strains began to come. First came the alpha strain with R0 of 4, 5, on the current delta strain of 5,8. So it seems that the corona virus itself's strategy, the corona virus, has a strategy, not only do we have a strategy, but it is built on a faster spread. Now, when the next strain comes, it has to spread better than the delta strain. There's nothing on the horizon right now. Everyone's looking very closely, but all the Greek letters we've learned are lambda, mu, theta, no one can take over this delta strain virus right now. The experts disagree. There are experts who think that the virus has taken advantage of its potential and maybe there are no new strains, but there are experts who disagree. Now, the question is, how many of us should be immune. I would like to say right now that the presence of antibodies and immunity are not exactly the same. For this deltoid coronavirus strain and for the current vaccines, immunity of the herd or population is unlikely to be achieved. In the case of Delta strain, this should be 80 to 88% immune. We can even achieve that 80 to 88% of people have antibodies, but we can already see that people who have antibodies are still infected. So we're waiting for better vaccines to come. Rather, we are talking about individual immunity, the presence of antibodies, and that everyone must take care of themselves. We have proposed in the scientific council that 70% of the population should be fully vaccinated. Then we could start thinking that we could eliminate the restrictions. How did we get this number? That's $940,000. This includes children who currently cannot be vaccinated, and includes people who have immunity, who have not been vaccinated, but who have had the disease. A person against nature has never succeeded, and suffering gives a very good immunity. We are now convinced of that. Maybe it wasn't that clear at first. About 5% are people who are basically anti-vaccine. That is what we must bear in mind. And Professor Talving has already said that immunity will decrease over time and that efficacy doses may at least be necessary for certain groups of the population. If we're trying to answer the question of whether immunity decreases over time, yes. The Israeli data and the Israeli vaccination scheme, which has been injected very slightly, show this. This is what Mr Ligi has already referred to here. We have to keep that in mind. But if you look, then the first two columns, that's these PCR positives with mild symptoms. Yes, in these cases, the effectiveness of the vaccines will fall, but if you look at the last two lines of serious illness and hospitalized people, even in Israel and even this summer, the effectiveness of the vaccines is still very, very good. 80% is a very good vaccine effectiveness. And who likes to watch pictures more, that picture actually tells the same thing. You can see that there are milder infections on your left and heavier infections on your right, and different vaccines and different countries are here. For milder infections, yes, vaccine efficacy decreases over time, but not very significantly, and for more severe infections, efficacy is still very good. There may also be an answer to Mr Ligi's question, which Professor Talving has already given. If you look, here are the countries that had a short injection gap, these are the United States and Israel. You can see that these columns are slightly lower than those countries that first went on this 12-week gap. Here are the United Kingdom and Finland. In Estonia it was under discussion, but since we are a small country first and since the Agency said that there were no data, the data were up to day 42, we decided to make a six-month difference. It was discussed several times. Yeah, it's always very easy to be smart afterwards. And if you look at who's falling into immunity, it's especially for the residents of nursing homes. Here again are all these slides: light, medium, severe infections and hospitalisations. And if you look at those leftmost columns, you'll see that the people of nursing homes really fall into immunity. Let's look at the health professionals, including the decline in immunity. It's an American study, you can see that immunity is falling, but not very dramatically. Let's look at Estonia's data, it's September 22nd. But our data is very similar, no matter what day I take. Maybe the numbers are a little different, but we see every day from the reports you read in your newspaper that about a third of the infected have been vaccinated and two thirds have not been vaccinated. And when we look separately at those who have been vaccinated, how long ago they were vaccinated, we see that most of those who have been vaccinated and infected have been vaccinated less than 22 weeks ago. Which doesn't necessarily mean that the immunity gets old, it means that the vaccines are designed to prevent a mild infection, and that's exactly what they do. So there is [the question] when and to whom to make the dose of effectiveness. Also, these effectiveness doses are likely to prevent infection or transmission of the virus, but it is important to do the efficiency dose first and foremost to avoid a serious disease. Most patients come to the hospital without vaccination. We were already talking about Denmark. I would like to draw your attention to the difference between us and Denmark. If you look at this picture in the bottom left corner, you will see that there has also been an increase in infection in Denmark. You can see that in Denmark, this dark blue line, which is the oldest population, 80+, is completely straight. There is no infection of older people. If we look here at a similar picture of Estonia, then in Estonia this dark line rises again, the infection of our older people will increase. This is one of our very important differences from Denmark. How did they get it? It is very clear from this picture that we still have a new Europe and an old Europe. Old Europe has achieved a very high level of vaccination among older people. None of the countries of Eastern Europe has done so very well. This has not succeeded in Estonia and has not come out in other Eastern European countries. Although at first this plan was, but perhaps we were not able to be as strict as some Western European countries that have progressed down [with indicators]. So what would the conditions be, how can we live with the virus? Serious diseases are primarily in the high-risk group and deaths have been minimised. The functioning of hospitals is not disturbed. The only way we can achieve this is to immunise older people, especially older people, very widely. Then, for a large part of the population, if we have a high level of vaccination, we have antibodies. Then we can make sure that we no longer have to be self-insulated, that a sick person stays at home sick, just as the sick person always stays at home. Close contacts that are fully vaccinated are not isolated and therefore a large number of people have not been eliminated from the working or school environment. Denmark, Sweden and Norway have left the testing of passengers and close contacts. New viruses cannot develop in Estonia; we are too small a country. We're getting it in here, and this is where the infection goes on widely. We've got a plan, Peep must have told us that the plan is to increase the hospital load. The closure of schools and businesses should be avoided as much as possible. It's not a child's disease. It must be very clear to us that if we close the schools, what do we want to achieve with this? Kids, as we know, aren't very worried. And what is still very important and what every Estonian citizen can do: to deal with the reduction of fear and the division of society. I think it's a bigger problem now than a low level of vaccination. We see that those who are anti-vaccine don't trust anyone. They don't trust experts either. They're going right against the cross. If the expert says we're gonna vaccinate, they're not gonna vaccinate. If the expert says the ivermectin doesn't work, they use it. If the expert says we put the masks on, they don't put the mask on. If the expert says there's no point in assigning antibodies, they'll be the first to have antibodies determined. How we get our trust back in society, I don't know what to say. Maybe this school thing, which has caused a lot of confusion, is a very good example. HTM gave instructions, but they don't work in real life. A life without restrictions is the ability to live with the virus. We accept the virus! If serious cases have been avoided, both sides should be satisfied. The virus is not really interested in destroying us because it destroys itself, too, and it is certainly not interested in it. The capacity of the medical system that the previous speaker spoke about will be decisive. The system of care for the elderly should prevent, but not encourage, the spread of the virus. We're doing everything we can to keep the virus from spreading uncontrolled! We vaccinate and accept that some non-pharmacological methods remain. Professor Everaus is here in the first row, mask in the front, mask is also a non-pharmacological method. And we make our decisions on the basis of science, not emotions! That was my last slide. Thank you for listening!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U73	Professor Lutsar, thank you very much for your presentation. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U74	Good manager! Good waitress! It's a disease of older men. And if you look at the age structure in Estonia, there are just over 100,000 people over the age of 70, men half or a little [under] of it. I'm asking you if you didn't vaccinate the younger ones, because 80% of those who die are still over 70 years old, which would be. Would the sanitary cutting of these grandfathers be decent, or would the grandfathers be practically lost? Because, well, it doesn't kill young people, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U75	We never know who the virus kills and who it doesn't kill. You can't really say young people don't have much trouble at all. Although, as far as I know, yes, young people who have died have also had very serious comorbid diseases. If we had a vaccine that prevented the virus from being transmitted so that we wouldn't have any more PCR positives, then maybe it would have been the idea that we vaccinate the young, they carry the disease out. Old people don't carry the disease because they're home, but they get it from somewhere. But the current vaccine is not one that prevents the virus from being transmitted. The current vaccine is a very good disease to avoid severe cost and hospitalisation. Because of this strategy, that we vaccinate older people first and foremost, has worked in very many countries and has also worked very well in Estonia. If we look, we got 7% of the infected in the hospital a year ago, now it's 4%. So we should have had a different vaccine to vaccinate younger people. Young people would have protected the elderly. But you can't destroy anyone. Or maybe you had another word you used.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U76	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor Lutsar! Already last March, the World Health Organization leader said such a sentence that we need to learn to live with this virus. And that's how the sentence began to spread, repeated every few months, for example, Dr. Fauci in the United States. At some point it reached Estonian rhetoric, and today you also made it very clear that this virus has come to stay. But it has to do with the immune system. In Estonian health care, would it be necessary to introduce some principles in the disease prevention system after vaccination, so that people's immune system is stronger, so that they do not have to be very afraid of this disease? Is there any way to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U78	If we only knew how to strengthen immunity, we'd give you that advice. The immune system is very cleverly invented by the body, but it is also very, very complicated. In the immune system, you suppress one thing, others take over that function. And as far as I know, there's nothing that strengthens my immune system except a good mood and a happy mood that I can't offer you. That's unfortunately the case. Yet again, the viruses have not been sent from Satan to this world. Viruses are the ones that stimulate our immune system all the time. If it wasn't for the viruses, something else would do that we could do worse. So we have to respect this virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U79	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U80	Thank you, good manager. Dear Professor Lutsar! Very many of the anti-vaccinating agents who demonstrate here in front of Toompea claim that the whole pandemic is about mass PCR testing and that if it is stopped, the pandemic will also go away. Their main claim is that the inventor of the PCR test method, Dr Kary Mullis, who was awarded the Nobel Prize for the invention of the test, said that a positive PCR test does not mean that a person is sick or infected because the test is not able to distinguish an active virus from a dead virus that has already been infected. So this means that they claim that the PCR test detects genetic material that exists naturally in the human body, but not specific coronavir. I'm not a virologist. As a specialist, what do you say about these claims? And how do you even distinguish scientific claims from unscientific ones? Only recently did we see a documentary in ETV where failed professors have become an idol of anti-vaccination. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U81	Yes, I have heard such arguments before, so that there would not be a pandemic if we did not test it. Let's get back to the very beginning. In China, atypical pneumonia was first seen, after a month and a half the virus was not identified and then PCR tests came in. So there was a disease before, and then the PCR tests came. That's right, no one can argue with Mullis. What he invented is a Nobel Prize and worth more. But the RNA of the virus doesn't get throats if there's no virus. It's not like there's an RNA before, and then there's a virus, but it's the opposite, that the virus first, the virus breaks down, then the RNA is released, and that RNA is measured by this PCR. We don't really have, or there are such methods in virology, but they're not... Let's say growing viruses in cell culture isn't very real because it takes days. So this PCR test is all we have right now. But in that sense, it's right, yes, that his pros and cons are exactly the same: he's too sensitive, he sometimes takes RNA when there's no live virus. And we know these residual positives, and we're going to identify them. So we just don't have a better method right now. And in medicine, I believe that the doctors in this room agree with me, it's easier to deal with things that we know than those we don't know. So giving up diagnostics in that sense, I guess, isn't quite right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U82	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U83	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for this presentation. I look at these slides with beautiful colored columns, and I look at Denmark, Finland, Sweden, with envy and recognition. And then, sadly, I look at what our slides show. Among older people, 80+ others have coverage of 100%, we have [far from it]. In fact, there is almost 90% coverage over the age of 50. It probably speaks of society's trust in doctors. For example, I, who have also lived in Denmark, cannot conclude that the trust of the Estonian people in doctors is so much different from what I have seen in Scandinavia. However, I have observed that throughout this whole process of virus, the state has lacked trust in the family doctors, and the family doctors have been constantly excluded from this process, or have been involved in a very strange way, making their lives difficult for the local authorities as well. Is there anything better that could have been done, and is there anything else that we can do to really get those biggest risk groups finally vaccinated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U84	Yeah, there's always something better to do. There is probably no person in this outbreak who would have made more than one mistake. I agree with that. But I guess everything goes back to a very long tradition. It has been ten years since 2% of the elderly had been vaccinated against influenza in Estonia, in Denmark and in the Nordic countries in general 70-80%. We haven't had that tradition of adult vaccination. Yes, it is wise to be very simple afterwards, but in the case of these other countries, I noticed that they were very strict about their plan. It was planned that we would first vaccinate 80-year-olds, and then when a pretty high percentage of 80-year-olds were vaccinated, they went to 70 and then to 60-year-olds. It was strictly adhered to. We may have had this thing a lot hecticer. All the time, new groups came in from somewhere. But it's purely my personal opinion, it's not the opinion of the scientific council. I have repeatedly given this example that my personal child, who lives in England, received the vaccine in the same week as the future king of England because they were born one year. They didn't invite anyone. Maybe it'll help in the future. Well, I can't tell you, I already have a brain empty of ideas that can still be done, how these people, especially the elderly, but not just the elderly, believe that vaccines are good and help prevent a serious disease. Peep must have told you that this disease is very scary. Yeah, the vaccines have side effects, but there are very few. Perhaps social scientists or members of society [leaders] or Riigikogu you see people, you may understand better what people want. But unfortunately, I haven't been able to tell anyone. I've tried, I've tried, I've tried, I've tried.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U85	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U86	Thank you. It makes sense that the immunity of one injection [made] falls faster than that of two injections, but my logic was to point out that reaching as much immunity as possible is more important than [preventing] its decline. But I guess he's kind of an unclear thing. But my new question is two-part. First, what about the mutation of the corona virus? On the one hand, it has been argued by the biologists that it is in principle impossible for him to achieve this as quickly as the influenza virus. And on the other hand, the claim of the antiquator authority, Antonina [Järviste], is that vaccines produce very rapid mutation, which makes some sense. But what is this summary? What's good? The second question: what is known by now about the very logical thing that the person injected infects worse? What exactly is known? Two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U87	Yeah, that's the difference between the vaccine [injection]. Immunologically, there's definitely a longer difference, but you can't turn back time. We accept that this is the case. But now I'm coming to the viral mutations that Dr. Järviste is talking about. Yeah, he's talking about an increased immune response that vaccines can produce. And this is a known phenomenon, and behind it are many animal coronavirus vaccines. Vaccinator may develop a more severe disease. This is also behind the RSV virus vaccine, for example, that the vaccine victim suffers more seriously than the person who has not been vaccinated when the wild virus has infected him. In the case of Corona virus, this particular corona virus has been studied by a large number of groups. It was like a low apple that got caught. It has been studied by many groups and has not been proven. So in that sense, this argument is theoretically correct, but practically no one has proved it. And the virus mutates. Our lab is also doing viral genotyping, my students and my younger colleagues. And we can see that there are a lot of understrains inside this delta virus. This image isn't so homogeneous that it's a delta virus. Deltavirus itself consists of a large number of substrains. We have seen that this bouquet of viruses appeared before vaccination, say, all of them alpha, beta, gamma and delta, all of which somehow occurred last September, September-October 2020. And they split up a little later. Lambda may have started in January this year, but this lambda hasn't gotten anywhere. So there's no connection between the virus mutating and vaccination. And as I said in my report, some experts think that we are already at the end of the journey that the virus has exhausted its potential. However, there are experts who say that the virus has something else in the arsenal, that it may come up with drug-resistant strains. [Has] One question: Where is the flu? Well, we all expected this last year, Australia was waiting for this year, too. A flu R0 or a spread capability of about two to three, maybe four, delta virus 5 to eight. So right now, it seems that the corona virus has taken up the whole niche, and the poor flu virus is unable to find a place in the same niche. I would very much like that, and I believe that the influenza virus itself would be able to deal with the coronavir itself a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U88	Mr Lutsar, thank you very much for your presentation and I thank you very much for your answers. Thank you very much. A lot of strength for you in your work, including under the leadership of the science council! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U90	Good fellows! Now we have to go to the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group, which says that there is a request to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We have to vote on this. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U91	18 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported, the hearing has been extended. I ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly not as qualified as the previous rapporteurs, and so I will focus on a few aspects of the corona crisis. Vaccination is the main and, in fact, the only way out of the restrictions, especially among older people. They are more likely to get into hospital and intensive care if the vaccine does not protect them from the disease and/or does not soften the symptoms of the disease. The Health Minister showed us the numbers. Antibody statistics are precisely where exit from restrictions can take place very soon, but older people are still concerned. Only 15% of these people lost their antibodies, but it's a large enough number of people to carry our hospital care under too much pressure. There has been a lot of talk lately about pressure on unvaccinated people. One wants to leave them without medical attention, the other wants them to pay for their own hospital treatment. Yes, a higher level of vaccination is a goal, but there is a price that cannot be higher than the potential victory to reach that goal. Breaking society is undoubtedly too high a price. We can't afford it. Instead of pressure, we need to focus on positive solutions. Firstly, let us honestly admit that there are now so few unvaccinated people that we can approach them individually. Evgeni Ossinovsky also asked the Minister of Health a question about this a few hours ago. The vaccine is not overly high among these unvaccinated people. However, most of them are those who have not reached or doubt, they must be targeted individually. The solution could be to launch an ambulance for the vaccine so that it can be ordered home as conveniently as it is in the grocery store to make an online order. And what's to deny, people are afraid of doctors. Some people only feel safe in their own home, and in the hospital, this feeling of security disappears. We convert different people, we get them. And we do not have to pilot similar projects again, for example, on a risk group or in some small town in Estonia. Such a hunch does not justify ourselves, we have already learned from previous practice, or at least I hope we have. If such a vaccine ambulance were to start all over Estonia at a time, we would be able to significantly increase the vaccination percentage in one month. Another potential solution would be the premium, the so-called 13th salary for staff of vaccinated nursing homes, for example, at the end of this year and also for those who have received the vaccine before. We are talking about EUR 3 million, and that would be very well invested money. The overall percentage of vaccination is important, but once again: it is elderly unvaccinated patients who are causing a hospitalised crisis. Nursing homes received the vaccine at the beginning of the vaccination campaign, and this was undoubtedly the right step. In the spring as a country, we got away with worse. There aren't many clients in nursing homes who give up the vaccine. But they're a very clear risk group. Not only are they elderly, they live with other people. And today we still have a situation where a considerable proportion of the staff in nursing homes are unvaccinated, and that is their personal decision. This is unfortunate, of course, because any such person can cause the deaths of several wards. Unfortunately, these institutions, the employers of their guardians, have no room for manoeuvre. They don't have any new staff to take. And in the case of hospitals, we also see that if doctors willingly vaccinate themselves, moving down the hierarchy chain, nurses, cleaners, we see that the picture becomes much more diverse. Rewarding people for vaccination by the state may seem silly, but it saves lives and not only the lives of those elderly customers, but also those people who do not lose medical care in such a case, such as getting a timely diagnosis of cancer. As a result, hospitals can escape the overload and continue their planned work. I do not want to say, of course, that there is no place in the fight against the crisis when it comes to pressure. Let's face it! The vaccine passport with the QR code is also a mechanism of pressure, but it has certainly produced results. But this is one of the few possibilities of pressure that seems more or less logical to us. In this direction, the state could perhaps also refrain from paying fast tests where it still does so, as could the municipalities. But this is basically our whole playroom. It is important to understand that stigmatisation of unvaccinated people is more damaging than beneficial, and it is very easy to go too far. Not only does it divide society, it makes a suspicious person an active vaccine. If you're attacked, you're bound to defend yourself. Attacking against vaccines does not increase the rate of vaccination, but may be [inversely]. To improve the situation, we could think about how to realize the concerns of the vaccine. They're people like us, they're not all conspiracy theorists. Mr Grünthal drew attention to the very right problem. If people get any damage to their health after vaccination, or if they die, no one will be responsible for this today. There is patient insurance in Estonia, according to which the patient or his/her family will receive compensation if the doctor's mistake causes the person to suffer damage to his/her health or to die. But if it's a side effect, not a doctor's mistake, there's no responsibility. I am sure that today is the perfect time to create a vaccine damage fund in Estonia. Such a fund exists in a large number of developed countries, such as Denmark, Sweden and Norway, which are already going beyond restrictions, but also in Canada, Germany, Italy, New Zealand and many other countries. If vaccination causes health damage, the person or his family will receive payments from this fund. Yeah, of course, money doesn't bring back a dead person, but it's not like patient insurance, but the vaccine damage fund increases the sense of justice in society and reduces division. We will not be able to solve all the problems with the vaccine in this move, but then at least we will know who will be responsible if the vaccination ends badly for the person. The cost of setting up a vaccine damage fund is actually quite marginal, but it also improves the percentage of vaccination, for example among children. Today, more and more parents are giving up the vaccination of children, and the return of other epidemics is no longer far off if this trend persists. And polio, for example, is a disease far more severe than coronavir. Jürgen Ligi asked Tanel Kiig what went wrong. A lot went wrong. We did not vaccinate politicians first, and this created conspiracy theories in society. We decided that each of us had to receive two vaccines as planned, and did not reconsider even when it turned out that this strategy was not optimal. HOIA app has been a serious symbol of a dying digital state. It just didn't work, it missed integration with the vaccine certificate. We must draw very serious conclusions from this saga. Using masks, we went along with the herd effect in other countries, and it could cost us quite a few lives and caused another increase in tension in society. Masks protect. For example, a large and representative study conducted three weeks ago proved this. But they only protect you if you use them properly, not if it's mandatory, the person puts the mask in the store and then puts it back in his pocket, then takes it out of his pocket and puts it in the next store. However, when developing policies, we must be guided by common sense. We did not start working with the private sector and instead of separating vaccines from large factories for example, we hunted individual old people in Abja-Paluoja and Koonga, forgetting that the same factory worker actually lives with an elderly father or grandmother who was thus indirectly deprived of protection. But it is important to remember that this is not about who is responsible, but about how we can draw conclusions to escape today's pandemic and be more successful in future crises. There are many lessons to be learned. For me, the main thing is that strong political leadership is a very important means of overcoming the crisis. After all, the Minister of Health may be distrusted if political parties agree among themselves whether he is guilty of coercive vaccination or too slow vaccination. But he's always had to seek consensus in the government with other ministers. And they all have a different view of the world and a different understanding of things. People may be wrong, but they cannot escape error if decisions in a medical crisis are made between very different people from the consensus. I hope that, in the near future, we will be able to overcome the differences and take the necessary steps to ensure that the corona crisis is over within a few months with restrictions and that in future we can do even better as a country in similar situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U93	There's a question for you too. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U94	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Good Andrei, in your presentation you highlighted quite a number of important aspects of how we could reach a restricted Estonia. You're an entrepreneur yourself. How do you think who should add up or calculate the damage that a society living under restrictions has to suffer versus the potential benefits that we receive from these restrictions? In the context of restrictions, society has a constant focus of fear, causing stress, anxiety and depression. Thousands of broken families. All of this, in turn, weakens our immune system and makes us even more susceptible to all viruses, not only COVID, but also to influenza and other diseases. After all, someone should put together this economic damage. Today we don't have such an organization. In the Netherlands, for example, there is a separate public authority that analyses such scenarios. Who should consider what the damage is, and will it outweigh the damage caused by the siege of society?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U95	Thank you for your question. I'm a little more optimistic myself. I think the corona crisis has done a lot of good. Now we can do all the teleworking, including those who had never encountered it before. We can see from today's economic growth around the world that it has had an impact on productivity. And I think it's a structural change that stays with us, and it most likely accelerated progress. However, as far as the damage is concerned, I think that when every decision is taken, we must be guided by the fact that there is another side. For example, when we talk about masks, they give [the desired] effect, but they also give the opposite effect, which divides society. If one person really wants to wear a mask and the other person doesn't really want it, what's going on between them could cause more damage than this potential medical positive effect. For each decision, I think we need to think of a step or two forward. Yeah, we may think we need to vaccinate high-risk groups, but if we send doctors in one dose to look for an elderly person, if at the same time he might find 100 or 200 people who are in one place... Jne, et cetera. We don't have to calculate these losses, I think, like this, it's not going to get us anywhere, but we could look at the overall picture and make decisions based on what's being published in one magazine or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U96	Thank you, good waitress, thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U97	I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U98	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U99	Honourable representative of the people! Respectable Minister of Health! What's going on here is actually kind of an absurd situation. We are discussing how to remove all restrictions, how to actually return to normal in society, even though we have a situation where we have reached a high level of risk today, where we are receiving sad news of people's deaths, where nearly 800 more are infected. According to the study, we have 2% of unvaccinated people moving around, even though they're in the active distribution phase of the virus. Professor Fischer's records tell us what? They say that we are currently in R level 1.1 we will reach 1,500 infected by the beginning of November a day. These are actually high-level numbers in spring. We have a situation in which Mr Merits claims that, by modeling, this means hundreds of older people who lose their lives. We are talking about some sort of derdreality, although action must be taken, and action must be taken immediately. At this point, it is not that we have already removed and overcome the virus and how to move forward. On the contrary, we now have a situation where, if we do not take urgent steps to vaccinate and ensure the safety of the most vulnerable group, people over 65, there are inevitable [long-term restrictions] in society. There is no doubt about that. The first question: what to do? First of all, I think it's very important to put a virus barrier on them to keep schools open. It is completely absurd to know that this is Mr. Health Minister's personal guide to the attitude that the Health Board intends to take a negative position on testing in schools. It's the wrong way! Testing was carried out at Viimsi school, 10% of [infected] children were identified, and measures can be taken. And we leave the children of the schools of Tallinn unprotected! On the contrary, tests must not be abandoned, Mr Minister, but mass tests must be started in schools, immediately! Our epicenter area is Harjumaa and centred on Tallinn. Let's move on to immunization of older people! Promises and arguments for immunization of older people have not been met. And that means people pay for it alive. What do they say as an excuse? The Prime Minister says the old people are guilty. Because they are Russian-era people, they are Eastern Europeans and they have no experience in immunization. I'm sorry! Leave the elderly alone! It is important to bring clear information to people about measures that are effective. When we talk about the epicenter district of Tallinn, the city of Tallinn and the state have failed to do so. I spoke to a family doctor from Nõmme, Tallinn, this morning. I asked him if it was a task to deal with all the elderly in Tallinn who have not yet been immunised, whether they would be called. He said no. There is no such mass contact. And that's a very serious problem. We need to provide people, especially at risk groups, with objective information on coronavir, vaccination, the side effects of what are effective measures to prevent the virus. A lot of people who hesitate, including older people, think that if they wear a mask in a store, it's really a protection against the virus. But in the case of new strains of the virus, wearing a mask in practice may not provide individual protection, especially for people at risk. We know this perfectly well. It's a deceiving defense, a deceiving idea that he's protecting a person. Yes, he protects the collective, as a protective measure reduces the risk of virus spread, but in the case of an individual, it cannot be said that he is protected when wearing a mask because people do not wear masks that are more effective in keeping the virus, these medical FFP3 masks. What can be done specifically to deliver the message to the elderly? We need to understand that there is a need for a clear communication, an information campaign in the public domain, a high-risk communication. Information on measures to control the virus must be brought to people. A very simple and concrete proposal, which I discussed with scientists, economics and health people. We need to create [a situation] in which people themselves are motivated to obtain information about the spread of the virus and the measures taken to prevent it. The wave is rising, a storm is rising around more vulnerable people. Let's look at the numbers: as the current situation, the level of restrictions and dynamics continue, at the beginning of November, 1,500 people have been infected a day. This means an increase in hospital burden in a passionate way, which inevitably also means regrettable fatal events. A specific proposal when we are talking about the epicenter region of Tallinn: we take [hands] and develop a specific counselling programme in cooperation with the state and the city regarding coronavir. A short telephone-weapon consultation, where we also say that all elderly people, people over 65 years of age, who pass this short intensive advice, will receive a €100 medical card. And it is not [to be taken into account] whether or not a person has been vaccinated, whether or not a person is vaccinated afterwards. People need objective information and it needs to be delivered to people in real communication. Just hope that if there are leaflets somewhere in the corner, or if there is a picture of Arkad's Popov shooting himself, it's enough to inform you, it's not enough, as we've seen. And don't blame older people for being responsible for not having been vaccinated. This particular project can be started within weeks when the call centre starts. And we need to act quickly to provide specific information to people at risk on how to mitigate the risks associated with the spread of the virus and what measures are being taken. Another concrete proposal, when I am talking about this medicine card for all elderly people who have received advice, is, of course, an additional motivation for family doctors. You delayed, delayed and delayed healthcare providers by setting a higher price list for vaccination. But now there is a situation where we are in a critical phase again, and now more effective tools must be implemented. What was relevant yesterday may not be relevant today or tomorrow. And the message is one and clear: we need to impose an immunization fee of EUR 50 on family doctors for 65+ people. They too should be part of this scheme, this counselling programme and their drug map programme. Action must be taken, not to speak, and to create a false madness that the creation of a commemorative fund for the victims of vaccination, as the proposal said, will help to speed up vaccination. There is certainly no doubt about helping people who also have side effects. But we can't give a false signal. And it seems to me that the focus of the debate is built entirely misplaced. We have regained the spread of the corona virus today, but we are discussing how to take all the restrictions down, moving on with our lives. A lot of people don't move on, so numbers show us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U100	Thank you very much. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U101	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I used to do medical genetics and spend days and nights in the lab. I was involved in drug resistance studies, not viruses, but bacteria. And I remember when I jammed in the bacteria to feed a variety of antibiotics. I put one, two, three, four and more. And always, even when there were seven or eight different, such a cocktail, there was some sort of "bacterial boy," who was able to cope and began to reproduce, a colony, as the bacterial colony looked, developed with certain properties. Bacteria began to grow. But the virus boy is a lot cooler. Whatever barriers or cocktails we're making for him, there's still an iron brother or sister who has no sex, of course, who can handle it. And on this point, Professor Lutsar's story here was true that the virus was not intended to kill the hosts, but to survive itself. But that's it. So first of all, thank you to the performers, the smart people, who talk about what they feel! But I want to focus on one of the things that came out of today's presentation, that this whole game is really about protecting grandfathers. We have, if you look at the population pyramid, men over 70 years of age about 40,000, but the so-called grandmothers half the size. I may be wrong about the numbers, but the order of magnitude is 90,000. But as we have seen here, death cuts men first, COVID death as well. Well, what does this picture look like? I'm from the Doc clan and I know my face is getting blue and suffocating. As Dr. Talving said, at first the kidneys and after the heart fail and it's in the kitchen. Grandpas are dying. Grandmothers too, but much less grandmothers. So, actually, a lot of our grandfathers have gone to their graves with their life experience and everything else. And now we come to what I'm dealing with every day, and so are many of you. Younger people, men-women, hitting the chest: it doesn't concern me, it's not a serious disease. Although it's not really like that. Resistance does not depend solely on age. But in general, they're right. And now the younger ones have a question why the devil should vaccinate them or, as some say, inject them with poison. Well, I'm not that radical. We've spent a lot of money, a lot of vaccines have been wasted in the fridges, which were warmed up instead. But it's a side-by-side issue. And the second question. We have closed our society, the economy has slowed down, the ships have stood for a long time, and during the last wave, Tallinn's nobility hotels have offered 25 euros of luxury suite accommodation, including food. There was just no one to go to the hotel. Is this price worth the effort? Because above all, as I emphasised, and as has been the case today, it is primarily grandfathers. Older men, older men, who get hospitalized and die. A lot of people are younger, but they get very serious damage. I was at Health Services, I spent a long night there the day Üllar Lanno retired, and I talked to a top expert. He was talking about his husband, a 50-year-old athletic man who thought that he [the illness] wouldn't break. After that, however, he could no longer exercise, and his health has failed to this day. That's it. It's like this balance issue we're betting on. But I think you should think about protecting your grandfathers first. What if it doesn't break me, but I carry on with this virus and... Thanks, pretty bell, that means a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U102	No, that means time's up or you want more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U103	Yeah, I'd like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U104	Got it. Please, extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U105	There's not much to talk about. For me, the result of today is to think about your grandfathers. Even if this disease doesn't break me or kill me, maybe it'll make my health and resilience worse. But one more thing they told me at the Health Board that memorable night when I was walking there watching them warm-up fridges and all sorts of other things and talking to experts. They said that if we usually have about 5,000 flu cases, there were five of them last year. Five and 5,000! And yet they talked about it was the Health Board's brain trust that is to be afraid that in the future it will happen that if we get the corona under control, then there may be much worse forms of flu. And that's the same problem as the one that I haven't gotten an answer to, just like there's competition between mink and somethin'. One was here before, but when a bigger and more aggressive mint was brought here and got out of the cages, the European mink began to disappear. The Korona, or'mink', is primarily a deadly disease of old people and the flu is younger, but I have not received an answer where they will meet. Why, at the same time as the corona is, is the flu practically gone, and not only in Estonia but also elsewhere? So that's one question. Unfortunately, we were only able to ask one question, I have not received an answer, but I have not dealt with it very much either. Actually, there's a lot of questions here. And, of course, we've been vaccinating a lot. Hard! Of course, the one thing I've encountered is the absurdity of testing. It won't be long to say that those who don't get vaccinated will be tested, but a few weeks ago, even in Tallinn, it was difficult to test on the same day. Or you can pay 100 euros or 50 euros every day to go to a coffee shop, go to a movie. Absurd! That's what we're told in the country: bullet in the head! But thanks anyway for an interesting day!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U106	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu Chair Margit Sutrop.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U107	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! Minister, thank you very much. The topic of today's debate is "How to reach a restricted Estonia?'. This theme setting is actually weird. Is our greatest concern, indeed, now the restrictions or even the very rapid spread of the virus and the increasing number of victims? After all, there are no restrictions, or indeed they are extremely gentle in comparison to those countries that are now opening up their societies and have been holding restrictions for a long time. I also experienced this when living in Finland last year and working in Germany this summer, researching that wearing masks and other indoor meeting requirements are much tougher than they have been in Estonia now or this year or last year. Professor Irja Lutsar pointed out in her report that our greatest concern was mistrust, which has led to the emergence of vaccine resistance. But as Professor Peep Talving said, only vaccination of 80% of the entire population, 85% of the risk groups and 90% of the risk groups, ensures that the restrictions are completely abandoned. The COVID-19 virus has victims, both visible victims and invisible victims. Apparent victims are sick and those who lose their lives and health professionals who are under extreme pressure. But COVID also has invisible victims: children who do not get enough education, people lose their jobs, nervous parents who have to cope with distance learning, entire sectors whose profits fall, companies that go bankrupt, and finally all of us. The money that goes to take care of the consequences of the COVID and to take preventive action is taken out of all of our pockets. In the budget for next year, this amount is, as far as I know, 80 million, which is the extra money to mitigate the consequences of the COVID. And that is what we would need for saviors' salaries, teachers' salaries, support for higher education, support for science and very many steps in other areas. So we all have a common interest in controlling the spread of the virus. Our question should not be how to remove restrictions, but how to prevent the victims of what we have as members of the Riigikogu, doctors, scientists, teachers and responsible citizens. The direct victims of COVID are infected with the virus. Especially are those who suffer or even leave their lives as a result. But the victims are also all those people with other illnesses whose scheduled treatment is delayed. These cases, which were postponed in the first half of 2021, are, as Dr. Peep Talving said today, 21642. Behind this number are real people, our children, grandchildren, mothers, fathers, grandmothers and grandfathers. Potentially, any one of us could be. I wrote about this a few days ago in an article on the Estonian Daily Paper Delfi that it is not fair that those who have been diligent and responsible are currently suffering. As we heard from Dr. Talving, the scheduled treatment is already being postponed. The hospitals in Northern Estonia managed to do 74% of planned treatment cases and 78% in South Estonia. It means there has to be a principle on which to decide who to treat. That principle exists. Right now, this principle is an acute illness. COVID-19 is a serious disease and the consequences can be severe. However, over 70% of patients who have reached the hospital have given up vaccination before, and it is justified to ask why they should suffer from patients with other illnesses who are eagerly waiting for scheduled treatment and whose quality of life, as well as mental health, is deteriorating due to delaying scheduled treatment. Of course, complications or new symptoms may occur. In the recommendations on clinical ethics for hospitals prepared in spring 2020 we did with ethics committees... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U108	Yes, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U109	... we said that COVID-19 and other patients should be treated equally. But when resources are scarce, you should give priority to those who have been vaccinated. This same article, published in the German authority newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, stated that if we had to do a triage, why not take into account how much man himself has taken care of his so-called equal opportunities as to whether he has been vaccinated? Those who have been vaccinated have taken a certain risk, even if this risk is very low. They have contributed to maintaining their health and the well-being of others and of society as a whole. However, I reiterate here the words of the Prime Minister, who responded yesterday to the questioning of the EKRE ambassadors in Question Time, that all of our people have a fundamental right to treatment. In the event of an acute illness, they will be given treatment even if they are not insured. But in the absence of resources, no one can demand to be treated immediately. No one has such a right. In the case of natural disasters, too, no one can demand that he be helped immediately when resources are scarce. We have a level playing field for everyone, the vaccines are available to everyone, and people can get vaccinated. Very few people are unable to do so because of the disease. Professor Irja Lutsar has said that the sickest need vaccinations most. If people do not take advantage of this opportunity but can do so, they should receive help in a different order, giving an advantage to those who have been diligent and vaccinated. But the key question is how we can regain trust. How do you make people believe that vaccines help? Perhaps there should be more investigation into who or what is actually mistrusted: are there really experts, that is, scientists, doctors, pharmaceutical companies or the country? Trust in the state is in the hands of all of us, especially the political parties, to create it. Distrust of pharmaceutical companies is spreading. It is clear that there is a large propaganda machine behind it, false facts are spread, fear is spread, and social media distributes the most absurd videos about how the vaccine leads to some kind of nanoparticles that kill people. It's an incredible lack of education that people go along with it and believe it. But scientists should be consistent and explain everything, as Dr. Talving did perfectly today. It's a shame our anti-vaccines weren't in the hall at the time, there was no one to educate. There seems to be a lack of education behind the mistrust of scientists. Unfortunately, the scientific worldview is not as widespread as it could be, and here all educational institutions, from kindergarten, school and university, can do something to restore confidence in science. But doctors are trusted. If they weren't trusted, they wouldn't be allowed to be taken to the hospital and treated. But I haven't heard anyone shout at the hospital door that he doesn't believe the doctors. Those who get very seriously ill are happy to be treated by evidence - based medicine. And yet they believe in conspiracy theories and alternative facts. So it's not a question of mistrusting doctors. And we should do something with the help of the doctors. I agree with Mr Reinsalu that perhaps family doctors really should take time and talk more to the doubters. The initiative of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu to send students to talk to people is very good, but maybe it would be possible to support more inviting patients to family doctors' home visits and personal consultations in order to face people's fears and consider possible side effects. As Professor Irja Lutsar said, basic anti-vaccines are only 5%. I will end here and I very much hope that we all understand our contribution and responsibility so that society can cope with this virus and that there will be no invisible or visible victims. A free and open society can only emerge if we are educated and trusted in overcoming distrust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U110	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair, Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U111	Thank you, Mr President. I've been wondering if I'm coming here tonight. This is for the simple reason that we are actually discussing the issue of how to reach a restricted society, in a situation where our third wave is gathering more and more sturgeons every day. We are in a situation where, according to the risk matrix already diluted by this government, we have reached an average level where, in fact, society should be called on to be cautious in terms of messages with all the recommendations that society has already learned to follow, to live with them, as has been used here as a concept, whether it be more use of teleworking or wearing a mask or whatever else. Instead, we give society exactly the opposite messages: discuss how restrictions can be removed. At that, people have quite a real feeling that things will probably be as good as the Riigikogu discusses how to remove restrictions, just as many other countries have done. I agree with my colleague, Mr Sutrop, that there are no restrictions to be removed compared to what we have today. At this point in my opinion, there is a lack of systematic, forward-looking communication on what this real situation is and what awaits us. I don't think it's a secret for anyone in this room to expect restrictions on scheduled treatment in the near future. So, what did we find out today? Not much, unfortunately. I guess we've been looking at and analyzing and evaluating these tables and numbers, some more often, some more sparsely. And, in general, we know that the real answer to this question is very simple: we must be able to reach a level in the coverage of the vaccine, that our most vulnerable age groups achieve practically full protection. And the more we can help with the rest, the more we can control the population. The one-phrase answer to this question is: it does not need to be discussed for four hours. The question is, where's the plan to get there? A real plan to get there, not a debate about what all kinds of obstacles have been, logistical and emotional, etc. Where's the plan to get there? This is the most important task that the Estonian state and society have at all. But shoulders are shrugged and slides made all kinds of excuses why this goal cannot be achieved. That, in my opinion, is not what Parliament should do in the current situation. Indeed, we should discuss in depth, intensively and quickly a substantive detailed action plan on how to achieve these levels of coverage. In May, 80% of the population aged 80+ had to achieve coverage. So far, it's not. It's less than 70%. Now we are getting to a situation where the most vulnerable elderly people who received their injections of vaccines in February-March actually reduce their protection due to the specific nature of the vaccine and the virus. We still don't give third shots. And in this context frankly, of course, it is easy to point out with a finger that you can see, here in the Riigikogu there is a party that feeds anti-vaccines. I'm sure there's a better sound of responsible messages, and I'm sure I'm in. But what do we do now? It's not part of the plan, it's not the solution. There is no solution either that some people distrust... I'll take some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U112	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U113	Yes, we say that we have some people hesitating about this vaccine for one reason or another. Well, that's not helping, is it? We need a plan to overcome it. And, of course, these solutions exist. After all, it is not possible that schoolchildren in Tartu have twice as many vaccines as Saaremaa has. That's not possible! We all understand that something has been done in an orderly manner, that there are 800 free vaccination times at Kuressaare Hospital. But only a third of the students have been vaccinated. The fact that we've created a tap where water flows isn't enough. We also need to create a way for people to get to it, or that tap will reach those who need water there. To be honest, the constant talk that we have many obstacles is not adequate. This is only adequate in the sense that these obstacles actually exist. But the Estonian state and society, as well as the parliament, expect the executive authorities to have a concrete, thought-out and negotiated ambitious plan on how to move towards specific objectives on a regular basis, and then so will. But we have that by September 22, originally even by September 1, 70% of the adult population had to be fully vaccinated. Then it was halved: Okay, let's do the first dose, then they took three more weeks, let's do September 22nd, then we'll run out of astronomical summer. By September 22, this target was not reached, with 40,000 people out of the required number not vaccinated on that day. And then the shoulders are shrugged, and they say, "What do I do?" Life is like this, we work hard, we work hard, we work hard, we do it as best we can and we hope that we will succeed by the end of October. And if it doesn't work, November will come, and then December will come. But all of this has a real price in life, in human health and, in fact, more broadly, in social influence, as my colleague said, in both visible and invisible victims. That kind of sluggish driving, I guess, we shouldn't afford to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-30_U114	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I am grateful to the initiators of this important national issue, and I am grateful to all speakers - Tanel Kiik, Peep Talving, Irja Lutsar, Andrei Korobenik, and I am grateful to all members of the Riigikogu who have asked questions during the negotiations. This debate is closed and the agenda of today's Riigikogu is also closed. The sitting is adjourned.
