ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Have a nice Thursday morning! We have the last working day of the 11th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U2	Hello! I hand over the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act. This gives the opportunity to submit the support signatures of Estonian citizens instead of bailing out candidates in Riigikogu elections. At the moment, if a new party wishes to come to the elections in Estonia, it must put out more than EUR 70000 in full-list applications. Instead, the bill provides an opportunity to present the signatures of 2% of Estonian citizens with the right to vote. At the scale of this obligation, it means collecting support signatures from nearly 18 000 citizens. Political parties and candidates can choose whether to sign or make financial bail. It will also lower the limit of the election result, from which bail will be returned to the candidate or political party. I think today is the most appropriate time to hand over this bill, because we are going to discuss environmental issues. This concerns, among other things, our nature and the diversity of nature. I think that this draft will certainly help to ensure political biodiversity, which is also very, very important, as well as fair competition. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U3	Thank you. Looks like there's no more drafts or inquiries to hand over. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Bureau will, of course, decide on further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're going to do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U4	95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U5	Today we have only one item on the agenda, which is a key national issue: "Climate-neutral Estonia by 2035?'. According to § 153 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the Bureau, on a proposal from the Environment Committee, determined the following procedure for discussing a matter of major importance. First, the presentation of Madis Vasser, a member of the board of the Estonian Green Movement and an expert on interest protection, is up to 20 minutes, and then you can ask questions and answers for up to 40 minutes. I'll tell you right away if there are any questions for the waitress, your questions will only go to that waitress. When the report is over, the question board will be blanked and the next question can be put to the next waitress. Next is the presentation by Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Environment Committee, for up to 10 minutes, and he has 20 minutes to answer questions. The third report is from Minister of the Environment Tõnis Möldr, 10 minutes, questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Then Annela Anger-Kraavi, senior researcher in the climate change economy at the University of Cambridge and Chairman of the Scientific and Technological Council of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, will be present for up to 20 minutes and will be able to ask questions for up to 40 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask a single question to each rapporteur. Once the prescribed time frame is exhausted, we will go to the negotiations. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the Committee on the Environment, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak to the representatives of the political groups and then to the members of the Riigikogu. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take any decisions. And if we do not have time, the Committee on the Environment has proposed extending the session to 14. All right. Let us then go to the debate on our crucial national issue. First I give the floor to Madis Vasser. I imagine you could take the mask off while you're on the show.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U6	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm very happy to finally stand here with you. At the same time, I feel a great deal of responsibility. I am talking today about the People's Initiative "Climate-neutral Estonia 2035," which was actually collected a year and a half ago. Then it was a rather different world. For example, the European Parliament had not yet announced a climate crisis. Nor was the global pandemic or at that time apparently not quite unthinkable changes in the way things were organized. Due to the Coronary crisis and the subsequent change of powers, today's debate has been postponed twice, but here we are at last. And today, we need to have these discussions in a situation where the world around us is already in the midst of very big changes. The aim of my presentation is to introduce you to the main content of "Climate-neutral Estonia 2035." This popular initiative has been signed by 2848 citizens and 12 associations. Today I am talking very generally about what is the content of this popular initiative and why "Climate-neutral Estonia 2035" is necessary, why it is possible and whether it is valuable. I do not want to focus on the details of climate policy and climate finance, nor on the subtleties of climate science, as this will probably be covered by the next speakers today. But I invite you all to think along about what we could do together for these more ambitious goals if we were to decide so. But I'm gonna start with a little warm-up question. I would ask all of you who are listening to me to respond to the following statement: do you agree? If mankind continues in its present form, we will soon face an ecological disaster. I repeat. If mankind continues in its present form, we will soon face an ecological disaster. I do not know your answers, but the exact same question was asked last year to a thousand people in the framework of the environmental awareness survey of Estonian residents. The same argument was accepted by 74% of respondents. Thus, a very broad understanding of the need for major and urgent changes exists in society. Therefore, the number of participants in our public initiative is, in fact, only the tip of the iceberg. What is more: during today's debate, I would like to say that the country is continuing in its current form when we are talking about climate neutrality only in 2050, as has been agreed at the moment. But now the contents. The people and organisations who have signed the conversion request the Estonian state to act quickly and decisively to halt climate change. Estonia must achieve climate neutrality with science-based solutions that involve society as a whole. These solutions must be fair, green and smart. All this by 2035 at the latest. So that we're all on the same page as possible, I'm going to open some of these keywords a little bit wider. For example, what is climate neutrality? This is reaching zero of the total greenhouse gas emissions and removals of Estonian greenhouse gases. As much as we throw emissions into the atmosphere, we need to be able to take back in some way over the course of the year. But I would like to stress that this is not only one agreed date or year, for example, 2035, but rather a gradual process to achieve this goal and to keep track of what has been achieved. It is wrong to think that we could somehow keep our emissions at a constant high level for the next 14 years and then draw them to zero overnight. These major steps must actually be taken in the coming years. Emissions reduction is a very comprehensive issue; it concerns energy, transport, industry, waste, agriculture, forestry, species protection, health, etc. It's very horizontal. But what do the science-based and inclusive solutions mentioned in the public initiative mean? In particular, they represent solutions that are already available and are acceptable to people. Although it would be more appropriate, of course, to say'science-based approaches', plurality, since climate change mitigation is not just an engineering-technical or economic-economic issue. It is also not a strictly social, cultural or only environmental issue; it is all of them together. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I encourage you to think not only of such high-tech ideas but also of the potential of legislative and behavioural changes to achieve these goals. In doing so, the involvement of all parties at an early stage is absolutely essential here. It can be said that the climate crisis is a crisis, but it requires a democratic debate to resolve it. The key question: Why in 2035? This is a compromise between, on the one hand, real development and, on the other hand, politically seemingly possible. Clear and bold objectives are essential to create such motivation for us to deal with these issues and challenges, as well as for other countries. Estonia can see an opportunity here for an innovative leap, not an excuse for inaction. In order to explain this year again, I will describe one imaginary timeline where I will first put before you such political promises, which go beyond 2035. I'm sure you know them. For example, 2050, which is the current goal of achieving Estonia's climate neutrality. A little closer than that, 2040, is the offer of a new government coalition for the final year of carbon intensive oil shale oil production. For example, the year 2035 has now been set as a target for climate-neutral energy production by looking at the umbrella strategy "Estonia 2035." But there are also real developments that actually take place before 2035. For example, by 2030, the land use and forestry sector is projected to emit more carbon than it can connect due to intensive management. In 2028, according to the analysis of the Estonian Chemical Industry Association, oil shale oil production may be stopped. And this scenario is becoming more and more likely. Finally, even two years ago, in 2019 there was an important date where no megawatts of oil shale electricity were produced in Estonia in the last few hours. As I hope you will see, there are clearly a scissors between political decisions and real development. Therefore, even without a public initiative, it is clear that national targets need to be updated. By ignoring the world's real developments, they can hit us unexpectedly and painfully. The new government's action plans are in fact the opening of two key documents with the aim of the end of the year, which are fundamental to the energy economic development plan and climate policy. That is exactly what the popular initiative at issue today is calling for. In addition, 21 environmental associations have submitted an application at the beginning of the year. But are these more ambitious objectives really achievable? The analysis carried out by SEI Tallinn of the Chamber of Thought about the perspective of 2050 indicated that it was practical in principle, yes. A 15-year-old climate neutrality can be achieved if, in particular, more efforts are made in the transport sector and decisively tackle the growth of cars. In addition, the study stresses that, despite the deadline, the greatest steps need to be taken in the coming years. Because it is often not recognised that the final end of emission reductions is the most difficult. Another important study to build on is the Prax think tank, which analysed the consequences of the complete disappearance of the oil shale sector by 2035. The results showed that important preventive attention should be paid to the risk of poverty, to the prevention of poverty in Ida-Virumaa, but the people employed in the oil shale sector, who would no longer find new jobs in the post-oil shale and the region with a more diverse economy, are actually less than a thousand. This is many less than the usual assessments in these discussions. Good listeners! I also need to mention briefly some technological solutions that should not be too much hoped for, as experience tells us that these issues will come up in such debates. It is important to stress that only technological breakthroughs will not help us towards climate neutrality. Changes in laws and general thinking are also needed. Moreover, speaking of a 2035 perspective that is already 14 years from now, we certainly cannot put our hopes on a technology that is almost not yet in existence or whose underlying logic is questionable. For example, large-scale biomass burning. Current volumes and forest management practices are not climate-friendly activities. Moreover, deforestation destroys valuable ecosystems that are essential for the long-term storage of carbon. To be clear: citizens who have signed the public initiative do not want to intensify over-grain under the green turn sign. Carbon capture is in principle also possible technically, artificially, by technology. However, these options are clearly too costly in the context of the next decade and do not operate on a large scale. In addition, the oil shale industry would generate more carbon than the foreseeable demand for the use of such raw materials. What about hydrogen? There is a lot of hope for hydrogen, but experts estimate that this energy carrier has only a limited use, such as in a specific heavy industry or in road transport. Hydrogen production is inevitably energy-intensive and transport-depositing with complex and considerable losses. And finally, nuclear energy. The idea of establishing a domestic nuclear power plant in Estonia has been repeatedly ruled out again and this time under the label of a small nuclear power plant, the technical feasibility of which is still only on paper for years to come. Even if the nuclear power plant were to be built in Estonia, it would become a technologically unsolvable and expensive nuclear waste problem and a major security and emergency threat. It is often mistaken that the people of Estonia are, in fact, primarily interested in the cost and independence of energy from other countries. But the environmental awareness survey at the beginning of my speech actually asked, among other things, about people's preference for energy production. Of the respondents, 47% considered the lowest possible damage to the environment to be the most important, while 26% of people considered the lowest possible damage to the environment to be the top priority, while independence was the top priority for 27%. The energy vision prepared by several environmental associations in February this year describes a solution that is as environmentally friendly as possible, cheap and also independent. In short, let me sum this up as follows: Firstly, energy production and consumption must decrease significantly, both through efficiency and overall energy savings. This is particularly true in the heavy industry and in transport, because the real grassroots we are seeking is the more possible the less energy production is needed together. However, it does not have to lead to a decrease in people's quality of life. We need smart solutions to do more with less. Such lower energy demand is a good prerequisite for achieving security of supply on the basis of purely renewable and sustainable sources. Of course, energy storage and smart management of consumption are also important. In addition, a very important component: with the help of cooperative forms of ownership, we should find the balance that we have sought for a long time, between the interests of municipalities, communities and developers. At the same time, we cannot miss the need to pay attention to the future of people whose socio-economic performance so far has been heavily dependent on fossil fuels and the related sector. In the case of a green turnaround, we should not forget the negative environmental impacts of renewable energy itself, both in Estonia and in general, because if we do not look at this wide picture, there is a risk that we will do more harm than good with our transition. But I stress the importance of the political framework here. In recent years Estonia's emissions have decreased sharply. You'd think you wouldn't have to do anything else. However, by looking more foresight, it can be said that Estonia now has a major head start that should be exploited, finalised and only then, when it reaches zero, kept its position. When it comes to framing, perhaps it would be more appropriate to look at this environmental issue at all, not as a race that definitely needs to be won, but as a joint effort, where the best we can do is necessary. There could be other changes in the way we think, and I hope that we will talk about this today during the debate. For example, instead of being a victim, you should be a hero. If we can solve the energy, production and consumption and storage of a distributed community on a country-wide scale, Tarmo Soomere, President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, estimates that we are more awesome than the creation of Skype and the basic technologies of bitcoin combined. If, for example, we can offer Ida-Viru County a new narrative that respects the past but looks boldly at the future, then we can say that we really have not left anyone behind with this transition. We need to reason instead of panic. Making large transfers is important for more democracy, not less. Climate-neutral 2035 certainly requires complex choices, because we cannot change everything while leaving everything the same. One good option is, for example, the maintenance of public assemblies, both national and regional, because it has been shown that informed citizens are prepared to consider and approve far greater steps than the politicians who represent them for the sake of environmental protection. However, as well as reducing impacts, of course, we also need to adapt. Unfortunately, some climate change has already locked in the system and extreme weather conditions are increasing. Some years it's too wet, some years it's too dry, sometimes it's too warm, then it's suddenly cool again. Predictability and vulnerability will be reduced. In the debate on the People's Initiative in the Committee on the Environment already a year and a half ago, we were asked whether we might be too late to act. Although it is impossible to confirm or disprove it, an increasing number of scientists are calling for discussions on how we can prepare ourselves for possible major social shocks and thus try to mitigate the negative effects somewhat. To sum it up. "Climate-neutral Estonia 2035" is necessary, as this way we can be the leaders of the green turn, not the winds of its pull. And this is possible because there is a widespread social understanding of the need for these changes, and the various measures have already been analysed sufficiently. This objective is valuable because it gives society a bold target, a clear framework for the private sector and a greater weight for biodiversity. Finally. "How dare you?"How much longer?"Listen to the scientists!" Fight for 1.5 degrees!" Helps with empty promises!'. I hope those sounded slogans came to you all. These are the headlines of the demonstrations that have been held here in front of Toompea Castle in the last two years by Reededs Name of the Future Climate Youths. Tomorrow is their 111st consecutive school trip. How much longer? I will conclude my presentation with the official response of the Riigikogu's own environmental committee to our popular initiative. The further the strategic decisions and the start of action, the more complex and expensive the move towards climate neutrality will be. Thank you for your time. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U7	Thanks to the waitress! There are indeed questions. Before going to questions, I put to the members of the Riigikogu that the question is one minute long. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your thoughts and thank you also for remembering Ida-Viru County. We certainly all agree that Estonia needs to step up its efforts to achieve climate neutrality. It is clear that this will also mean leaving oil shale underground over the next decade. Of course, we cannot do this by leaving the people of Ida-Virumaa working, just as you mentioned. This transition must be fair. How do you appreciate the government's current work in this direction, and what would you suggest you do to support the people of Ida-Virumaa in the context of a green turn, so that the panic you have spoken about is less, and these slogans on this topic are less, so that people are clear about what awaits them in 2035 or in 2050? How would you appreciate the government's work so far, and what would you suggest?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U9	Thank you. The Estonian Green Movement, whose representative I am here today, among other things, has actually been trying to keep the mathematics of oil shale in the picture for several decades. The message has always been the same: we should make a plan to gradually exit this sector. Today we have come to the point that this really fair transition process is under way. But you can see that it started at the very last moment that the problems had already occurred. So, work is on, but work started at a very, very late stage. It's maybe that kind of honest assessment. The context of the green turn. What does that mean for Ida-Viru County? This means diversifying the economy. So far, we are used to being one big sector that provides valuable work for many people. Like I said, the future is a little unpredictable. And I have framed it so that Ida-Viru County is not fighting climate change, but climate policy changes. This affects them very directly. Trade unions have also said that they now need climate-proof agencies. This is where we should move so that the very good people, who themselves express their wish to be useful and do good work, can be offered jobs. It's the one that could bring the grass to their table. And that would be a long-term plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U10	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U11	Thank you. Thank you, good Madis, and your fight buddies for this job! My question concerns your assessment of the current plans of the Estonian Government. This popular initiative was presented at a time when the government's Environment Minister was held by a party that was militantly anti-scientific and had a mist about climate change. Today, the situation has improved significantly in this respect, science is no longer denied, and this is undoubtedly a positive change in the key to environmental policy. But in what way would you appreciate the plans of the new government, how adequate are they to be in line with this 1.5 degree global warming goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U12	Thank you. One of the motives for this popular initiative was that we would have a date at all, because in 2019 it seemed like a very distant dream. And the fact that we already have a number of dates is good in itself. We have 2050 climate neutrality, 2040 end oil industry, 2035 oil shale electricity. That's a good result. Now the question is whether this is in line with reality. I say, like I showed you these numbers, this transition could happen faster. Are we ready for this if we believe that this could only happen in 2035 or 2040, but what really happens is 2030? Here it is necessary to calculate what is the real price of these different years. If we go more ambitious, at least we have some sort of clarity as to which direction we are going. And if we put this year in 2035 or 2040, the state will also commit itself to maintaining these industries until then, because it is allowed to do so. So I think the initial bar is set, but it can now be tuned a little bit more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U13	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U14	Thank you very much for today's presentation and review, but even greater recognition for what has been done so far! My question concerns forestry. The forest is not only bushes, trees, berries, mushrooms, animals and birds, but the forest is also a poor man's coat; the forest is a place where man rests, where he thinks and gathers his thoughts. Perhaps during the pandemic, the forest was also a very big savior. But my question: do you think that our forestry, in which a large part of the forest actually goes into the oven, even half of our forests, is climate change mitigating or rather amplifying? And I don't mean the old man's little oven here, which is for firewood, but I still mean the mass burning in the Narva ovens.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U15	Thank you. Since there are a lot of questions in order, I will answer briefly. This is not a climate-friendly approach, because if we urgently need to take steps to achieve this neutrality, the burning of wood will still release carbon dioxide heavily at the time of burning. That is why I mentioned 2030, which, according to current forecasts, is the moment when our forest no longer binds carbon but casts. This basically makes it impossible for us to achieve carbon neutrality by not having any other technology to get it back. And indeed, the forestry sector also needs major reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U16	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U17	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Honourable waitress! We have talked a lot about transport and its impact on the climate. And if we look at what this area is, where our emission levels have grown steadily over the years, it is, of course, transport. And the reason, of course, is for all of us to know: Estonia is a very cared society, we have more cars per person than we do in a much more prosperous Ireland. What would you advise the state, the municipality and the citizen to do to significantly reduce the environmental footprint in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U18	Thank you. I will limit myself to the answer to what the country could do. The state could give a hint of this and support these approaches, which would help to make such environmental changes at municipal level, so that people living in cities, for example, would be more comfortable and easier to choose from low-carbon transport than a car. The car is most comfortable, but the environment can be redesigned in such a way that the most convenient and logical way would be a bicycle or other microtransport, and the car would only come in fourth and fifth place. That would be one of the first directions to look in very strongly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U19	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am also in favour of ambitious targets for climate neutrality. Perhaps you could help explain your vision on the issue of reducing carbon emissions. We have a lot of politicians and, in fact, some large state companies explain that Estonia has already achieved its goals, because oil shale carbon emissions fell in the 1990s and we do not have to make much more effort here, and now we have time to take it easy, otherwise we will put our economy at risk. But it seems to me that there is absolutely no ambition. Something happened in the early 1990s, and after that, it's like there's nothing to do. Can you tell me what should actually be the meters or the references by which we can view this neutrality, the carbon reduction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U21	Thank you. The easiest measure in Estonia would probably be to look at the footprint per person, which is still very high because we have had long-term carbon intensive energy and few people at the same time. Maybe this is the number that lies least if we want to compare ourselves with other countries. There is no matter what was the base year, but what is this year and what is the number of people. It's a number you should be watching. Right now it's high, it has to come down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U22	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U23	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, Thank you for the initiative and the presentation. My question is on the nuclear power plant. Although it is simply because, if you look at how much confrontation actually arises from the construction of windmills in Estonia, I think it is not possible to build a nuclear power plant in Estonia. This agreement could probably not be reached anywhere in Estonia. Actually, I'm basically skeptical anyway. But the very simplified argument put forward by the speakers from the nuclear power plant, which often remains to be heard, is that oil shale electricity is going down, and then we need to produce electricity from something that is stable. And in Estonia, it has to exist. The wind and the sun don't feed us all the time. Would you mind telling me how this picture really looks to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U24	Thank you. In short, the whole energy system, the backbone of which is basic power, as it used to be, that we have large oil shale plants, and they always provide such a uniform base, and then some other source covers any jumps, that is a concept that is actually changing in the energy sector. Indeed, if we have more renewable and variable sources in the network, this network itself must also change. A good example is perhaps Germany, which is currently trying to make such a large-scale green turn, and there these network operators say it is a huge challenge, but it is very exciting. It hasn't been done before, but it's possible. So you have to be smart, and you have to use the technology that's growing faster these days. That mindset is changing, yes. But paradoxically, the new network doesn't exactly have a place for a nuclear power plant because it's either a hundred percent operational or completely shut down. This is what will cause problems in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U25	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! My question concerns the cost of a fair transition. Indeed, if we compare the investments related to the changeover in Germany or in many other places, we are talking about billions in a similar region, but we are talking about hundreds of millions. What are your calculations to ensure that social tensions are prevented and new jobs created? We can draw very beautiful plans, but they should also be very clearly covered by compensations and transition costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U27	Thank you. That's the right question. First of all, with regard to this example of Germany, the reason why these costs went so high was that they did not actually set the year of exit for decades either. So this process went on and on, it went on and on. This process will certainly be shorter in time in Estonia, which already reduces costs. And the question of what these costs will be, has been analysed in different versions. Today, an article from the University of Tartu was published in the media, where they looked at what would happen in such a crazy scenario if everyone were caught on the day. What should be the costs of the state, for example, to compensate for the period in which people are looking for new jobs? If, for example, new work is less profitable than it was before, should the difference be compensated and what its costs are. These numbers are there, they're not in my head right now, but that's definitely the thing that's being watched. The principle of a fair transition is that people do not become " street" or "unemployed" in any way, because they are actually good people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U28	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U29	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, the answer to your question is yes. I'm so sorry, I'm gonna drag you into day politics a little bit, but I don't know how else to ask this question. In my opinion, cities and, in turn, transport arrangements also have a huge responsibility to achieve climate-neutrality. Do you think this kind of car-promoting policy in our capital will contribute to climate neutrality or vice versa will lead us away from achieving climate goals? Once again, I am sorry that this is such a bit of a politically-charged issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U30	Thank you. Caring is still linked to the increase in greenhouse gas emissions. Electric cars, I think, are still far away in Estonia, hydrogen cars even further away. This approach is rather counterproductive to the green vision of Tallinn. That's a short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U31	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U32	Good manager! Good waitress! I have a specific question. In 2025, in Paris, diesel - powered cars will no longer be driven, and there are other cities. There are ambitious goals, for example, that we should switch to electric cars, but according to the scenario, there should be around 4,000 electric cars each year in Estonia, with fewer than 400 last year. My question is what should be done to achieve this five-year-old in three years or two years. Should diesel or petrol excise be significantly increased, or should other coercive methods be used so that we can switch quickly to electric cars? Because, after all, all these old diesel cars will be moving here to Eastern Europe in ten years' time, also to Estonia. How Can I Protect Myself?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U33	Thank you. France is also a good example of how this kind of coercion can achieve nothing. We've all heard about the yellowneck protests, which was also due to fuel excise. Yes, how to reduce this caring, that is a very good question, and that is where the debate is. Clearly, we cannot rely here on technology that is expensive and complex. Then the question is, what are the alternatives? There is also another interesting example from France that I have heard of, namely the opening of a measure to replace its old car waste with subsidies and electric bicycles. So at least for urban transport there are many alternatives. Estonia is a scattered country, and not everything goes everywhere with electric bikes, it has to be realistic, but in larger cities, offering better or cheaper alternatives is probably a sensible topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U34	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In Estonia, the level of renewable energy production is still awkwardly low compared to neighbouring countries. We are less than three to four times here in Latvia and Finland, with over half of the renewable energy in Sweden. What, then, do you think we should do to make a significant leap in the production of renewable energy? You already mentioned the nuclear issue. What type of energy should be put on the table? Or is it energy storage? In the Azores, for example, with the help of the sun and wind, sea water is pumped into artificial lakes and hydrostations are opened when there is no wind or sun. So it's guaranteed 24/7 energy. What should be done in Estonia? Where would you contribute in the future Estonia's resources to increase this production of renewable energy, to achieving a balance in the energy balance? Everyone says, like here today, that with the wind and the sun, we can't feed ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U36	Thank you. The longer answer would be in this energy vision of the environmental associations, but, to sum up, it is precisely this dissipation and dissipation from renewable energy sources that is the direction you should look at. But in all of this, it is very important to find the right model for bringing both developers and locals to a common table. It has been one of the greatest obstacles to the way that projects simply get stuck in endless disputes. Here is the Danish example very good. There we have found this form of cooperative production, where these local people are themselves shareholders and owners of these distributed production plants. Recording is, of course, very important. There's a lot of technologies. Battery technology is, again, a more distant future. In the nearest future, as you mentioned, hydrosolutions. At the same time, besides storing electricity, there is also heat storage. That's what people in the Department of Economic Affairs and Communications are thinking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U37	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U38	Thank you. Just as you asked the Chamber at the beginning of your report, I ask you whether it is hypocritical to talk about the ultimate climate neutrality here, while taxpayers' money is being invested in the construction of the new oil factory in Eesti Energia. I would understand if the private sector took the risk of investing in the production of fossil fuels. If, on the other hand, taxpayers' money is being channelled through Eesti Energia to build a new oil plant, what does this have to do with climate goals? Is it not hypocritical to invest taxpayers' money in the production of fossil fuels and, at the same time, to ask the European Union for money for a green turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U39	Thank you. I will then try to answer this question from the point of view of environmental associations. How can an oil factory be seen as green? Through where the emissions go. We often hear that oilworks produce is climate-friendly, because compared to electricity production, the oil shale oil plant is about 60% less carbon. But where's the other 30% going? It's actually the same barrel of oil that goes for export and burns abroad. Once again, if you look at the big picture, it doesn't make much difference, but in terms of statistics within Estonia, it's like an environmentally beneficial act. And this investment has really been raised as a topic; it is currently in litigation on the initiative of these same climate young people. Our position is, of course, that it is lost money. It is unlikely that it will be possible to earn that money back, this investment, because we see that climate policy is becoming ever tougher. I think if it's still possible to take it back, whoever has the power could do it and put it somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U40	Andres Metsoja, please! Please, Andres!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U41	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question to you concerns......and what is happening on the roads. [[The connection's breaking up.]] How do you feel about building rail connections...?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U42	Sorry, Andres, we don't have a proper connection with you. Andres, we can't hear you properly. Shall we call it off? Let's take that question again, put it back in line. Let's take Yoko Alender in the meantime. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U43	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, thank you for this petition and thank you for your presentation. You mentioned some positive examples, some not so positive examples from other countries, of how climate neutrality is progressing. Can you also give some good examples from which Estonia could learn how to shape climate policy with scientists and entrepreneurs? Where is it organised well, precisely on this level of leadership?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U44	Thank you. Again, France stands in our way. After these yellowneck riots, such a decent community was made, random samples of people were taken, they were told about problems, and possible solutions were offered. And that is where many of the initiatives that we now see slowly becoming laws came from. This is one example. There are certainly many more qualified people than me to answer this question, but I know that there is such a group of active citizens in Estonia who are currently very closely looking at it from a technical point of view and wondering how this could be organised in Estonia. As far as I know, the city of Tallinn should do such a thing in a certain field this year or next year, and then we'll see how it goes. But our hopes are great, because in other countries it can be seen that it is precisely on those issues that politicians may find it difficult to take a decision on, because it is too complicated or uncomfortable, the people dare to risk it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U45	Thank you. Let's try Andres Metsoja next. Please, Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U46	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U47	It is. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U48	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you very much for these thoughts. Unfortunately, in society, any newer initiative like this gets a hell of a response. My question comes in the context of the development of rail transport. Is it... should... the proportion of road transport... plus the national... How are your opinions? ... [[The connection's breaking up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U49	It seems to me that... I don't know if you understand the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U50	I can tell you something about rail transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U51	It seemed that there was a question of rail transport, but we didn't exactly understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U52	Perhaps the question was how environmental associations saw the development of rail transport on the one hand and, at the same time, the increase in road transport in parallel. We feel that we should choose one or the other and rather rail transport, because it is more effective. Specific projects. In the case of Rail Baltic, the fiery question is the choice of the route with which environmental associations disagree. But if we look at the direction of Tallinn, for example, Narva, then there is definitely a quick transport between Narva and Tallinn, one thing that would definitely help this area, in many ways. So we'll definitely support that. There would be faster and more comfortable connections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U53	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U54	[[Remote connection]] Yes, thank you! Dear waitress, I will start by saying: I am not against any innovation, but I would like things to be balanced. The public initiative and environmental awareness are a very interesting set of words. If these environmentally conscious people, all a hundred percent, were as environmentally conscious as they should be for ten days without hot water and without a cell phone, I would be very grateful to them. Saving the world is fashionable, but it's also economical. Reducing CO2 emissions is a growing global business. But we need balanced development. I ask you if you have thought about whether you know what the negative effects of renewable energy are. How does it improve the world? For example, the windmills'rotating blades are enemies of birds, etc. Wind infrasound has negative effects on terrestrial and marine animals. Wind parks can cause a global redistribution of cloud cover and precipitation patterns due to changes in surface heat flows...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U55	Time! Time, Merry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U56	...the same with solar parks. I would ask you about these negative effects of renewable energy. How can we reduce them in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U57	Thank you. This is a very good question and a very important point, which, I must admit, also many environmentalists often forget. Each technology has its own impact and every way of producing energy has its own cost. Sometimes we see it and sometimes we don't. Let's see that the beautiful windmill spins and that's it, but somewhere the material from which to make this windmill had to come, and somewhere the blades of this windmill have to go. That is why the first message of environmental associations is always this: achieving the current level of energy production through renewable energy is already very costly in terms of the environment. We do not see such a future that there are windmills everywhere, and there are sun parks everywhere, as far as the eye can tell. We need to think about how much energy we need first and then how we can cover it. I could probably talk more about the negative effects of wind energy and solar energy. But I'm just saying that they exist, they're made aware, and that's why the choice is complicated. Every choice is, in some ways, very bad, but then you have to consider what is done and what effects we are willing to endure and what we are not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U58	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! [[Sounds like music.]] Tarmo, ask a question! Tarmo, you have a chance to ask a question. He doesn't seem to want to. Let's go to the next question. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U59	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! I ask you, according to your understanding, what are the possibilities of energy production in Estonia in 2035, with which we provide Estonia with energy security. I've realized that hydrogen isn't coming yet, the wind is bad, the sun is bad, the oil shale is very bad, nuclear power is very, very bad. So what are these solutions? Often, the same people who say that everything we do today is bad, then on the other side of the front line, when there is some kind of windmill or a park planned to be built somewhere. Are you ready to become a front speaker and go from village to village and rural municipality to talk to the same people about why we need to do one solution or another? I would love to hear what it is that guarantees Estonia energy security by 2035.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U60	Thank you. I may mention these two terms, which have often been exchanged even and sometimes in these debates. One is the security of energy supply, which means that we can get energy at any time we need. The second is energy security, which is the kind of more military term to show what happens when we are completely cut off from the rest of the world, and whether the lights are still on. Energy availability or security of supply, if we rely on Elering's research, will be guaranteed by 2030, after that, the analyses will probably go on as well. This analysis has been carried out on the basis of existing capacities leaving the market and on the basis of additional capacities. But when we talk about energy security, distributed production is actually a very good solution, because, in terms of security issues, the scattered target is much easier to protect or more vulnerable, because it is scattered across Estonia. Yes, energy is less then, but there is another component that is not very much discussed, namely consumption management. How can we do that if there is more energy, then we use it smoothly more than there is less, then we change our consumption patterns a little bit, and we don't even notice that there's a big difference? All of this side has now been less discussed, but it is very important, because it is a very important part of the future energy system. It could also guarantee energy security if something went terribly wrong. However, external connections and good relations with partners are certainly crucial in terms of normal security of energy supply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U61	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U62	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation, but even more for your answers. I listened with interest. Indeed, people see this inevitability, this awareness exists and 70% actually realise that change is needed. Technology exists, basically choose what you want, which is the technological solution for both energy and heat production and, at the same time, climate neutrality. There is a scientific consensus, a scientific knowledge of different solutions. The government also has an understanding that climate neutrality needs to be targeted. Declarively, it's like it's all there. For the first time, we also have money, indeed billions, to decide where to invest it. It cannot be paid out for pensions or put into healthcare or education, and it must be used for investment. What's the big deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U63	Thank you. The fact that Estonian people are very aware, but do not act, eventually emerged from this environmental awareness study. It seems to me that a little of this also applies to government administration, we are aware, but for some reason we are not operating. The environmental associations see that it is first necessary to set an objective here so that we can take action. And that is why our popular initiative is, in fact, very boring. We would like these development plans to be opened there, because these two development plans, the fundamentals of climate policy and the development plan for the energy economy, provide a great deal of input to the other, next, development plans. In our environmental work, we have constantly clashed with the fact that yes, the situation in the field is something new and different, but the development plans say it has to be this way. That is why we want the development plans to be opened, and what the year will enter should be a forum for discussion. We put out a number here, but it certainly doesn't have to be like this. It must be a comprehensive and prudent decision. But we see that the goal needs to be set inspirationally, so we could actually start acting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U64	Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U65	Thank you, good manager. Good speaker! I am pleased to ask you my first question from this point of view. I will come back to Mr Metsoja's question and ask about the development of the railway. Indeed, the development of railways is very important. And in terms of climate-neutrality goals, what our trains are driving is also important. Do you think we'll continue electrification or any other alternatives? I'll also give you a hint: yesterday I brought a hydrogen car in front of this house to taste, if you want, you can try it. But I'd expect your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U66	Thank you. I'm convinced that the hydrogen truck is driving. But the question is, will it escalate? For any of these options to be carried out by this railway, either to leave in its current form or to put electricity on it or to put hydrogen on it, there must still be infrastructure in the back that allows it. In the case of electricity, the question is usually very nice, but where does this electricity come from, is it green electricity or black or some kind of intermediate color? It's the same with hydrogen. The reason why environmental associations see that hydrogen is problematic is that it is largely produced from fossil fuels, which of course have carbon footprints. If hydrogen were produced purely on the basis of renewable energy, of course it would be more environmentally friendly, but once again, if every scooter starts to run on hydrogen, that is questionable, because this technology is just quite complicated. So there is an electrification in Estonia right now. I'm not an expert, and I don't know what the options are, but it looks like the electrical discharge is technically feasible. And in the case of hydrogen, I know he's running experimental trains, but maybe there's no fuel left for this one train in Estonia. However, I am certainly not the greatest expert here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U67	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The word "climate neutrality" reminds me very much of the perpetuum of the word pair, the mobile, something that cannot be done without breaking the laws of physics. You're exhibiting the fact that we're using wind power, solar power, and so on. But to produce all these energy providers, you need a huge variety of metals. For example, one of the windmills in the sea requires hundreds of tons of copper that needs to be extracted, processed and enriched, and there are rare earth metals, etc., aren't there? So I'm gonna ask you straight. You said the size of the footprint was like that meter. How big is this footprint, which, let's say, is needed for this process to make the components necessary for energy production?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U69	Thank you. There is an increasing number of research work on this, which shows that the initial estimates may have been too optimistic in terms of how renewable energy can solve all the problems and how it can be produced in large quantities without any problems. There is also now a heated debate on the green turn of the European Union that Ahah, a very large number of new wind farms, which are the real consequence of its mineral resources or its demand or pressure on them. And that pressure is very high. What is proposed and what the environmental associations are saying is that we need to take this quantity down a lot and think about how we could still live up to this smaller amount. What the European Union is offering is such an excellent process to see where all the resources come from, to come from a very fair place and very... [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U70	Yeah, finish it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U71	The European Union is trying to review its policy so that it is fair and not harmful, but environmental associations are actually sceptical. Is he an ever-movement, or is climate neutrality impossible? There's always this component that we can't take human activity completely to zero. The fact that we're exhaling carbon dioxide has a tiny effect. But SEI's analysis showed that from 2050 they estimate that a few or three million tonnes of emissions will remain in Estonia, but we have this forestry and land use sector that will compensate for it. There is the question of whether we have enough compensation capacity and how much energy we need, and then there is, yes, yet the question of how we achieve it. But surely this quantity must be smaller in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U72	Thank you. The time for questions has run out. There are some other questions that didn't fit into the time frame to answer. Imre Sooääre has a procedural question. But, Imre, if it's not procedural, then the question I won't have asked. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U73	[[Remote connection]] Yeah, it's a procedural question. Good manager! Since Mr Tarmo Kruusimäe, who himself is very keen to fight for copyright, has just broadcast a work in public, and now he has to pay royalty in connection with this work. And I have a request that the board of the Riigikogu or Mr Kruusimäe himself pay this royalty because the authors are supported by every euro during this difficult time. From now on, the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act could provide for a specific time, for example on Monday after a free microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U74	Thank you. Very witty observation! There is no doubt that royalty will have to be paid. No one of us is a communist, well, almost no one, but the performer has the obligation to pay this fee. Let's move on to our agenda. Next, I call on Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, whose presentation lasts ten minutes, and 20 minutes for questions and answers. Please, Yoko!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U75	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests and people who are watching us over the Internet! I would like to begin with the words of one of the speakers who gave up speaking to us today. Not that he didn't want to, but he's working on it. As long as we discussed, formed a new government, dealt with the exclusion of the corona, the private sector undertook to draw up a climate-neutrality strategy when it was brought under the auspices of the green tiger, because it was seen as indispensable for the competitiveness of Estonian entrepreneurship. The strategy is expected to be completed in the second half of the summer and we hope that by then the state will also be ready to take the rivers to the sea together. May the words of the absent speaker of our debate be sent today: there is no credible alternative to the climate-neutral economic model. The so-called Dasgupta Biodiversity Report of the UK Ministry of Finance was recently published. It proved to me how important the power of the word is. The report translated into the language of nature's finances. For some reason, it even made the question of faith, which has actually been known all along, so clear and unambiguous. We have one planet, all our resources are from here. We need to learn to deal with our assets in a more sustainable way. In addition to the profit and loss account, nature has a balance sheet, i.e. the preservation, growth and decline of value, whether it comes from any kind of raw material or from another nature. In order for us to have raw materials, we must take care of nature's ability to regenerate. In finance, it is known that risks are mitigated and sustainability is guaranteed by the diversity of portfolio. The same is true in nature: diversity guarantees sustainability. Without biodiversity, the planet will not survive climate change. In about 20 years, production per capita on the planet has doubled, while natural assets per capita have decreased by 40%. The Dasgupta report recognises that we need 1.6 planets to maintain our current standard of living. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly recommend reading this report or, at the very least, reading its summary. This helps us to understand that tiger jump is not only necessary for the tiger, but above all for us humans. Our survival depends entirely on the health of the planet. Climate scientists recognise that the number of forests on the planet is increasing, yet, due to both climate change and forest management, the ability of forests to maintain a vital carbon balance on the planet is decreasing. So far, forest and vegetation have seized a third of man-made emissions. If there were no vegetation, the warming of the climate would be a quarter stronger than today. It is also absorbed by the seas of the world. The biosphere saves almost 55% of our emissions. So it is vital for us to keep nature this way. Thanks to scientists, our world's picture is also expanding. We know we've blown up over 2,000 billion tons of carbon dioxide. The climate has warmed at an average of 1.1 degrees. Until the last major climate report, the IPCC report, we knew that a critical increase in temperature of 1.5 degrees would threaten us in about 60 years' time. Now we know that the temperature of 1.5 degrees, or even 2 degrees, is probably already in the next decade. Think about what you did ten years ago! It feels like yesterday. The IPCC report compares the effect of a one-and-a-half-degree warming with that of a 2-degree warming. For example, the half-degree gap is reflected in significantly lower economic growth in both rich and poor countries, in rising sea levels of 10 centimeters more, in salt water poisoning farmland, the risk of drought and heat waves is increasing even more, and the risk of climate migration, etc. Mankind will not die out at 2 degrees of warming, but it is still important how much we can stop it, how quickly we can adapt to climate change. Now about the petition. Thank you very much to everyone who signed it. This is, in my opinion, one of the most meaningful and serious petitions that I have had the honour of dealing with in the Riigikogu for five years. The Committee on the Environment has discussed a petition in a total of seven sessions in 2019 and 2020 and has also consulted other committees. I have examined the minutes of these sittings in preparation for today, and I suggest that you also examine them. They're very meaningful. One of the details caught my eye. Namely, the Chairman of the Estonian Energy Council said so in one session, these are the words of Väino Kaldoja on behalf of Eesti Energia: we need precise instructions from the government. Now they are in the new government's cooperation agreement, a clear direction has been set. We will not invest in fossil fuels and exit oil shale energy in the next 20 years. I will briefly bring a few more important initiatives in the climate perspective that are in progress. The development plan for the energy economy will be renewed and the transition to renewable energy will be accelerated in both production and consumption. The Ministry of Defence has radars that release areas for wind power production in Ida-Virumaa. A theme plan for marine areas is coming up to speed up the establishment of sea wind parks. A hydrogen roadmap is also under way, the first Estonian companies are aspiring to a sectoral IBC pan-European funding scheme. In order to encourage people to engage in a community-based energy economy, local renewable energy cooperatives will also be encouraged. The local benefit instrument created in the administration of the Minister for Public Administration should motivate investments in the region. In fact, the whole public sector could take a step-by-step turn to green energy, setting an example and switching to renewable energy consumption. Of course, energy efficiency will continue to be improved. Transport is a large part of Estonia's emissions and so that people can choose their own way of moving in urban environments, save money for one or even two car leases from the family budget, we need to develop comfortable, efficient public transport and a secure network of cycling routes. To this end, too, the country will be able to provide assistance with the support of the European Union. Fortunately, investments in multi-level intersections and four-way roads, which are proven to result only in more caring, do not qualify for these subsidies. The Ministry of the Environment is preparing a large sectoral development plan "Spring." There are also important biodiversity goals. In one of the presentations, a legitimate remark was made by the representative of the Sa Koosloomus, who asked whether the development plan for forestry should not be drawn up on the basis of the objective of biodiversity. Perhaps a more holistic approach should indeed be sought here. In forestry, it is important to support the European Union's initiative to revise the Renewable Energy Directive and the sustainability criteria for biomass. The Committee on the Environment has recently unanimously supported this direction. Finally, a few specific new proposals that we could take together immediately. Following the example of other Nordic countries, we could create a climate body that brings together leaders, scientists and entrepreneurs at the State Chancellery. Together, the Climate Council would draw up an action plan to achieve climate neutrality in Estonia by 2050. As I mentioned at the beginning of the report, the private sector is already halfway there. We're going to meet them, and we're going to go faster together! We will further set climate neutrality as a national objective and will initiate the renewal of the [document] 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050'. Since this is a document of the Riigikogu, we could start with it from this house. All your contributions, ladies and gentlemen, dear representatives of the people, are welcome and necessary. The fate of our children and grandchildren depends on it. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U76	Thank you. There are indeed questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When we talk about climate issues, we cannot miss the fact that professional preparation for jobs and jobs in the green economy is a crucial prerequisite for us to make the green economy work and save the climate at all. People need to develop, implement, improve technologies, etc. I'm asking your opinion. Does Estonia currently do enough to prepare people in our education system for this specialty?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U78	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Urve! I think this is one of the key issues. I think they do and they do from a very early age. This is demonstrated, in my opinion, by the climate awareness of our young people, but this is where the more specific level of higher education comes from. Certainly here could be more precise, could be better, and certainly the issue of higher education funding is one of the places where the shoe is known to squeeze, [and where to think] how to involve more private money. I might also say that this term for the green economy [is outdated]. It is more appropriate to think that the whole economy is a green economy. It is no longer such a stand-alone type of economy. In my opinion, the private sector also points to this by saying that there is no alternative to a climate-neutral economic model. It's like this penetrating paradigm we're in, and actually it's been studied and proven by the big American companies. One of America's largest financial investment companies, I don't remember the name of it at the moment, just recently studied the productivity of green investment and proved that this is the direction that is profitable and that provides a return.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U79	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is a pleasure to hear an adequate talk on climate policy. Since you are now also representing a government union here, the question concerns the plans of the new government, which are certainly more adequate than those of the previous [government], as I said before, but still, in my opinion, insufficient. You quoted Mr Kaldoja, who said that the message is now clear: no more investment in fossil fuels. At the same time, it is actually a schizophrenic situation: the same Estonian Energia invests further in fossil fuels, building a new oil factory, but this one facility alone increases Estonia's emissions by 5%. Somehow a schizophrenic message: on the one hand, we come out of oil shale and, on the other hand, we spend hundreds of millions to build one big oil factory. Does the government intend to stop it, and if not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U81	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! Indeed, our cooperation in the Committee on the Environment is, in my opinion, very constructive and many thoughts coincide. As far as this investment in the oil plant is concerned, I will answer honestly: I have not understood whether or not the construction of this plant is being carried out. We will ask the representatives of Eesti Energia when we meet them next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U82	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U83	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm asking about the cars. You mentioned in your report that this is a bad source, which is why Estonia is criticised and probably fairly. You also mentioned the need for public transport and the need for light traffic. I sign these are important issues. At the same time, several European Union countries have made a fundamental decision to prohibit the placing on the market of cars with an internal combustion engine by 2030 or 2035. Should Estonia, where one of the European Union's most polluting fleets, as we know, be doing the same or not? Or is our society not yet ready for this green step?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U84	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! The previous waitress, Madis Vasser, pointed out well the French example of such strict bans. There were protests and riots in the clinkers that resulted from a slight increase in fuel prices. I think that, at first, we are in such a state in Estonia that people in many places actually do not have this free choice today, whether to choose public transport, bicycle or walking, because the space simply does not favour these sustainable choices. If, as decision-makers, as designers of this space, we have not fulfilled our obligations in local governments and offered these sustainable choices, if a person simply does not get to work [in due time], because public transport is so much slower than car movement, then I do not think there is any way to talk about a ban.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U85	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, These ambitious targets that we have set today also require action to be taken. Just the words and just the fact that we are making some kind of rule in this country, probably not enough means, certainly not enough, history has shown this very well, but it is necessary to lay down rules that guide people or businesses to take decisions in this regard. As a rule, taxes are the best way to do this. For example, if people don't sort the garbage, those who don't sort it would pay more for the garbage. Or no matter whether [we charge] the production of packaging or other items. Last night, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus said there would be no new taxes. I wonder what your opinion is. Is the introduction of taxes to meet climate objectives something you would support?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U87	Thank you. Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! In fact, we are already channelling a great deal of consumption through taxes today. One of the issues that has arisen at European Union level is that, if we look at the exit of fossil fuels on a pan-European basis, in the period in which these transitions started, the burning of biomass, including wood waste and forestry waste, and the use of wood in industry which is unsuitable for other purposes, were also counted as renewable energy. In the case of Estonia, this is actually a very large proportion of our renewable energy, and this is what we are actually subsidising today through support for renewable energy. It has been approved by the European Union. Recently, scientists have again published new knowledge and it is seen that, in fact, this thing has gone very far and its impact on the climate in the next few decades, where we need these changes, is very important. The European Union has therefore also asked the Member States whether these sustainability criteria should be revised. So some of these tax changes, I think, are definitely coming. In the same way, all CO2 trading and the introduction of new sectors into carbon trading are actually subject to taxes. Fortunately, when you mentioned waste, the area of waste management in Estonia does not contribute to too much emissions. It has been pointed out here that 2% will be contributed and, above all, emissions from solid waste storage will increase emissions. But in the same way, we actually encourage the burning of biomass with this same support for renewable energy, including municipal waste. Of course, we have agreed in the coalition that, since previous governments have played so much with taxes, we must give a certain tax peace. Today we are still in a deep corona crisis and we have to get out of it. But I think that, in fact, these discussions are still going on all the time. In a fashion or in another, excise duties and taxes are certainly one way of directing people's behaviour towards more sustainable choices. They're definitely part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U88	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U89	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Good Yoko! Just as the oil shale sector has received a clear message, are similar clear messages applicable to forestry and the use of bio-waste? Madis Vasser, answering my question, said there was a need for action. Kaja Kallas, when he took office, said nicely that he would agree with the social democrats that the mass burning of the forest in Narva furnaces is madness. There's nothing to argue with. It has now been months, but this bill, which allows mass burning, has not yet been withdrawn from the proceedings by the government. Can you, Yoko, confirm that the word of Kaja Kallas is valid and that this bill will not become a law during this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U90	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Riina! I certainly can't confirm that. I think there is no way I can confirm or promise what the members of the government are doing or what we are doing and what we are going to decide. But I firmly believe that subsidising the burning of wood in Narva boilers, which is very large, would certainly also affect the pressure of cutting. We have talked a lot in the Commission and, in fact, environmental associations agree that forest residues, chipswood, branches, energy bushes, these are all the things that are reasonable to use in smaller plants in heat production and cogeneration. But as far as Auvere is concerned, as far as I know, this bill has not moved forward. That, too, is a message. I would also say that in reality, of course, the question of how to produce heat in Narva is a question that needs a solution. I know that negotiations are under way with the European Union on how to modernise it and whether it would be reasonable to establish a smaller station that is separate. What happens to Auvere, in this respect, I think I just don't have the competence to give all these answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U91	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U92	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The achievement of climate neutrality by 2035 is more closely linked to the pace of electrification of both transport and industry, which is more likely to indicate an increase in electricity consumption both in Estonia and in the European Union as a whole. In the near future, a series of power generation units will be shut down in the European Union, in 2025 we will untie ourselves from the Russian electricity grid, and the last winter has shown that the green solutions are not enough to cover the peak load under adverse weather conditions. In addition, the previous rapporteur referred to high-risk places in terms of security of supply in Elering's review until 2030, and since I did not have time to ask Mr Vasser, I will now ask you. What controlled electricity source do you consider to ensure the security of electricity supply in Estonia in 2035 under conditions where there is a shortage of electricity in the European Union market rather than a professional?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U93	Thank you. I think that if I knew the answer to this [question], I would be working in a slightly different position. But I think it's up to all of us to do how this controlled power develops and what it's like. The same energy production plan, mentioned by Madis Vasser, is actually made up of very different forms of energy, and there are still very many options within which to move. I think I certainly do not have enough knowledge of all these technologies to say exactly what this [controlled power] is in 2035 but obviously security of supply must be guaranteed. However, we still consider that we have a common electricity market. It is certainly important to know how much electricity we have to import and how much [electricity] is produced locally. But here maybe it would be important to mention one subject that maybe has not yet been discussed. We are talking about constant growth, and many new technologies are also pushing even more consumption. At the same time, there is also a need to address how to get the brakes on the growth of consumption, how to change these networks, to take advantage of digital solutions, so that there is not enough waste to make the networks smart and consume while there are no peak loads. It is a whole world in its own right, but I think that there must be a guarantee of consumer security, of course there is no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U94	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U95	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Dear waitress Yoko! I have a question of cutting volumes. As you well know, in the Riigikogu, we have views of the wall-to-wall. How do you feel if ecologists are right that cutting volumes need to be reduced by a third in Estonia as a matter of urgency, both to ensure biodiversity and to achieve climate goals, or are they over-estimating their estimates?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U96	Thank you. Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good questioner! Yesterday there was a discussion on forestry, where the Estonian Nature Fund also participated, and knowledge was also given about what alternatives could be to such intensive logging, for example through permanent foresting. It came out very well of this debate that the actual volume of felling will certainly have an impact on the whole, but it is also possible to do a great deal of damage to nature in the case of lower felling volumes. This is certainly not the only aspect of forest health. Maybe it'll give us a little bit of crap, that we're looking for this kind of sacred grail, this one cutting volume number, but it really matters what the forest management practice is, what the wood we can get out of the woods is. I was very interested in the presentation of the representative of the Finnish company Innofor during this debate yesterday, where he spoke about how Finland is increasingly moving towards permanent forest management and how good these results are. I think it's definitely something we could look into. I know it's being done, it's being studied, but maybe you could also look more at the practice of our neighbours.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U97	Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U98	Thank you, good manager. Good Yoko! At the end of your presentation, a very good proposal has actually been made that a climate body should be set up. I think it is an excellent proposal, and I hope that it will pass this presentation. But I'm asking your opinion on this climate. You have pointed out that they are the authors of the action plan, but would extend it further so that they are also project leaders for the implementation of the action plan, so that this action plan does not simply remain an action plan, but will also be the next steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U99	Thank you. Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Timo, my colleague from the Committee on the Environment. Absolutely agree. In my opinion, the only objective of the action plans is that they should be acted upon. Perhaps so much more of this climate body idea that I also studied the activities of the respective communities of neighbours, Finland and Sweden. There, indeed, are these collections available, delivered and provide very good input. I think one value is this input, but the other value is that it is really being done together, so that is what we all have in common, and that is what we are going to do in the future or in parallel with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U100	Thank you, waitress. Our question-and-answer time is over. Unfortunately, everyone couldn't ask, but that's the deal. Let's keep going. The next item is Tõnis Mölder, Minister for the Environment, whose presentation lasts ten minutes and there are 20 minutes for questions and answers. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! To begin with, it is unspoken to see real people and to be physically here in the Riigikogu for several months. So once again, thank you for this opportunity to discuss an issue as important as climate-neutral Estonia. Thank you also to all previous speakers for this good and clear overview. It has certainly been a very meaningful and intense debate. Estonia's climate policy is certainly affected not only by Estonia, but still has to be approached globally. Estonia's views on these issues will certainly be influenced by decisions taken both at UN level and at European Union level. In 2016, Estonia ratified the Paris Climate Agreement, whose main objective is to keep the global average temperature increase preferably below 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial times. A European Green Agreement has also been adopted at European level, which is an action plan to change the sustainability of the European Union's economy. Achieving climate neutrality in the European Union by 2050, while ensuring a fair transition, is a key to achieving this. I stress that this fair transition is certainly very important. The legally binding objective of climate neutrality is that these important objectives will soon also be set in European climate law. Estonia supports climate-neutrality across the European Union by 2050 and by agreeing on the activities of the European Union. This will ensure that all Member States contribute to the objective and create a level playing field in the market. What is important here is that we, as a whole, monitor that when we make these decisions, we do not put Estonia in a worse position in terms of competition. The objectives of Estonian climate policy are formulated in two documents adopted in 2017. The basics of climate policy for 2050 will set Estonia's long-term goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. In order to achieve this, the interim target of reducing emissions by around 70% by 2030 has been agreed. The coalition agreement and the government's decisions have undoubtedly been quite ambitious with the coming of the new coalition on this issue as well. One of the major priorities of the government is to increase Estonia's climate ambition, including achieving full climate neutrality by 2050. This objective is already in the integrated development strategy "Estonia 2035," which is currently being approved by the Riigikogu. We are also planning to introduce greater climate ambition into national development documents. Climate neutrality plays an important and central role in abandoning fossil fuels, including oil shale, as an energy source. Thus, in 2035 the government has set itself the goal of shutting down oil shale electricity production. I emphasise the generation of electricity. We can already see today that, in addition to the environmental problem, oil shale electricity production is no longer competitive from an economic point of view. We must pay attention to the environmental impact and the environmental footprint of oil production from oil shale even less than today. At the end of the production of oil shale electricity, it is important to emphasise the words "security of supply" and "energy security." This undoubtedly relates precisely to these two words, "energy security" and "security," which is why the next few years will be extremely important in order to increase the share of electricity from alternative sources and to introduce storage technologies. As an option, a country should also consider the deployment of a new generation of nuclear energy. To this end, we have set up a national working group on nuclear energy to analyse the need for nuclear energy and the various ways in which it can be implemented in Estonia. There is no doubt that this is a long process and there must be consensus in making these decisions. The use of oil shale also has a great deal to do with Ida-Virumaa, its jobs, its economy and social policy. All the steps we are taking in this direction must be balanced and take account of the particularities and interests of this region. No man in Ida-Viru County must fall behind in this process and we must be able to move forward only together and in a balanced way. Achieving climate goals. National projections for greenhouse gas emissions up to 2050 will help to assess the achievement of the current climate targets. You'll see them on the next schedule. Looking at current trends, according to the latest or 2019 inventory, total greenhouse gas emissions in Estonia have decreased by 64% compared to 1990 levels. There was a particularly strong decline in 2019, when emissions fell by 27% compared to 2018. Forecasts show that we are moving towards meeting the agreed targets in the 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050' document. Existing measures will achieve a reduction of 69% by 2030 and 77% by 2050. At the same time, it is clear that there is a need to step up efforts and raise existing targets and targets in order to achieve climate neutrality. The sector's contribution to the climate goals so far. In order to achieve the 2050 objective of climate neutrality, it is important that all sectors contribute. This graph shows the historical trajectory of greenhouse gas emissions from different sectors, based on national greenhouse gas inventories. This includes energy, transport, agriculture, waste, forestry, industrial processes and the use of products. The graph shows that greenhouse gas emission reductions have taken place at the highest level in the energy sector, where emissions fell by 31% over the year. The significant reduction in emissions from oil shale power plants is the result of this significant decline. The production of oil shale energy in dust boilers has significantly reduced the carbon footprint of the sector. This has been largely due to the increase in the market price of CO2 since 2018. The dust boilers currently in use are already at the end of their life. Moreover, the sector has moved more towards oil production, where more energy can be recovered from one tonne of oil shale and is less burdensome than the production of oil shale electricity to the environment and the climate. Newer technologies and new technologies for carbon capture, use and storage will play an important role in continuing to reduce the emissions of oil shale energy. To introduce them on an industrial scale, we must also contribute to developing their technological readiness and economic efficiency. In order to strike a balance between greenhouse gas emissions and removals, significant efforts must also be made in other sectors. I would like to emphasise here the importance of reducing emissions from the transport and buildings sectors, as well as the role of land use change and the forestry sector, as this is the only sector with the potential for carbon sequestration. Reaching climate-neutral Estonia is possible and potential long-term profitable in all areas of commitment and strategically smart investments. In 2019 the Stockholm Estonian Institute in Tallinn carried out an analysis of the possibilities of increasing the climate ambition of Estonia, according to which the total amount of investment required to achieve climate neutrality in Estonia is 17 billion euros. The public and private sectors must contribute, with forecasts of 4.2 billion from the public and 13.1 billion from the private sector. According to the analysis, investments in energy efficiency in buildings, transport and industry need to be significantly accelerated over the period 2021 to 2030, to shift electricity and heat production to a significant volume of renewable energy sources, and to increase the share of climate-neutrality energy carriers in transport. They're... Oh, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U102	I can give you three more minutes if I have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U103	Yeah, please give me three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U104	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U105	These are activities to which the State has already invested in the past. Since 2010, the state of Estonia has supported the energy-efficient full renovation of more than 1000 apartment buildings through the KredEx Foundation. The KIK, or Environmental Investment Centre, has supported the construction and upgrading of 111 km of district heating pipes and the renovation and construction of 102 megawatts of district heating boilers. It is also important to note that railway electrification and the construction of Rail Baltic infrastructure have started. We are working together to use the various sources of European Union funding and state budget resources even more carefully to carry out the green and digital revolution as quickly as possible, which would not leave behind any people or regions of Estonia. According to the European Commission's proposal, a total of EUR 3.37 billion of cohesion policy grants will be allocated to Estonia by 2021 to 2027, a significant part of which will be directed towards achieving climate objectives. At least 37% of the Cohesion Fund activities and 30% of the ERDF will contribute to the climate targets from the new period. On the upcoming slide, you will see these activities supported by the European Union and the Estonian state budget during the new budget period, which make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but are resource-intensive. It is important to note that for the reconstruction of apartment buildings, both private-sector own resources and external financing grants have been identified, a total of EUR 915 million for the development of railways, reconstruction, electrification of railways and upgrading of traffic management systems, EUR 402 million for sustainable urban mobility, EUR 137 million for the promotion of the deployment of integrated hydrogen technology, EUR 24 million for the introduction of biomethane and EUR 23.2 million for the introduction of innovative and resource-efficient green technologies. Climate-neutral Estonia. I fully agree that, for the sake of the environment and climate, we must achieve climate neutrality as soon as possible, but we must take into account the location of Estonia, the activities of other Member States and competitiveness. In doing so, however, I consider it important that no one lags behind in the transition to 'HEA', so that the transition takes place step by step and in such a way that the planned investments can actually be realised. These decisions and investments that we will be taking over the next ten years are very important to achieve our objectives. At the same time, in order to achieve climate neutrality, we also need new technologies to help reduce the resource use of companies and make all sectors of the economy more environmentally friendly. We are in the process of developing various measures that support the development and deployment of such technologies. I am therefore very grateful to our scientists and businesses, who have a genuine interest and a desire to participate in the development of the green economic model, because without you we will not achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U106	Thank you. We can now go to the questions. There's a lot of questions. First Natalia Malleus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U107	[[Remote connection]] [[The quality of the connection is very poor, it does not understand the text.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U108	Did the Minister understand the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U109	I understood that there was a question about the European Union and what the impact on our economy of achieving these objectives would be, but I did not hear that year. Certainly, the objectives of the European Union, which we have set ourselves to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and emissions compared to the 1990s, and so that we achieve the milestones by both 2030 and 2050, have an economic impact. Estonia has supported the setting of more ambitious greenhouse gas reduction targets to mitigate climate change. I also referred to it in my report that it is precisely as a whole that we support the starting points that Europe has proposed. This will certainly have an impact on the Estonian economy. To what extent, of course, depends on the concrete proposals that the European Commission will present this summer. We believe that all sectors, both the public and the private sectors, including the private sector, must contribute to this objective, all the areas that I have read here. I would also like to point out that one of the specific objectives of the government is that no one should be left behind in this process. I have emphasised this quite a number of times in my report. It is important that we look here both at the specific characteristics of the Estonian state and at the specific characteristics of the different regions of our country. If we are to take major economic steps, which also have major socio-economic implications, then we must take into account the needs and opinions of the various social groups. Certainly not all the effects that this will have are necessarily negative, but there is also a great deal of positive when we set ourselves significantly more ambitious targets. This will certainly create the ground for innovation, for the transition to a clean economy and for a green turnaround, which will certainly contribute to better living conditions for all the people of Estonia, and, if investments rise in one region or another or in the whole country, it will undoubtedly help both to boost the economy and, in fact, to make the transition to a more sustainable technology in the long term considerably more resource efficient. So it certainly has its own economic impact, but there are both positive and negative aspects here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U110	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U111	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, you mentioned the Paris Agreement on which Estonia is based. Article 2 of the Paris Agreement sets out three objectives which have been taken over as an undertaking. The first and most famous is that global warming must be limited to 1.5 degrees, the second is that steps must be taken to adapt to climate change, and the third is that financial flows must be brought into line with environmentally friendly society. If Estonia tries to work hard with the first two, then with this third, we are in complete contradiction with the decision of the previous government at the moment, creating a new oil shale oil plant for the people's money, which will increase Estonia's emissions by 5%. Mrs Alender couldn't tell if the new government had braked this bad idea or not. Can you tell me if this factory will be suspended or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U112	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think that the previous government coalition made a lot of good and wise decisions. I think that the construction of the oil plant was also a well-considered strategic decision. What were those arguments in the Government of the Republic at the time? I have not been present in the discussions of the Government of the Republic and cannot assess the effects of this investment. It will undoubtedly have major negative effects, but it will certainly also have positive effects in terms of economic efficiency. [I don't know] what the cons and pros were and what were the final arguments why such a decision was made. If we now come to today's government coalition, as I mentioned in my report, indeed, it has been agreed in the government coalition that we will not make public investments in the development of fossil fuels in the next two years. The answer to your question is whether the current government is reconsidering the decision taken by the previous government and somehow pulling the brake on the construction of this oil plant, is no, we have not discussed it, and no, it seems to me that it is not right in economic terms or in environmental terms, because this window of time, if it had been possible to reverse this decision, will still remain in the earlier period. Today, the decisions and choices that have been made must move forward on schedule. As I said, in the case of the oil shale sector, it is important that we contribute more precisely not to the production of electricity but to the production of oil. I think oil shale is not a problem, but a good challenge for Estonia as a whole. We will no doubt also need this for the next 10, 15, 20, maybe more years, because technologies will undoubtedly evolve during this period. Let us see once how we have achieved a huge leap in this area compared to 1990. Here on one of my slides I have shown how we have achieved a very huge leap in the energy sector, precisely in the production of oil shale electricity, and I think this is undoubtedly an important step. Now the second question is how can we make oil production from oil shale even more environmentally friendly? There are no doubt technologies and ways to do this in such a way that its footprint is either non-existent or very small. The question is whether the application of these technologies is economically efficient and whether the production of oil shale oil would be at all competitive compared to world market prices. These are issues that need to be negotiated. I think that this twenty-year period that we have with these ambitions is undoubtedly the period in which technology is also evolving, our knowledge is evolving, and we are getting smarter as a country. So, yes, it is the decision of the previous government, and the new government is not going to reconsider that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U113	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U114	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good minister! The Chairman of the Environment Commission, Good Yoko Alender, has just expressed his opinion on the burning of wood in Auvere. I fully agree with his position, but the problem is wider. Many articles have been published both in Estonia and in foreign media, how basically Estonian logs are burned under the name of biomass in both the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Denmark. This has been accompanied by an increasingly free interpretation of the concept of biomass, which increases the pressure of cutting and contributes increasingly to clear cutting in Estonia. As a minister, do you agree that this issue should be renegotiated with the wider public and environmental interest groups in order to limit the insane clear cutting of Estonian forests? This will affect our ecosystem and sustainability as a green digital state in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U115	Good Imre! I am pleased that you have gone into this matter very much in this House. It is actually very commendable that you bring this matter up from such an angle. I think I'd like to start by saying what's definitely important. You made a very clear reference to Estonian forestry policy, and I think I have already stressed this on several occasions in the Minister's Office, that in the long term the management of forests of the size we are doing today is unsustainable and we must come back several steps here. The second question you raised is very correct. This concerns the definition of biomass and biomass. In this sense, I agree that indeed very many interest groups interpret it very differently. I think that the use of biomass in this form, when we are talking about low-value wood, when we are talking about this wood, which cannot be added value or whose lifetime we cannot extend, is certainly important to its use as biomass in order to meet the sustainability criteria that we would like to move towards. This is definitely an opportunity in the environmental perspective. It is undoubtedly important that we do not talk about Estonia's valuable forest, the valuable timber as a whole going into the production of either our neighbouring countries or Estonia's own electricity or indoor warm. I think it makes sense to find a balance here. If we look at the co-production plants of Estonian municipalities, where biomass is also used, this has been one of our strategic choices five or ten years ago. A clear decision has been made here that we are using very much, namely biomass, wood chips, sawdust, branches and other low-value wood in order to get a warm room in different areas. But yes, we do indeed have industrial sectors that use wood for other purposes, and I think that the initiation of this debate, how we define biomass and in which case we are talking about it, is certainly important. I would like to stress that if the timber we receive from forest management is valuable, then surely this is the value class because of its pricing policy. Many products are still moving forward, well, I bring a simple example to the sawmill, and the value added there is still significantly more economically effective than using this wood as heating. So it is certainly a price policy that, in many ways, puts these decisions in place and gives us a direction on where we should go in this topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U116	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U117	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Minister of the Environment! As you said in your report, achieving climate neutrality by 2050 is an ambitious goal for the European Union, to which we are all moving together. Unfortunately, every time a matter of climate policy arises at government or parliamentary level, in North-East Estonia, I am asked what happens tomorrow to oil shale and the jobs involved in the extraction and processing of its mineral resources. I'm taking this opportunity to refer the matter to you as a representative of the government. What about the oil shale industry and the socio-economic effects associated with its exit in Ida-Virumaa, bearing in mind the environmental ambition discussed today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U118	Thank you. Certainly in order to achieve the objectives we are talking about today, we must make major changes in the oil shale sector. As I said, we have agreed in the Government of the Republic that we should exit oil shale electricity production by 2035. As I said in my previous answers, it is important to highlight two keywords. These are security of supply and energy security. This means that we cannot achieve this goal in any way until we are assured that Estonia is an independent state in terms of energy and that our security of supply is ensured in such a way that it is not dependent on the circumstances of any other country or on the weather of Estonia or on any ambition or wishes of any other country. This must be a very clear and strong priority for the country. So before there is no alternative, it is undoubtedly a problem for oil shale electricity to leave production and this step will not be taken. But as I said, it also has an economic dimension. We can already see today that the production of oil shale electricity is no longer competitive from a European point of view, and it is certainly important to stress here that we must ensure that, if we produce electricity, there is indeed demand for it, and if there is demand for it, it would also be justified demand, just looking at this economic aspect. As I have emphasised in my report and responses, we need to move significantly towards oil production when using oil shale. In the case of oil production, we are talking about a smaller environmental footprint and greater economic efficiency, but we are also talking about this as one way of implementing new technologies and new opportunities. I think that the next few decades will undoubtedly offer a variety of opportunities on this subject to take even better steps to help us meet both our climate goals and to save nature. I think that it is no secret for any person in Ida-Viru County that a fair transition fund has been agreed in the European Union. For Estonia, this amount should be around 340 million euros and it will only support the region of Ida-Virumaa. This means that we will invest in creating new jobs, developing new technologies, including research, but we will also create opportunities for developing social and health infrastructure. I think the region of Ida-Virumaa is looking forward to it. Every cent that goes into the development of Ida-Viru County will help these people to cope better and understand what these climate goals are and where we are going. What I said in my report, and what I want to stress, is that it is not just a word or a sentence, but it is an important starting point from which we must start. If we are to make strategic decisions in the oil shale sector that have a major economic, including socio-economic, then we must not leave any people between the gears in any way, but these decisions must be negotiated with stakeholders in a balanced way. All people need to feel confident that when we make decisions that are so important for the Estonian state and for meeting the environmental and climate objectives, it will certainly affect them, but this impact is rather positive in their view and they also feel socio-economically secure. So undoubtedly new jobs, technological development, but also various support packages in the direction of Ida-Virumaa, are important keywords. I think, once again, that is what I said in replying to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, that oil shale is not a problem in achieving climate goals, but a challenge, and this challenge we will have to deal with for the next few decades and hope that our scientists will contribute to it and develop many different technologies so that this development can take place even faster and better. There is no doubt that the public sector, the private sector and our researchers have an important role to play here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U119	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a lot of questions, too. Let's get to the questions. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U120	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. If the government has the aim of reducing the volume of felling, then [this] is certainly, in my opinion, the very right aim, but it certainly concerns many businesses and jobs across Estonia. I have a question, why hasn't the government come up with a proposal for a social agreement? For example, that we reduce cutting volumes by 3 million cubic metres, but Estonia will receive the highest ever amounts from Europe during this period, the implementation plan is being carried out, we will, for example, put EUR 50 to 60 million in support of the forest industry in order to increase added value, we will retain jobs, we will maintain GDP and, in fact, we will also preserve biodiversity. Why has there not been such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U121	Thank you. I think that, as far as forestry policy is concerned, I have a good recommendation for you and for your group: I think that the next topic of the debate on a matter of national importance in this large Chamber could be forest policy as a whole. I think that it is certainly not enough to answer this question for a minute and a half, so I am happy to come and make a longer presentation on this subject. You understand correctly, yes, indeed, I have said that in the long term, the continuation of logging or forest management in Estonia on such a scale is certainly not sustainable and we must take a few steps back. I think that this social agreement can only arise if we are able to establish in the forestry development plan the foundations of our forest management, forest conservation and forest conservation policy for the next ten years. These negotiations and processes are taking place in very different ways. I sincerely hope that we can hand this document over to Parliament in the second half of 2022 and then Parliament will be able to give its assessment. There is no doubt that input from you and your group is very important. Your particular question was about forestry, but any such decisions also concern the climate. It is certainly difficult to make decisions on these issues in the sense that they have an economic impact, but they also have an important climate impact, so there is no doubt that a balance must be struck between these decisions. You referred to funds coming to the Estonian state in the next period of the European Union, from 2021 to 2027. Yeah, you're right, it's a lot of money, it's record money. I think that both the Fair Transition Fund and the structural instruments will undoubtedly play an important role in the development of science and entrepreneurship, and it is in no way delineated so that forestry is left out of it. So if forestry and forestry stakeholders, this strategic sector, have the opportunity and will to seek funds from these funds, so that our forest management is even more sustainable, better and more efficient, I certainly support this idea, because the forest is important and forestry policy is important. On an economic point, if I'm not mistaken, one Ernst & Young study says it's every 11. Estonia's job is specifically related to forestry and the forestry sector, including the creation of added value, so these are undoubtedly important challenges. I would really welcome this proposal if we could discuss this whole forestry policy on such a large scale right here in this large hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U122	Thank you, good waitress. Minister, this is the end of the round of questions. Thank you and still the strength for you! I think we need to do one thing. In particular, Mr Alender has proposed to us together with the Committee on the Environment, and it seems to me that we should now discuss this proposal. The content of the proposal is that if the debate on a seriously important national issue has not ended by 1 p.m., the Committee on the Environment will ask for the session to be extended until the item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. I think we should go to the vote on this proposal. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the Committee on the Environment's proposal to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. Dear colleagues, I am interrupting the vote. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that we have a little technical question, so let's take a five-minute break and then move on. Break five minutes. Good fellows, recess is over. We are on the verge of a vote. I am voting on the Committee on the Environment's proposal to extend the agenda until it is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U123	With the result of 25 votes against 2 and 1 abstention, the proposal was supported. Let us now proceed with this item. We are also trying to restore as far as possible the order of speakers. I now ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, senior researcher in the climate change economy at the University of Cambridge, and Annela Anger-Kraavi, vice-chairman of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change Science and Technology Council. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! My presentation is more from the point of view of science and the United Nations. And if I am allowed to improve, I will no longer be the vice-chairman of the Scientific and Technology Committee, but the co-chairman of the Committee on the Economic Effects of Climate Policy, so I am still active in the UN. But first, before I begin, I would actually like to apologize to the honourable members of the Riigikogu that the charts on my slide are in English. However, you have also been offered their translation, so I hope that this is not a problem. But as an external Estonian, I forgot that I should have translated the charts into Estonian. The second apology goes to my mother, who I promised never to walk into this house because our family didn't end well in the first republic. So the mother, who is already on the canal, has also been given an excuse. I don't know what to say, to be perfectly honest, because so much has been said today. It has been said that we need criminal neutrality, why we need it, that it should be needed by 2035, even though the country's plans are 2050. What to do, that's what we've been talking about. What are the odds, we've been told. But I'm gonna take a step back. Let us think once about the UN Charter, to which Estonia has joined, and which 75 years ago promised us that we would leave a better life for our future generations, a richer life, a better planet where they would never have to see war, than to sum it up in my own words. António Guterres, Secretary General of the United Nations, but in his speech at the beginning of this year, he said that mankind had declared war on nature. So, what's up? One of the wars we have declared is the so-called climate war. We have caused this at the beginning without knowing ourselves, now for years now conscious of this change in climate by burning fossil fuels that are underground and adding greenhouse gases to the air. One of the main gases we have added is CO2, carbon dioxide, or also carbon dioxide in Estonian. We have now caused climate warming on average a little over 1 degree. In Estonia, warming is already around 2 degrees, but when we think about the Arctic, it is already close to 3 degrees. A disbalanced climate system means no good to anyone. It's not just warming. Warming is only one of the internal characteristics of this system. The system is unfortunately messed up, and now we need to see what we can do. The UN has adopted a Framework Convention on Climate Change, the so-called Paris Agreement. Estonia has joined it, and there we promise that we will reduce man-made warming below 2 degrees and strive for 1.5 degrees. One of the ways in which we achieve this, one of the actions we should do in this regard, is to strike a balance between anthropogenic sources of greenhouse gas emissions and removals. This is Article 4.1 of the Paris Agreement. This article does not define whether these bindings are natural or whether they are human-made technologies that we are talking not only about CO2 but also about other gases, such as nitrogen dioxide, taking away methane from the air. It doesn't define that. But it has been said that this balance should arrive in the second half of this century, in order to achieve the basic objective set out in Article 2. Now let's think about where we are right now. Here's a slide. I don't know if there's a mouse dart on the screen. Yes, it is. Each country in the Paris Agreement promises what it wants to do, promises to reduce emissions and take action against climate change. It is not just a reduction that we are talking about; it is also about adaptation, about what countries are doing to adapt to the changes that have already arisen. If we stopped blowing up all our greenhouse gases now, warming would still be 1.5 degrees by the end of the century. So we also need to adapt, we need to think about adaptation. And we need to think about how we help nature adapt. Here today we are talking about the forest, how the forest can link carbon dioxide, help to combat climate change and achieve climate neutrality. But if the forest itself can't resist climate change, then there's no carbon sink in the forest. So adaptation also plays a very important role when we talk about climate neutrality. Now for the contributions of the states. Here on my slide, they're up here, gray. It is a slightly outdated graph from an article by my colleagues, but it helps to explain the point of climate neutrality. They're here, it's this INDC, they're the initial contributions under the Paris Agreement. Now this line and this gray area is where we're going. And this line is actually a little lower with its current promises. And where we're supposed to be, there's somewhere inside this orange or pink area. So even though the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change has been in force for 25 years and awaits its 26th meeting, which has been postponed due to COVID, greenhouse gas emissions have not decreased. Now, climate neutrality. Climate neutrality, as such, is a theoretical concept. There is a time point where this is achieved. Mr Vasser mentioned what is needed to achieve this. There are emissions that we cannot reduce. International aviation and shipping are often mentioned, and there are other areas of life. For example, there are emissions in agriculture that are difficult to reduce. These quantities should somehow be removed from the air, either by means of some natural means of forest, grassland and swamps or by means of technologies. And at some point in the second half of this century, it should be achieved by one moment that the quantities that we are still issuing, and those that we are taking out, achieve a balance. Now you have to think about what's gonna happen after that. So a much longer-term vision is needed than climate neutrality by 2035 or 2050. Ideally, after that, the so-called carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases should be greater than what we are issuing. And this is this striped area right here. Without it, we will not be able to limit global man-made warming to 1.5 degrees compared to pre-industrial times. The IPCC, this Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has already been mentioned here. This is their so-called 1.5 degree report, a special report that was adopted in 2018 and which also shows where we are now. The graph starts in 2010. Emissions are currently increasing, but by 2030 emissions in the world should have halved and remain at zero in 2050. And after that, the emissions should be negative, which means that more CO2 is bound from the air than it is issued there. But it is important to remember that the climate is not only affected by CO gases, there are other greenhouse gases, as well as soot. And they must also decrease in order to achieve climate neutrality. When we are talking about climate neutrality, we are actually talking about reducing the quantities of all the gases that affect the climate and also the black carbon, as it is called in science, or soot. So the partial capture of CO2 from the air also compensates for the fact that these other greenhouse gases, other agents, cannot be reduced to zero. IPPC proposes four scenarios that could be done and how could it be done to achieve climate neutrality, to achieve that we take carbon dioxide out of the air. Following this report, and when the UN Convention on Climate Change called on countries to present long-term climate change strategies in 2020, many countries have already promised that they will act accordingly. Science shows that this is possible, and they want to achieve climate neutrality at one point or another. Norway is particularly ambitious, has promised climate neutrality by 2030, China by 2060 and many other countries by 2050. And there are some countries in the world that are already climate-neutral or, in fact, on the negative side, are binding more than issuing. These are Bhutan and Suriname, for example. These are relatively poor countries whose man-made emissions are small and have a lot of forest. Now for the IPPC scenarios. It is important that two indications are seen in the achievement of negative emissions. One is the brown and labelled AFOLU, which is then agriculture, forestry and other land use, and the other is important, which is highlighted in the model scenarios, is the so-called BECCS. BECCS is then bioenergy with carbon capture and storage. Most of this storage takes place underground. This technology is currently not widely used in the world, as Mr Vasser mentioned. The last graph shows that about 20 gigatons per year should be tied, but the actual binding is still within a few hundred million tonnes. The only bioenergy, electricity-producing plant that currently works and stores carbon is in England and has a daily volume of 1 tonne of CO2. The remaining tying or tying and storage will still take place in companies producing CO2 in their production processes and close to oil deposits, so that there is a place to store it. But quickly from these four scenarios. The first scenario, which would actually be the most ideal, is if we all reduced our activities, our life-related emissions. There's two sides. One is our conscious choices to put the lights out more, and the other is that there are technologies that help us in this. And this means that, under this scenario, let us also consider the research that is behind it, people who move voluntarily to live on very small dwellings, voluntarily give up eating meat, etc. At the same time, the description of this scenario shows that people who are now living in very poor developing countries will have to live up, not others. But that would be the way to move right now towards climate neutrality. Now land use. You see, here, this BECCS is not bioenergy with carbon sequestration, it's just land use. In principle, land use change is to be achieved by reducing deforestation. There has been no large-scale deforestation in Estonia, there is virtually no deforestation at all. Deforestation means land use change, i.e. forest land becomes arable land or settlements. There is some small deforestation, but not enough that we could say that there are emissions related to deforestation in Estonia. Today, deforestation in the world is mainly taking place in the Amazon region. And this is where you see this brown area with these emissions. It should decrease to zero and the forest should begin to bind. Now there are two such technology development scenarios. Technologies are evolving and people are changing their behaviour. This is the kind of golden middleway where we live more or less on, as we live now, the technologies are developing, and at some point we have technologies that take carbon out of the air. For example, if in the first and second scenarios BECCS, or bioenergy combined with carbon capture and storage, is not acceptable at all in the first and in the second, it is not acceptable by humans, then in the latter two it is. And the last scenario is that we're going to develop in a totally carbon intensive, energy-intensive way. In that case, we hope that we will have some technologies in the middle of the century that can really compensate for our present way of life. All right, now from Estonia, from Estonian issues. The Minister of the Environment has shown us what we have done. In the last year, since 2019, emissions in energy have decreased considerably. This decrease was even greater in 2020 and has basically come because of the carbon price, which is currently around EUR 40 per tonne of carbon dioxide. When we say that we do not have taxes to help combat climate change, we basically have one very high tax that has reduced our emissions in energy very quickly. This is, of course, a very positive development. What else can we do? Should Estonia achieve climate neutrality by 2035? Basically, yes. I think, as I said before, that we should see much further, that we should see what comes after this year. If we think a little bit about the amount of carbon dioxide emissions per capita in Estonia, then we are at a level quite similar to the United States, perhaps a little below the last two years. If we think about how much an Estonian person earns on average or how much GDP per capita, and compare it with the United States, we are far from there. Our current way of life would actually allow these issues to be reduced to some extent. However, there is also one 'but': since we are not very rich, we must be very careful in doing what we do. And the fact that neutrality should necessarily be by 2035 should not be an end in itself. There should be a wish that we move very quickly towards it, which is because we are a country whose emissions account for only 0.05% of world emissions. But now, as we have heard, there are no ideal technical solutions for this. This means that we should use all the solutions we have and think carefully about what we already have, what we can do. We do not have hydropower in such quantity as Costa Rica, where the whole country's energy is based on renewable energy. We do not want nuclear power and we do not want bioenergy. If we do not want anything, it will be very difficult to achieve climate neutrality, everything is as if bad. One measure is to change your behaviour and to do so as quickly as possible. Secondly, we need to think about what we already have. The burning of wood waste has also been mentioned here today, and there are many questions about it. But that's what we have right now. This does not mean that we do not have to manage our forest sustainably. Of course we do, biodiversity is important. The loss of biodiversity is one of the major environmental problems in the world, and the main cause of biodiversity loss is climate change. I'll finish here. I've covered more or less all the subjects I wanted to cover. I don't think I need more of this for three minutes, even if I'm allowed. I'd be happy to answer the questions. And if there was anything unclear about the slides, here's my email address, please, write and ask for more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U125	Thank you very, very much, Annela Anger-Craavi! And, really, we now have, I understand, that this is a proposal that you agree with, that there should also be questions within 40 minutes and your answers. If that's okay, we could take off. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for a very good presentation. A few years ago, the President of the German Electricity Industry Association said that one third of small and medium-sized enterprises in our sector would not have been born if it had not been for the objective of climate neutrality and the growing demand for renewable energy. Germany is considered a good example of how to link the promotion of new technologies to professional and engineering training in Europe. As an expert and professional in the field, what would you recommend to the current young generation, who will graduate from school in a few years' time, to choose a specialty so that the Estonian state will succeed in pursuing climate neutrality and achieving these goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U127	Good waitress, I'm gonna step in for a minute and tell you that there's no time limit for you to answer, in that sense, that there's a total of 40 minutes. If you answer, you tell me when you're done. Then let's take the next question. Please, you have the floor now!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U128	Thank you, Mrs. Tiidus, very good question. What Should I Learn? This brings me back to the fact that if you look at Estonian education at all and what is being said about climate and climate change, it does not seem to me very much. I don't live in Estonia, but I've been talking to schoolchildren here, and it doesn't seem like there's much of that education. Once I talked about this, it is now a few years ago with those Friday climate fighters who are young people whose future is in danger and who rightly say that my future is in danger, because science does not have any other data at present, that the future is not in danger. When I first spoke to them, their understanding was that the problem was garbage by the sea, plastic... It is difficult to understand, it is some sort of creepy problem, the nature of which is very difficult to grasp and it is particularly felt in Estonia. Summers are warmer, it's actually nice to be on the beach. This whole educational system really wants a change. Until we look at our universities, our universities don't really teach climate policy, or there's a single lecture somewhere. What can I do? In fact, considering the education system, it would be necessary for this problem, the subject of climate change, to be properly taught, to be taught on a science-based basis. When you think of the specialties that come to mind as an islander, for example, old wooden houses, Grandma's home. Construction of wooden houses, for example, when considering vocational education. Because the wood that's there, if it's well-grown wood from the forest, it'll last for hundreds of years. But when I talk to my father, it seems that these skills to make good and durable wooden houses are disappearing. And they're not very popular either. Learn what? Certainly Estonia will not become a competitor for China in making wind turbines. Perhaps you can first learn to understand and understand this problem. And then learn, maybe this niche could be somewhere to develop smart solutions that could be so-called fast replicated and offered to other countries. Estonia is a well-known state of IT technologies and many interesting ideas and start-ups have come from here. Maybe that's one thing to learn. And certainly also the development of alternative forms of energy, which also means going backwards from soft sciences to some extent to science and study engineering. I hope I answered. That is not an easy question to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U129	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have one such question in a larger context, because everything that is happening in the world also concerns Estonia. As we know, we have achieved our own prosperity here in Europe and in America at the cost of global warming. But we have achieved prosperity. In other parts of the world, however, there are a great many countries, such as India in Africa and Asia, where well-being is just beginning to reach. And well-being means everyone wants a car, a refrigerator, a TV, everything they don't have yet. The entire economic system is built on consumption, and it is beginning to have a very strong impact on these global climate goals. What's the UN view? Where are these countries in their development, and what problems or opportunities do they have, and what does that mean for us? Maybe there's some way you can dissect it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U131	Again, a very good question, but it is not easy to answer. Why have we met at the UN for 25 years? It has been one of the fundamental questions that it is very difficult to say to a country that is still developing that it does not have to develop. And it's very hard to tell people who live in poverty that that's where you're supposed to stay. Of course, there is a need for development and, of course, for all people in the world to achieve at least a minimum standard of living that is currently lacking. 150 million people still live below the poverty line, starving. So it's really hard. This first scenario, which I have shown, of the IPCC, is actually that people in developing countries are going to live a little better and that those in developed countries are going to have to tighten their belts. This is not really acceptable to the latter. And that is the fact that one of the main features of the UN negotiations is that no one disputes that we have a problem. Science and scientists show that every year, new evidence comes that this problem is actually worse than we thought so far. It's like there's no one to blame but yourself. And when we did all this, we didn't know what we were doing. And now there's a place to make a deal, who's gonna fund it all. Developing countries are willing to move immediately to a carbon-neutral economy, but they need money. They also need to develop, they have other things to do. And the debates are actually about funding: how to finance it and who should do it. Developed countries have increased their funding and are increasing further. Within the framework of the Paris Agreement, this is also an issue of negotiation on how to finance. And long-term financing negotiations are also beginning. Yeah, it's complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U132	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U133	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Am I there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U134	You're gonna be great.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U135	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I understand these wise proposals that we must also make changes in the Defence Forces, in defence. We need to lose fuel technology, introduce bows and swords, because firearms also damage the atmosphere, and use only infantry, because horse cavalry also ruins the atmosphere and air.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U136	Yes, very good and, if I may say so, a humorous question, Mr. Kaskpeit! We know this would be the perfect solution, but the fact that we're going back that way is definitely not going to happen. And the Defence Forces must also be wondering how to reduce their footprints. Many of the technologies that we are already using to reduce emissions are also of military origin and tested there. The Defence Forces have a place in research, technology development. Although the technologies they develop may have different functions. If we went back to the Stone Age, it would help to get rid of the problem, but we still need to find ways and work on new technologies, doing what can be done now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U137	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good waitress, for their thoughts! Achieving climate-neutrality will probably also lead to very significant changes in our social order. It's inevitable. And it is clear that in all these major changes, there are winners and losers, both among entrepreneurs and among employees. The general principle seems, if I have understood everything correctly, that although the wealthier part of society is more responsible for creating a climate crisis, because their ecological footprint is greater, the main victims are still the poorer part of society. How important do you think this aspect of social justice is in this global fight against climate change?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U139	Thank you, Mr Odines, very good question again. What you're saying is absolutely true. This change that we want to happen is a systemic change. Everything needs to change, both the social system and the perceptions. And it is also right that no one in this transition should be caught between the wheels in this great and very rapid change that we have never been through as a human society. That no one should suffer is right. We are thinking about a fair transition, which has also been discussed a lot in Estonia, especially in Ida-Virumaa. I don't think it's just an Ida-Viru County problem. It's a problem for the whole country. Because if it goes badly in Ida-Virumaa, people living in other counties will certainly do badly. I am currently running a research project in Estonia that focuses precisely on Ida-Virumaa and what might happen if we give up the use of oil shale and oil shale energy production. The oil industry remains, I have nothing until this oil is burned either in Estonia or elsewhere. And that's what our scientists should be working on. But just so no one gets between the wheels, we need to investigate. We need to know what's ahead. And such studies have not been carried out in Estonia, as far as I know. This is not an easy job, because it requires talking to people and understanding how they want to see their future, understanding who is suffering, understanding the differences between generations, between the older generation and the younger generation, between Estonians and foreigners, between women and men, what this means for all of them. And together, we need to find a solution. It's a big venture, a big task. There are examples of the European Union. We have an international climate task force for a fair transition. Ireland, for example, partly uses the money of its trading system for European issuance to compensate for the impact of the changes on those people who suffer from the implementation of these policies. For example, there is so-called energy poverty: people cannot heat up their houses enough and then receive money from this system. This system, on the one hand, reduces emissions and, on the other hand, helps those directly affected to cope. There's a lot of ways to think about when you start planning. But we have to start planning. It's not like we're gonna do it, and then we're gonna watch after that, oh, how we're gonna get rid of these consequences now. These consequences will perhaps be much greater and may not be eradicated at all. First, we need to assess the effects and then look at what measures can be taken to reduce the negative effects and increase the positive effects, for example, of the positive effects on human health. I could talk about it for another hour, but there are probably other questioners. But I'm willing to talk about it further and also give you information about the project we're working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U140	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U141	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! What would you say to scientists and schools who do not agree that climate warming is man-made? You just said that science doesn't have any other data. You don't want to cancel the critical debate and our academic Anto Raukas, as the modern Western fashion says? Or do you think climate science is ready and the current mainstream is not subject to appeal? Today, it seems to me that the lack of doubt makes modern climate science a sect of Jehovah's people, who have the exact deadline for the end of the world. I will give just one example of the argument of the disputed science. The conclusions of isotopic analysis of Antarctic cores have been seriously questioned. It is claimed that they show that the concentration of carbon dioxide and methane in the atmosphere has never been as high as it is now in the last 700000 years. But there are serious doubts about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U142	Thank you, again, a very good question. In my opinion, climate skeptics and scientists who have doubts certainly have a role to play. Their role is to further develop science and also to evaluate it. What's important is that if we were to make some kind of discovery, some conclusion, there would be critics who would either help to prove or disprove it. In Estonia, I recommend reading reports from the International Panel on Climate Change. Why are they important? They're not written by one scientist. This panel consists of a government, the Estonian government is also a member of the panel and is attending these meetings, so it has its own say, its own opportunity to express its doubts. Read it! These are the reports that, in essence, are actually evaluation reports. They summarise and appreciate the work of many scientists. And the summaries will also be evaluated with governments. I myself have helped our Environment Agency write answers and think about what Estonia needs to know more. For example, the same 1.5 degree report that I was talking about and from which I showed the pictures sums up the work of more than 7 000 scientists and appreciates them. He has his own assessment criteria. If there is only one article that states one argument, it will receive a very low grade in this report. However, if there are many independent research projects that say the same thing, they have a greater weight. They are also clearly set out in that report. That would be a suggestion. Unfortunately, these reports are not available in Estonian, but I believe that the Estonian scientific community reads quite freely in English. So I suggest you read them. But doubts are always welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U143	Thank you. Let's move on. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U144	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, You started your presentation with the words, "I don't know what to say now," but thank you very much! For me, it's still like a new understanding or a new knowledge of all of this. Although we're at the top of the world with our carbon emissions, I knew. In fact, the same description of you showed very well how well Estonia is in a position to achieve climate neutrality. Whether we are talking about our vast forest area, about the opportunity for people to grow their own food or about scattered settlements. Our assumptions are actually very good, but we still have something to do. Why we do nothing often comes back to the argument that Estonia is so small in such regular conversations. Our global footprint is fading small, let the others solve it! We're doing more or less the minimum that's required not to look bad. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U145	Thank you for that question. I guess it's human that it's not my problem, it's the other people's problem when something needs to be done. It's like this nuclear talk: very good, but not in my backyard. And also windmills: very good, but not near my village! I guess it's part of the education issue to realize that something has to be done. The second problem is that it is actually very difficult to give up the lifestyle we have. Just because Estonia is small and produces 0.05% of the world's emissions does not mean that we do not have to do anything. And the fact that we're in a very good place to do something is also right. But I think what's happened is that we're waiting for some technology to solve this, but these technologies have been there for 50 years. And they're not here. The realization that I can do something myself would be best, but it's really hard to come. We live in a place where there's a lot of forest. If we look at another European country, we leave out the Nordic countries, then we are actually very happy compared to them. And how beautiful it is! I know there's a dispute, clear cutting is ugly, yeah. But that's what it's been like growing up at my age, my life. I've seen it all the time. And how many woods and beautiful places we still have! I don't think the Estonians will see that much anymore in this whole debate. And our forest could play a major role, as could timber products. The production of long-lived wood products could replace cement and iron. And we have a lot of potential to develop these skills. We could actually show and teach other European countries that the forest can be managed in this way. It is even better if we switch to even better sustainable measures, so that there are not just forest fields. In many countries, when the forest is planted and everyone starts to do it or tries to do it for the sake of chemical neutrality, there is a risk that there will be an agricultural picture, but there should be a forest. The forestry industry can be tourism at the same time. You can walk in the woods, you can pick mushrooms. All forest functions should be fulfilled, then biodiversity will be preserved. Of course, somewhere you have to give in, everyone has to give in, but basically Estonia has it. This is a very, very beautiful thing that we should necessarily keep. And maybe we should just sit back and say that the argument I see in the media is really... Well, let's say it's not very pretty. And the fact that he got to England was even uglier.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U146	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U147	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good waitress, I don't have a good question. I have a very bad one. If you look at the numbers, there's really no hope for humanity. When these numbers began to reach me, there was no fear of talking about such a thing as global birth control. Tell me, do you think it is possible to talk about such matters as well, and please tell me if there is any climate enthusiast debate on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U148	Thank you, Mr. Ligi! That's a very good question again! Population growth control, yes, there are 7.7 billion of us here, and we are fast approaching eight. And it's about to be 10. If people did not consume energy, yes, we would have less climate problems. Is that what they're talking about? Let's say it's not the most popular subject. Among scientists, yes, not politically. However, in recent years the United Nations has also discussed how to translate this word into Estonian, the gender aspect in the discussions on climate change and climate change reduction. There has been talk about this, and there has been talk about education, for example. It would be necessary for girls in developing countries to be able to go to school, have an education, have the right to decide their own lives and how many children they have. There is a debate on this. Now, directly from population growth limitation... I have friends who have knowingly decided not to have children because of this problem. This is a very, very difficult subject, a very difficult subject to discuss widely. But this is a subject that anyone can think about for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U149	Thank you. Now, Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am asking about the scientific reviews that are periodically updated by the international climate panel and the assessments and forecasts that result from them. In the last three decades, when this panel has been in place, it seems to me that the more knowledge of science has come from this complex matter, the more acute the assessments have actually become, and it has been preceded by warnings that we urgently need to reorganize our social life in principle. Next year, the IPCC is planning to provide important innovations. Is my feeling right that we would rather move in the direction that the scientific assessment, this whole thing, is even more serious than we have thought so far? Or is the impression wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U151	Thank you, Mr Ossinovski. I also tried to say in my report that every year, and every time these reports come out, every new report shows a picture that is, let's say, less pleasant. Knowledge improves, skills improve, measurements become more accurate. I'm afraid that's the way it is. Reports on the sixth evaluation cycle are currently underway. The main report, the big report, consists of three parts: mitigation, adaptation and the scientific foundations of climate change. Yeah, I think man-made warming is, as far as we know, within an average of one degree, but it already turns out that it's actually a little bit bigger. So you're right, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U152	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U153	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We have been talking here today about both cutting volumes and clear cuttings. To my sadness, I have to say that there are at least a large number of apparent clear cuttings lately. And here's the question. Under your leadership, a study "Forests and Climate Change" was prepared, which basically rejected the often-sounding claim that more felling is needed to mitigate climate change. Your calculations showed that in a hypothetical situation where the felling would stop, the forests would grow carbon reserves at least up to the end of the century. Could you explain the logic of why we cannot overcome the global climate crisis by more intensive felling of forests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U154	Thank you. The questioner also had a very good question that referred to one of my work. If we stop cutting all kinds of forest, carbon sequestration will indeed increase. But then we don't have a forest industry anymore. The other thing is that this scenario of carbon sequestration did not take into account the impact of climate change on the forest. And this effect is increasing: there are more pests, there are more diseases. Now that we've gotten warmer in the spring at 3 to 5 degrees, it's clearly visible: there's bigger damage and other diseases moving this way, the causes of which the cold winters we had before will no longer kill. One thing is that it is not taken into account. The second question, if you look at this scenario, is how much storage increases. If you look a little backwards in this job, it says how much is bound every year. And in order to achieve climate neutrality, it is necessary for the annual removal of CO2 from the air to be available and increased. For some time, let's say, there by the middle of the century and, or shortly thereafter, this tying of our forest ends. This story, which I have heard from time to time, that the forest grows forever, is not really right. I mean, everything that lives dies. And forest growth is highly related to soil nutrient richness and other conditions. For example, the dry summers are not very good for the forest. Excessive humidity is not good either. Here I always get back to thinking about how we help nature adapt to the changes that lie ahead. We should still look at the long-term perspective and make sure that it does not happen that soon we are dealing with an issue from the forest. This statement, before the forest starts to issue by 2030, is not quite correct. It is proposed that the land-use sector will reach zero, which is also the European Union's goal and that it should be zero in terms of sequestration. And there's not only the forest sector, there's also the issuers. If you look at our peat industry, there are peat fields, there are urban land use, agriculture. Let's say that this smart management of the forest is what helps keep this binding from year to year. But if you do, you have to really think that biodiversity will not disappear and that the other functions of the forest will be preserved. Forest management must be sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U155	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U156	Thank you. There is no doubt that, in principle, renewable energy is also needed to reduce climate change, and wind generators are also used for this. I want to ask you about wind generator syndrome, which has not been dealt with much. It's an infrasound generated by the operation of this generator. I also know that in Estonia this issue is probably not particularly addressed and has taken the view that there is no danger. But the discussion on this subject has not been developed, and I have a small problem, which is why it is not being done. At what stage are these studies, and can we hope for any clarity in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U157	Thank you for your question. I've heard it once, but I have to say I'm not familiar with this debate or the pros and cons. If this thing exists, it must definitely be investigated, it must be dealt with. The impact assessment is important. For everything we do, we need to know how it affects both nature and man. But one fact is, we can't have everything. Somewhere we have to give in to something, in every area, someone has to give in to something so that the worst doesn't happen. But there's gotta be a balance in these things. The same is said about the use of hydrogen. There is no infrastructure. But I do know that there is now a world of research on the harmful effects of hydrogen. If these stories are true, then we do not have a hydrogen economy, which would actually be a pity, because it has potential. The hydrogen energy saver has great potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U158	Indrek Saar.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U159	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, thank you once again for your presentation. I'm trying to fit two into one question. The first question concerns CO2 storage. Could you describe the potential risks to storage because we do not know when and in what form it will be released? And if he's stored a lot, what's the danger? The other side concerns forest management. For decades, these fields have been built on the belief that this is the most effective way of producing industrial timber. This is the fastest and cheapest way to produce it, and it is also a relatively stable quality. Do you have any examples that today it has actually been possible to find these economic arguments that there is no real need to build these fields of wood?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U160	Thanks for the questions, dear schoolboy. If the IPCC reports are taken, they warn against building wood fields. It's a single species of fast-growing forest. We call it the woods, but it's actually a tree field. There is a high risk that, although it quickly binds carbon, it can also be bred so that the material that comes from it is more or less decent, but at the same time it is very sensitive to the effects of any kind of climate change. It can crack in storms and be susceptible to diseases. If there is a single species of tree field, the disease can kill it quickly. And we're not talking about biodiversity and all that chaos. Now, to some extent could help, is like one thought, unused farmland. If there was some kind of fast-growing energy... [[The bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U161	I broke that bell, I fixed it. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U162	It's okay. But now I forgot my idea. Oh, farmland, unused farmland. If there were to grow a rapidly growing tree species and use it to produce energy, it would have its own function. I don't know what kind of law it would take for that to be possible. I don't know what kind of support it takes, but I guess it takes some kind of support to get these things going. After all, it must have a relatively large economic volume to pay off. But at the same time, it would help us to have bioenergy that we can use in power plants or heat plants without having to touch the forest more than we want. At the same time, it must be taken into account that we have been planting in the forest for decades. Where has the Estonian forest come from? If almost half of the forest has reached its maturity in recent decades and begins to die quietly, what do we see? This is the work that has never been done at the end of the Soviet era and at the beginning of this republic, and it is a little unfortunate. It also means that carbon sequestration will start to decrease at some point if we do nothing. I forgot the second question. What was the second question? Storage of CO2? Unfortunately, I do not remember the author's name about whether it is possible or not in Estonia. The closest place is in Latvia, where you could store it. What are the dangers? Some threats are known. It is known that if carbon dioxide is put underground there, usually using former oil fields and gas fields, it cannot be forced to stay there. Any kind of landslide or something, and he's out of there. They're working on these technologies, but the guarantee that he won't escape from there doesn't really exist. At present, its storage itself takes relatively much energy. It has to be cleaned, it has to be squeezed, and so on. Let's say that impact studies are still ongoing and there may be risks that are particularly high. I say "may" because I don't know. The new IPCC report contains more information on this. But this risk assessment is ongoing. So maybe at some point we'll decide that's not the solution. The solution is to change our way of life and look for new renewable technologies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U163	Thank you very much, Annela Anger-Kraavi, for this presentation and the answers. Thank you very much. No further questions. Now I will open negotiations and ask for an honourable Riigikogu speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski. Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good waitresses! I thank everyone for the active and meaningful debate that we have finally been able to have on this important subject today. Man-made climate change is a scientific fact. As a result of human activity, the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere that are warming the climate has increased beyond what has ever been before in the last 800,000 years, and this concentration continues to increase. In addition, the climate crisis is a crisis, and it should be called a crisis, or perhaps it has become familiar with the vocabulary of the last year using the 'environmental emergency' issue. This is not really a political issue among others. The diversity of all nature, as well as human society, has been able to develop and survive through thousands of years thanks to an exceptionally stable climate. This balance is now out of place as a result of our actions, endangering both nature around us and the well-being of all of us. And that is why it is actually impossible to build false objections between environmental conservation and economic development. We must fundamentally change the way we act as societies in order to save the economic, cultural and social values of human society. As we continue on this course, everyone is in danger. Therefore, we should not strike a balance between today's economic model and the steps needed to alleviate the climate crisis, but should actually adapt our society and economy quickly to the needs of tackling the climate crisis. And, of course, it's possible. Yes, many industries, especially the fossil fuel business, need to be packed up pretty quickly. It's an inevitable necessity. But new solutions in energy, transport, food production and all other areas actually open up new economic opportunities, new employment opportunities. In my opinion, Estonia should be the country in the first and not in the last wagon of this transition process. Instead of looking for ways to continue the agony that will destroy the oil shale industry's environment for a few more years, we could immediately contribute to alternatives that are economically positive and, at the same time, prevent environmental damage. After all, in global climate policy, this is a global phenomenon, and a very complex phenomenon, it is, of course, extremely important to think ahead, to anticipate. Al Gore has once, in the 1990s, when only a few people in Estonia knew about climate warming, rightly said that by the time the effects of climate change can be measured, these changes may no longer be reversible. This is the real frame we're operating in. We must trust the best science we have in this area and, on this basis, change our behaviour right now. We don't have time to wait 30 years. Unfortunately, the last year's epidemic has shown us more pessimism in this regard globally. Both here in Estonia and in many other countries we have seen that governments cannot even for two weeks foresee that taking or not taking decisions will have disastrous consequences for society. We are in a situation where this forecast is two weeks ahead. But now we need to see 30 years, 100 years. This is an undoubtedly extremely important, huge and difficult challenge, which we must all make an effort by politicians, scientists, general social figures and, of course, every citizen. I may want to be a little polychemical, but I do believe that it is appropriate to draw attention to one aspect. Undoubtedly, what each of us does is extremely important, whether we come to work on a bicycle or in a car, take a bus, or walk the way we handle our garbage, what clothes, and how often we buy ourselves. But in fact, personal responsibility in this matter is secondary. The largest decisions that need to be taken to resolve the climate crisis need to be taken by countries and national associations. The individual cannot decide from which electricity is produced for its use. It's just not possible. The individual cannot decide whether or not the bus is going to his village, whether or not he has an alternative to the car. As individuals, we cannot largely decide in what way and where, and with what environmental footprint, our food is produced and whether or not the Amazon rainforest has been taken down for this purpose. These large blocks in the fight against climate change actually require countries to provide a framework within which citizens can make these right consumption decisions. This also directly affects the issue of social justice. We know the unequal nature of the climate crisis. It is largely the richest nations and the wealthiest part of the population is responsible for it within the richest nations. But the greatest part of its influence falls to those nations that are at the lowest level of development, and also within societies, in fact, to those whose coping is the worst. Consequently, when deciding on responsibility, we must not shift responsibility to individuals, but make decisions as a society. There is one question where the citizen plays a primary role in resolving the climate crisis, which is the insistence on politicians of his own choosing, on the leaders of the country, so that they take adequate measures and make the right political decisions. I have put it this way: if my parents' generation and my grandparents' generation were these generations in the world, in Europe and in Estonia, for whom the social model was the model of conquering nature, in which man sought to obtain the resource with maximum efficiency from nature, to shape nature at the most by his own hand, then we have reached a situation where these acts and decisions have led us to a climate crisis. And you can't go on like this. Consequently, my generation, not to mention the generation of my children, must make sense of this problem and be a generation of the restoration of nature. This is the generation that needs to find solutions to make up for the damage that has already occurred and to transform the social model in such a way that we can actually continue to exist in a way that catastrophic climate change can be prevented. It's a necessity, we have to do it. This is not really one choice among others. And this is certainly one of the tasks in which the Estonian people and the Estonian state have a moral responsibility to do so. As has been said, on average per capita we are one of the world's largest polluters. We love to think of ourselves as a people who love nature, but the reality has so far been much different. Consequently, I certainly support that we set greater ambition in climate policy, that we are guided, that we are taking the lead both within the country and internationally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U165	Thank you very much. Now a procedural question, Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U166	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I sat in my office all day and wrote down my wish to speak at first. Coming down here to personally go to the speaker's desk, I discovered I wasn't, or I'm at the end of the list, the last one. This means that I am deprived of the right to speak. In the meantime, what has happened in the electronic system or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U167	Thank you. We had an electronic problem in the meantime when we extended the session. Then I said that we would try to restore all the speakers. We have the next representative of the Fatherland, then we have the Central Party and Reform Party, and then we will actually have your speech. These are all statements by the political groups. Let's try to keep up the pace! We have a little less than 28 minutes, so if everyone uses the concentrate he wants to say in his speech, it is possible that we can do it. Next, I will give the floor to the representative of the Isamaa Group. I understand this is Üllar Saaremäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U168	I'm hoping to make it in five minutes. Honourable waitresses! Dear Riigikogu! Climate change is a reality. There is no point in denying this, but we need to look for solutions to how we meet the goals we have set ourselves. The well-known phrase 'We do not inherit land from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children' is a principle that we should base our decisions on in all our decisions, including environmental and climate policy. However, with great ambitions and objectives, it should not be forgotten that there is a larger or smaller community behind each major objective. In the discussions on climate policy, we again and again confront issues relating to socio-economic impacts and people's livelihoods. These are not unjustified issues, and every decision must be considered as a whole, again in view of the well-being of our future generations. My theme setting focuses primarily on communities and regional policy. It is the support, attitude and understanding of communities that will help to achieve our great goals. To overcome the attitude of "very good, but not only in my backyard," it is not enough mere reproof or, on the contrary, fine words. The local community must realise that it is possible for them to win the decisions that help to achieve our climate goals. For example, the construction of wind farms requires support from people in the planned wind farm area. This support can be achieved if, in addition to the noise from windmills, the community really wins something from this decision. It is therefore fair for the local community to benefit from future investments. This requires clear compensation mechanisms and rules. These are topics that we have not been able to agree on jointly in this Riigikogu so far. The country can also review different restrictions. It is important that we find solutions to issues relating to national defence restrictions in order to establish western and eastern Estonian wind farms. When it comes to regional policy, we cannot miss transport issues. We cannot overcome or reverse the fact that Estonia is a scattered state. From the point of view of meeting climate objectives, this may seem negative. Not all people can be pushed into public transport and thus steered from point A to point B. No matter how much we think about smart public transport solutions, the car remains the main means of transport in Estonia's rural areas. Therefore, our short-term goal could be for the Estonian car park to be renewed and people to use, as far as possible, newer and more environmentally friendly means of transport. But I know from my own knowledge that this is impossible in rural areas for many reasons. At least for now. Despite this simple fact, it must be acknowledged that Estonia's dispersal is a virtue. We have plenty of forests, places untouched by human hands, and beautiful rural areas. The question is whether we can keep them and at the same time meet our own goals. In my opinion, this means more than ever contributing to our infrastructure and transport. In the case of infrastructure, the proper modern charging network must also be taken into account in order to encourage the introduction of electric cars. At the same time, every effort must be made to ensure that the people who have this opportunity would like to use public transport, which in turn should be environmentally friendly. National commands or prohibitions can never be the key to achieving climate objectives. The key solution is to involve people in achieving the objectives. The whole great goal must be based on an increase in people's awareness. Aware consumer also obliges a private operator to make environmentally friendly decisions. In addition to awareness, the second key element is the sense that people only have an environmentally friendly choice to win it in a material sense, but above all in the form of a better living environment. Greener energy and transport, as well as making every person's own home energy-saving, will help to achieve the climate goals. These are issues that people understand, and that is why we should pay particular attention to these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U169	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Saaremäe, for your time. Let's move on. Representative of the Centre Party Group Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U170	Thank you, good manager. Eight minutes, please! Ladies and gentlemen and all those interested in the climate who are following this debate. Climate related issues are crucial for Estonia without any doubt. Since the European money coming in the next budget period is all directly or indirectly linked to climate neutrality, we need to understand clearly what we are talking about. There are many opinions and, unfortunately, fears have spread on this subject. The Centre Party has tried to keep discussions constructive, seeking solutions that would benefit both biodiversity and society. Paraphrasing a quote from a movie: Is that the end? If we look at the wider context of the planet Earth, there have been warmer periods in history than we have now. The hottest times remain in the past of billions of years, with temperatures above 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit [2,000 ° C] and above. Since then, there have been several periods of cooling and warming. If we look specifically at the times when the Earth has lived more complex living organisms, then there are periods in those times, such as 56 million years ago, when the average temperature has been up to eight degrees above today. Mankind's memories of the climate, however, are relatively short-lived, covering the last millenniums. And indeed, the temperature records of this period are now being erected, with a number of reasons, both man - made and natural. Similar temperatures have occurred in the past. For example, after the end of the last great ice age, the temperature in Estonia and elsewhere in Northern Europe was also warmer than the current average of 2 to 3 degrees. So we can say that with our beloved planet Earth probably nothing catastrophic will happen immediately, but in the long run, it is worth keeping watch and care. The question is, do we have a good and safe place to live here as a human being? How do we relate to nature? How do we even think about life, and how do all changes affect biodiversity? It is the biodiversity and abundance of species that are the largest assets in Estonia. Consider the extraordinary number of orchids in Saaremaa. Fortunately, the birch, pine, spruce and alder have not disappeared, although their spread and abundance in the north have changed over the millenniums. We can expect similar changes in the future if global warming continues. Even if we were able to achieve climate neutrality today, temperature and water levels would continue to rise for at least another 100 to 200 years, scientists will say. So peace, only peace, as taught by a well-known book character. There is no reason to panic, but the world is changing, and in such changing circumstances, the countries and nations that anticipate change will most win, act climate-wise and react more quickly than others. The oil-driven economy is also changing. What lies ahead is unknown, but it is clear that nuclear technologies, in addition to wind, sun and hydrogen, are at the heart of energy. For Estonia, therefore, the important question is whether we want to be among the carriers in this process or to be dragged after others. Of course, the security of new technologies must come first. We must not endanger the security of our people. But the smallness and wit of Estonia gives us flexibility as a country, many large countries can only dream of it. We must be resourceful and use this global turn as a stepping stone to move among the world's leading competence centers. And not only in the IT area, but also in the energy and living environment. Climate neutrality is not utopia. We have the opportunity to achieve full energy independence and, as a result, Estonia's future image could be a green digital state. Climate neutrality in the context of the Green Contract means essentially two things. Firstly, zeroing the CO2 balance, and secondly, environmentally sound management as possible. What does this mean in the Estonian context? Should we reduce the use of forest as furnace fuel, stop using oil shale, or move back to the uprights? The answer to all these questions is, of course, no. We can do all of this, but in this case it is our conscious decision, not our obligation under the Green Treaty. The Green Agreement says: behave wisely, and timber also plays a role in forest, housing and furniture production, but also in energy. At the same time, the twisting of concepts should not lead to unreasonable clear cutting, the burning of Estonian logs in Dutch furnaces, for example. Everything must be balanced, as they say. Oil shale can also play a role in climate-neutral Estonia. The oil shale is not a problem, but may be the answer to many problems in finding solutions. Estonia's extraordinary knowledge and skills in using oil shale give us the advantage of using this knowledge to separate oil from other materials contained in oil. One example is the utilisation of old tyres, which can be used in the range of 30% instead of oil shale. A good example of recycling is also one of Europe's most successful battery processing plants in Estonia. For another example, I would like to make all kinds of plastic processing into oil. Since plastic is more often in oil than oil shale, it may be reasonable to place sand or limestone instead of oil shale in the furnace to reduce the concentration of oil. Various ideas on how to solve the waste problems faced by Estonia in oil shale boilers still exist and others. Three. We want life to be better and more comfortable, while at the same time keeping a climate-neutral line. So we need to start building houses smarter, more energy-efficient, more materials close to nature, and also think about how to optimise transport. A good example is self-driving climate-neutral electric buses developed in Estonia. Green turns require innovation in all areas, including waste recycling. Climate neutrality and people's well-being must be a comprehensive idea in all the country's visions for the future. Estonia is made up of good local governments, and in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2035 all local governments must first set this goal for themselves. Then we will reach this goal nationwide. If we do not achieve this by 2035, we will certainly be able to do so by 2050. The health and well-being of our people depend on a clean environment. Happy people are a prerequisite for a successful country. We are all doing this together to make Estonia a green digital state by 2035!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U171	Good waitress, thank you! Your time is up. I will give the floor to Annely Akkermann, representative of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U172	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. The parties to the Paris climate agreement set themselves the goal of achieving a climate-neutral world by 2050. The address transferred to the Riigikogu under the leadership of the Estonian Nature Foundation aims to achieve climate-neutral Estonia by 2035. It would undoubtedly be better if the objective of climate neutrality was achieved earlier. Speaking on behalf of the Reform Party, I consider it necessary to point out that the party has set programme objectives...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U173	Good waitress, I have to apologize to you. Your call is not to be heard in this hall. I have a proposal that you turn off your computer for a moment, and I will give you the floor. But let's keep going. Representative of the Estonian Conservative Party Peeter Ernits, please! Annely Akkermann, if you can hear me, please make another launch for a moment, and I will give you the floor right after that. Please, Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U174	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I heard some eloquences here, but I'm not going to read you the text. I am deeply green, and I remember when the green movement was established in the former political school in Karla's cathedral. The rooms were crowded, and the politicians tried to draw a green card. I performed there on behalf of Estonian naturalists and was whistled out. But I told you what I'm talking about right now. Everything's great. It's the end of the world, we're trying to save, we're demonstrating. But for everything that has been said here today, Academician Aaviksoo has said very well. How was that? Five years in three years! Yes, I remember those women with crying eyes on Kohtla-Järve when the European Commissioner was there during his visit and I sent him. The Commissioner ran back to the bus and asked how it was possible to live here in such a disgusting smell. And when the company of the Committee of the Environment of the Riigikogu arrived there years later, but it was 15 years ago, the situation was still the same. People in Kohtla-Järve and elsewhere in Ida-Virumaa do not have to live in such hellish conditions. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that oil shale, our brown gold, is brown gold, and with these stupidities that come from Brussels, neither I, a person with a deep green background, nor the Estonian Conservative People's Party can agree. The oil shale lies both here and there on the Narva River, but on this side there are Brussels laws, there are no laws. The energy content of oil shale is more or less the same, but on this side, our oil shale industry is strangled by the so-called quota price, the price of CO2 quota, which has been set in Brussels. Yeah, 40 is now, or he's on top, but it could be 90 soon. It's a silk cord that strangles our national industry. And not only the industry, this silk cord that is strangled, it also strangles the people there, the socio-economic background there, if you would like to say in the pulpit. And that's what we and I disagree with. Yeah, five years in three years is beautiful, and maybe these are the young people who come out with it right now. And indeed, you must strive for a better life. But five years in three years isn't real. What does academic Aaviksoo say about this? What has he said? That, in fact, even these objectives are not clear and argumentative as to whether it is possible to proceed in this way. On the other hand, I quote Professor Alar Konist from Tallinn University of Technology, who says that climate neutrality is actually also achieved with oil shale. I'm not going to talk any further, but it's possible to catch it and bury it somewhere. And if there are now 1000 kilograms of carbon dioxide in the production of 1 megawatt-hour energy, then it is actually possible to reduce this amount to only 146 kilograms by means of catch-by-catch. So it is not at all the case that the oil shale industry must be destroyed. I'm going to quote a couple more people through the press. Erik Gamzeyev, what he has said: "Distance doesn't kill, pace kills. Too sudden splashes of the green turn have left Ida-Viru County in the oxygen debt of breathing and drowned the muscles in lactic acid. [---] The green turn propeller has in recent years broken down jobs with good pay in Ida-Virumaa and spread poverty at an enormous pace. " You can totally agree with that. Although I am an ambassador to Tartu and Jõgeva County, I have visited Ida-Virumaa very often. Just recently, I looked north from the Puhatu swamp, where oil shale careers penetrate. So, what do you say in the end? Yeah, maybe a few words about cars. 80% of the oil shale, our brown gold, and the strangling that we disagree with. But there are cars. In 2025, Paris has notified the diesel car...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U175	Good speaker, would you like some extra time? How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U176	As little as possible. The diesel car doesn't go to Paris in 2025. But what happens? Do those diesel and petrol cars disappear or are they sent to the moon? They come here, they come to Estonia. What are we supposed to do? Switch to electric cars. Great, according to today's plans, we should have 4,000 new electric cars a year. Last year was 396. Could you possibly impose some taxes, increase diesel excise or petrol excise, or what else? Guys, this is totally unrealistic! The aim is beautiful, but it's not real. And if we have a plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050, it will, of course, take an exact amount of 17.3 billion, from what you all know. Yes, the private sector would carry most, the country less, but I would remind you that we are having difficulty even finding the 2% NATO amount to protect ourselves from the eastern neighbour, where there is also oil shale. And now another 2% has to be found somewhere. Friends, I have also repeatedly proposed to the Estonian Greta Thunbergs who are in front of the castle: come here, let's look at the Estonian state budget or the state budget strategy! Let's see where we can take it, the 2% at the expense of it! No interest known. And so it has been many times. But it's interesting to so-called protest on Fridays. That's enough. In my opinion, the five-year period must be done in five years, but not in three or two years. This is a clear position between me and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U177	I will give the floor to the representative of the Reform Party Group. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U178	[[Remote connection]] Thanks again! Let's hope it sounds better right now. The parties to the Paris climate agreement set themselves the goal of achieving a climate-neutral world by 2050. The address transferred to the Riigikogu under the leadership of the Estonian Nature Foundation aims to achieve climate-neutral Estonia by 2035. It would undoubtedly be better if the objective of climate neutrality was achieved earlier. Speaking on behalf of the Reform Party, I consider it necessary to point out that the party has set the programme objectives of increasing energy-efficient behaviour and sustainable energy production as well as ensuring energy security and security of supply, in addition to diversifying its energy portfolio, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and reducing the energy intensity of the Estonian economy, as well as raising environmental awareness and reaching a waste-free society by 2050. The Coalition Agreement between the Reform Party and the Centre Party provides for the development of a strategy for hydrogen fuels and a pilot hydrogen project to test...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U179	Dear waitress, we can't hear your voice. The connection's not good. Let's do one more try. Please, Annely Akkermann has the floor. Annely Akkermann, please! Maybe you're trying to do this report without a picture, don't turn the video on. Let's try to give a microphone to Annely Akkermann, if technically possible! My colleagues tell me you're not in the system right now, you can't connect to the Internet. I'm gonna wait a little longer, let's hope Annely Akkermann gets into the system. I'm so sorry, I'm sorry! There is no way to establish this connection now, Annely Akkermann. I therefore propose that we move forward in the debate. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Eduard Odinets!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U180	Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity. I understand I have a minute and a half...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U181	You have time. How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U182	How much is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U183	5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U184	5 + 3 minutes then. I thought we had to finish at 2:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U185	Please, eight minutes. The procedure must be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U186	Got it. Thank you. Then I'll talk as much as I can, even though I got a little nervous, I was just leaving. But, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all those who took part in today's debate, and thank you to our guests for their very exciting presentations. To me, as an ambassador and son of a miner in Ida-Viru County, of course, there is a very important topic that has repeatedly been heard here, i.e. the oil shale issue of Ida-Virumaa, the issue of oil production and everything that comes with it. Dr Anger-Craavi said very nicely that the problem of Ida-Virumaa is an Estonian problem. If it goes badly in Ida-Virumaa, the whole of Estonia will also do badly. And so it is. The people of Ida-Virumaa are also Estonian people, and if it is sometimes said that they are in some way hostile to the environment or do not want these changes or are opposed to climate neutrality, then that is not the case. In fact, they also want our air to be clean if this whole climate issue can be summed up in two words. A previous speaker spoke about the smells of Kohtla-Järve, which we call smells. But we've lived our whole lives in this stinking climate and live next to the oil shale industry. But in fact, we, the people of Ida-Viru County, dream of clean air. The Ministry of Finance conducted a survey before he planned this fair transition. Okay, it wasn't very representative and all the rules made, it was an online survey, and anyone could write it. But in fact, what came out of it: the people of Ida-Virumaa, regardless of their age or area in which they work, most of them wrote that the most important thing they would like to achieve in Ida-Virumaa is a clean environment. And that means that the clean environment is also the subject of the people of Ida-Virumaa. But it is understandable that in order to achieve this clean environment, the climate neutrality that we are talking about here today, we need to think very deeply about what this means for the people of Ida-Viru County from a socio-economic point of view. And not just that. There have already been talk about various influences. Dr Anger-Kraavi also spoke about the fairness of this transition in answer to my question, talking about the various effects it could have. We understand, of course, that this will have an impact on employment, the impact on wage levels, we know what wages are in the oil shale energy sector, the impact on the training market, retraining, but also on social security, the satisfaction of the people not only with their lives, but also with the Estonian state, satisfaction with the Estonian government. And this will lead us to a further impact on integration policy, which we cannot let go of when we are talking about East Viru County and a fair transition. Migration decisions made by people in Ida-Virumaa have an economic impact not only on production locally but also on exports, probably also on electricity prices, heat prices, oil shale prices. Against this background, of course, there is also an impact on the budgets of local governments and, therefore, on public services and the formation of ghost towns, if you could say so. But I, who I come from Kohtla-Järve and this Ahtme district, maybe I can. Of course, it also has advantages: a good impact on the state of the environment, health and the reputation of the region, which is no longer a major environmental polluter. But now it seems that these negative effects are significantly more than positive from a socio-economic point of view. And these are the things we have to deal with. Madis Vasser, who spoke here today, said very nicely: the work for a fair transition began too late. It really started too late. And Ida-Virumaa, said Madis Vasser, is actually not fighting climate change, but is fighting climate change. And this is what the people of Ida-Viru County are talking about, and what I want to talk about here, from the Tribune of the Riigikogu. The people of Ida-Viru County are not against climate neutrality, climate policy. But we want to see a clear plan when we close something, when we finish something. And the current government said very specific deadlines: 2035, 2040. But then we must also have the same strong message from the government when something will happen differently, when new industries will be created, when these new jobs will be created, when the economy of Ida-Viru County will be requoted by Madis. We do not see this plan at the moment, we only hear talk, we read the Commission's protocols, I mean the protocols of the respective committee of the Ministry of Finance. They say we are working on it, you will soon see, you will soon hear, soon this European Union money ship will come and everything will change. And if we compare these stories, the communication that comes from the government, then the closing, termination, interruption stories are very specific, in a very strict tone, with dates in the government coalition agreement. But what we're offering people in return is a very philosophical, amorphic talk about some of the possibilities that the government is going to deal with. When Prime Minister Kaja Kallas took office, I asked him here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu what his message was for the people of Ida-Virumaa. How does he intend to reduce all these fears, socio-economic fears that the people of Ida-Viru County have? And what did Kaja Kallas say back then? He said it was cheating on people when we told them that everything was going on. I have an extra time, don't I?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U187	We're almost out of time. You have seventeen seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U188	We're almost out? Yeah, I'm sorry! Kaja Kallas said to stop cheating on people. We must not constantly give them the hope that nothing will change, that everything will continue. Yes, I agree to stop cheating on people. People have to be told that not everything is going to go on. But then you have to tell people what's gonna be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-04-15_U189	I would like to begin by thanking all those who signed this document and thanks to whom this popular initiative has arrived. I warmly thank the Committee on the Environment, his leader Yoko Alender and officials, I thank today's waitresses Madis Vassar, Tõnis Möldri, Annela Anger-Kraavi and Yoko Alender. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu who took part in this debate. Thank you. The negotiations are closed and this item is also closed. That concludes today's trial. Thank you very much.
