ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 6th working week Tuesday session. Now, as always, it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! I don't see that wish. Before I check in, I have a few messages to tell you. First of all, I would like to remind you that today, after the end of the plenary session, in this Chamber, we will elect the bureau of the Interparliamentary Union, the IPU Estonian Group. All members of the Riigikogu are welcome to this election. But this will take place after the plenary session. The second message is that today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Higher Education Support Group, the convener being Margit Sutrop. Okay, now there's a presence check. Please! Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U2	66 members of the Riigikogu registered. We also have a little detail on the agenda. In fact, at the debate on today's third item, the draft law amending the Youth Work Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group at first reading 411, a member of the Committee on Culture, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, will make a presentation of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to give his consent to the removal of the immunity of the Riigikogu member, Mailis Reps, and to the continuation of legal proceedings against him. Before I ask the Chancellor of Justice to speak here, I would like to draw your attention to how we deal with this item. First of all, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis will be able to present his position for up to 15 minutes. Then, says the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, a member of the Riigikogu is able to ask the Chancellor of Justice one oral question. At the end of the questions, negotiations are also open where members of the Riigikogu and representatives of the committees and groups can speak. Once these negotiations have been concluded, the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice will be put to the vote. I would point out that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of the proposal. All right, Chancellor, the chair is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U4	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! In accordance with § 76 and § 139 (3) of the Constitution, § 1 (3) of the Chancellor of Justice Act and § 3826 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I propose to the Riigikogu to remove the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu from Mailis Reps. The consent of the Riigikogu is needed to continue criminal proceedings against Mailis Reps. I stress that making this proposal, or possibly withdrawing the immunity of an ambassador, does not mean that a member of the Riigikogu is guilty of a crime. Nor does it suspend his powers as a member of the Riigikogu. The term of office of a member of the Riigikogu ends when the court decides to condemn him and that decision enters into force. As the law requires, I will read out what a member of the Riigikogu is suspected of. The crimes against suspected Mailis Reps have been summarised as follows in the application of the prosecutor's office. First, according to doubt, Mailis Reps acted as an official for the purposes of § 201 (2) (3) of the Penal Code (i.e. the acquisition as an official), and § 209 (2) (2) of the Penal Code as an official for the purposes of § 288 (1) of the Penal Code, whose legal competence was to dispose of and use the state assets entrusted to it. This means that, from a certain amount of money, a misdemeanor becomes a crime. Secondly, Mailis Reps is suspected of committing a continuing crime arising out of a participative act classified according to § 201 (2) (3) of the Penal Code, which is that Mrs Reps, as an official, has unlawfully transferred to her the total amount of foreign assets entrusted to her for her benefit, not less than EUR 3579 and 6 cents. Thirdly, Mailis Reps is suspected of committing a continuing crime classified in accordance with § 209 (2) (2) (2) of the Penal Code, which consists in the fact that, as an official of Mailis Reps, a total of 6155 euros and 15 cents of property damage caused the Republic of Estonia by creating an incorrect perception of the facts for the purpose of obtaining the property benefit. The subject matter of the suspicion is specified in the request of the State Attorney General. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Chancellor of Justice will examine the file if necessary, but the Chancellor of Justice will of course not take the place of the court, will not assess the existence of guilt, the adequacy of the evidence collected or any other matter that the court must do. In the course of the statutory inspection, we examined the criminal file from the page of this page, which is very extensive material, and we also listened to the defenders of Mailis Reps, as requested. These actions did not reveal any circumstances which would suggest that the opening of criminal proceedings or prosecutions would have taken place on an inappropriate basis, such as political motives, and would clearly be unfounded. Once again: When making this proposal to the Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice does not assess the existence of the accused's guilt or its proof. The Riigikogu will not decide today on the guilt issue of Mailis Reps if it agrees to continue criminal proceedings against him in the circumstances described above. In accordance with § 22 (1) of the Constitution, no person may be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has taken effect. The withdrawal of the immunity of the ambassador will only provide an opportunity to continue criminal proceedings against Mailis Reps and to find out the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U5	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. Jürgen Ligi, you have a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U6	Thank you for that explanation. But since there have been other signals in this Chamber, I ask how you would help the members of the Riigikogu to decide. If we vote against it, what should we conclude from your explanations about this vote against, what fears about our rule of law or any reproach on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U7	In accordance with the law, the debate on this issue must remain within the scope of the application submitted by the prosecutor's office and the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. All I can say here is that a member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps, himself, has asked for legal proceedings and for the truth to be established in court. It is a constitutional practice that, in such a case, if the Chancellor of Justice has examined the file and came to you with this proposal, the immunity of the ambassador will be withdrawn without further ado. The powers of a member of the Riigikogu do not stop; a member of the Riigikogu does his work further. But the court will explain what is right and what is wrong. If the decision enters into force, the member of the Riigikogu shall be released from guilt or his or her powers shall cease.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U8	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U9	Good manager! Let's keep going. If my colleague Ligi wanted to know how to judge when he or someone votes against, I ask what to think about when someone votes in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U10	In doing so, a member of the Riigikogu performs his duties according to conscience and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U11	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U12	Thank you. I have a question about another opera, but since the Chancellor of Justice is in front of us, I'm taking this opportunity. How objective can we consider the prosecution's assessments to be in one, another or third question? I'm not talking about the Mailis Reps case here at all. One of the prosecutors in charge of the prosecutor's office, Taavi Pern, has been removed from the trial in Tartu because he has presented false information, forged and whipped, in short, has done what a law enforcement officer cannot do under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U13	Unfortunately, I must reiterate that, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure which governs this procedure here today, I have a duty to remain within the scope of the request in response. Therefore, in general, I can only say that if an official, including an official who works in a responsible place in the prosecutor's office, has acted in a way that is deplorable and creates mistrust for both this organisation and the Estonian state, this issue must be dealt with separately and resolved. In the debate on this item, I am afraid, it is not a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U14	Mr. Pier, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U15	No, I'm sorry, it just happened. I don't know how to erase it. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U16	Okay, we'll erase it, don't worry. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! There is probably no dispute about the fact that there is an application from the Attorney General, under whom Taavi Pern also works as the prosecutor, who was removed from the trial because of circumstances that may also indicate the signs of the crime. These two things are, in fact, directly causally linked to the issue of today's day of how much we can trust the prosecutor's office now if there are processes inside that are not appropriate for fair justice. My question to you is: do you have any right or authority to initiate any kind of investigation against Taavi Pern?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U18	Specific prosecutors and prosecutors of different rank are not subject to the supervision of the Chancellor of Justice. The monitoring mechanism is different. The Chancellor of Justice can only assess the activities of the prosecutor's office within the framework of the principle of good administration. Officials who are guilty of violating their duties shall be liable under other laws and, if necessary, shall be convicted by the court. Let me remind you that the Chancellor of Justice can refuse to submit such a proposal to the Riigikogu, as we are discussing here today, only if the examination of the specific material submitted to the Chancellor of Justice reveals that coming before you is manifestly unfounded. This was not the case in this case. The Code of Criminal Procedure, in particular § 3828 (4) also states that the questions of the members of the Riigikogu and the answers of the Chancellor of Justice must remain within the limits of the material submitted to the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, I have to comply with this law, and so I cannot give you the answers you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U19	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your observation. I, too, would have liked to draw the members of the Riigikogu's attention to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which states that we should still be within this agenda item. The Chancellor of Justice will also go before us with an annual review and then be able to ask him in broad terms within the fields of activity of the Chancellor of Justice. So I would very much like us to stick to the point of view of the Rules of Procedure within the framework of this item on the agenda. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U20	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good waitress! I'm not the most competent of all legal, but here's the question. Is it only then through court that it is possible for Mailis Reps to prove his innocence and, if he is not, then it remains, say, an unfounded accusation at the media level? Perhaps if we take the integrity of the ambassador, we will have the opportunity to defend our good reputation and the good reputation of the Riigikogu in a court of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U21	Thank you very much for your question. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U22	Ladies and gentlemen, Before we started discussing this point, I introduced the procedure for this point, among other things I said that every member of the Riigikogu has an oral question. Thank you, Chancellor. No more questions for you. Thank you for your presentation and your proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I will open negotiations. Does anyone have a wish to speak? No, it's not. Then we need to vote through the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice has proposed to give his consent to remove the immunity of the Riigikogu member, Mailis Reps, and to continue legal proceedings against him. Who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal? Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U23	56 members of the Riigikogu supported the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. The proposal has been accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U24	Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to the second item on the agenda today: the first reading of the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Jaak Valge, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear technical staff! I'll get right to the point. But for starters, I still have to focus on the meaning of referendums.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U26	Mr. White! I'm sorry for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, If we want to have a conversation, we will do it outside this room, otherwise it will be very difficult for Mr White to present this bill here. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U27	This is also because, at this meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where this draft was discussed, the government representative expressed the government's view that we Estonians have still not developed enough to decide our own questions in referendums. But I'll come back to that at the end. One of the main objectives of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is to give citizens the widest possible discretion. In fact, this is a form of government called democracy. It has always been treated as a form in which citizens make their own decisions either directly or through elected representatives. In recent decades, there has also been much talk about liberal democracy, which also highlights the need to protect personal and collective rights. But they cannot be opposed and, in principle, they cannot distort the core of democracy either. Otherwise, if it were to wrong the core of democracy, this would be the situation described by the great soldier Šveyk, that there is another earth within our world that is far greater than what it is inside. Similarly, it would be deeply misleading to contrast representative democracy with direct democracy. It would just be a denial of one of the tools of democracy. To say that citizens are easily manipulated in referendums, it should be acknowledged that it is quite easier to manipulate representatives and, if we are to be consistent, elections should first be abandoned. Referendums help to create a coherent society and prevent citizens from becoming alienated from politics. The country with the closest referendums is also one of the most prosperous countries in the world, namely Switzerland. Since the 1990s, most of the Eastern European countries have had national referendums, namely 20, in Slovenia. It is no wonder that in this country the human development index is also the highest in Eastern Europe. At the same time, 14 referendums have taken place in Lithuania and nine in Latvia. But the Estonian referendum culture, on which we started between the two world wars, when the Slovenian state did not exist at all, is fading. We have only had two national referendums since the restoration of independence, the last one 18 years ago. Referendums still work as instruments of democracy only in those countries that enjoy civil liberties and political rights. Examples from Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, which are sometimes charlatanized in referendums, are not really bad. After all, we do not rule out elections to Parliament and other chambers because they also take place in many authoritarian countries. Referendums can be legally binding and non-binding. The latter is often identified by an advisory referendum and is called a soft instrument or soft form of direct democracy. The concept of a non-binding referendum in Estonian legislation does not exist; instead, we use the concept of a popular poll. But that doesn't mean there's no such non-binding referendum on the face of the earth. Of course, binding referendums are better than non-binding, because the signal given to citizens in this way is clear: only your vote counts. Some countries have also introduced the binding nature of the referendum since a certain majority of the votes cast or a certain proportion of the votes cast and participation of citizens. However, it is often confirmed before the referendum that although it is legally non-binding, the result is considered to be politically binding. This was the case with the Brexit referendum. Referendums take place in European countries at both national and local level. In the local government, they can, of course, only take place on matters falling within the competence of the local government, just as the local council cannot exceed the limits of its competence, and in the referendum, the voters of the local council have the power of decision. The rules of local referendums vary quite differently from country to country. A referendum may be initiated by a local executive or representative body such as Austria, Norway, Poland, France, Slovakia, Finland and the Czech Republic. People can initiate local referendums in, for example, Bulgaria, Norway, France, Germany, Slovakia, Slovenia and Switzerland. Local referendums are binding on at least some issues, not all issues such as Iceland, Italy, Poland, Switzerland and the Czech Republic. As noted in his book by one of the leading experts in local democracy, Professor Theo Schiller of the University of Marburg, local referendums in European countries have been a success story since the 1990s. But just as in the case of national referendums, Estonia looks down on other European countries, and we are also an exception and not a positive exception to local referendums. We haven't had a success story. In Finland, while I did not have 48 local referendums between 1991 and 2007, we have many petitions, petitions, which we demagogically call a popular initiative, but only two referendums have taken place in Tallinn, and our media worked against them in every way. Okay. Now I'm going to get more specific, and I'm going to tell you the story of this bill. Namely, in 2018, the members of the Saaremaa Municipality Government approached the Chancellor of Justice with the question of whether it is legitimate to introduce the possibility of a binding referendum in the municipal statute. The Chancellor of Justice replied that the local referendum between 1993 and 1999 was one of the forms of local government's realization. More specifically, it was not regulated by the law. The Chancellor of Justice continued that the Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act was adopted on 30 September 1999. § 1 of the Act lost the local referendum provided for in § 2 (2) of the KOKS. The amendment was justified by the need to bring the law into line with the Constitution. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice stated that the Constitution did not, however, prohibit the legislator from supplementing the representative democratic model of local government with the institutions of direct democracy, including the local referendum, and the justification for the abolition of the local referendum from KOKS was not legally correct. I'm telling you, he's lost. "Lost" means there was something before, but now there isn't. You can't lose what you didn't have before. In this case, therefore, the possibility of a local referendum was envisaged before, which was abolished. Restoring this means restoring the former situation where a local referendum was possible. With this bill, it has been requested to restore it. In particular, Paragraph 2 (2) (2) is intended to amend and formulate the following: "to be carried out through democratically formed representative and authority bodies, as well as through popular surveys, initiatives and votes on local life issues. " It's a little different and clearer than it was before 1999. Here at the moment, one "or" has simply been replaced by the word "and." Go on. If this restoration is approved, if such a miracle happens, this does not mean that binding referendums can be held in local governments immediately. However, this means that local governments, local government councils, would have the right to write into their statutes more precise regulations, whether and how to hold these referendums, including, for example, when the results are binding and can be initiated by residents and, if they can initiate residents, what is the threshold of 10% of the local government's voting population or 30%, etc. There is no reason to believe that councils here would behave in any way avantyristically, because who would still want to give up their power as a bill of lading. On the contrary, it is reasonable to believe that councils will consider very carefully whether and how to initiate referendums or how to give them the opportunity to initiate referendums and how to organise them. They, councils, know the issues of local life better. One might say that in some places these thresholds may be the same, in another place they may be different. Okay. However, as I pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is not excluded that this draft could be supplemented and that there would already be thresholds and other conditions, which would then apply nationwide, in all local authorities. Unfortunately, since the 1990s, our country has become bureaucratic, becoming an official-centred country, and all issues are being very precisely regulated. I have to say, I don't like this approach, but I have to accept it. I understand that the Chancellor of Justice is also supporting this approach at the moment. In the 1990s, a mere provision like that would have been sufficient, but I now understand that the Chancellor of Justice also thinks that perhaps it would be better to supplement it. However, the main thing, whether in one way or another, is the will to create a referendum. Unfortunately, as I pointed out at the beginning, the representative of the government in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the main reason why the government does not support the draft is that the maturity of Estonian society compared to Switzerland or Germany is not sufficient and with binding results a referendum, a popular initiative, could lead to opportunities for demagogic exploitation of the inhabitants of local government in the interests of political struggle. This basic reasoning, if it still remains, we will never fail to liquidate with a comprehensive draft. If the government coalition doesn't trust the people, he still doesn't. I don't like drama either, I don't like it at all. I think that from this speech chair in the Riigikogu, things are constantly being dramatized. But I find that the government's main justification is, in fact, humiliating our Estonian society. It's worse than Päts did in his day with this message that the people are sick. Look, the disease is kind of a temporary thing, okay? But if it hasn't been ripened yet, it can still happen for a very long time or it can be interpreted as being a very long process. A new left-wing opinion leader even thought that it would take about 700 years to organise referendums, although in Latvia and Lithuania, and, as has been said, in Slovenia and in very many countries where statehood has been shorter, it is still being done now. It's even worse than Päts' announcement in his day that the people are sick. And not only humiliating, even though it's humiliating, but I think it's a very classic example of an autocratic attitude. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U28	The members of the Riigikogu also have questions for you. Mart Helme starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Jack! In recent times, we have received the topic of budgets involving our wings in Estonia. This is the place where basically the people are talking about using tax money, state money, local government money in such a way that what residents of local government consider most appropriate to improve their quality of life or to remedy any shortcomings. Can we view it as one of the swallows that points to the winds in the south that the people really want these referendums? If we also take the collections of signatures that have been carried out throughout Estonia on many occasions and in tens and tens of thousands, are they not also saying that it is really time not only to hold local referendums, but also to hold a national referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U30	Thank you for that question. Yes, I agree with you, Mart, that these circumstances speak a very clear language, that our citizens want a greater say in deciding their own matters. In addition, all surveys, carried out at different times, speak the same way: about 4/5 of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia would also like to change the constitution in such a way that the citizens themselves have the opportunity to initiate binding referendums, say 3/4/4/5 on the basis of different polls. Actually, it's always been like this. I have also said here several times that Estonia's referendum culture began between the two world wars, when Estonia was second after Switzerland in the frequency of referendums. But since the restoration of independence, we have fallen completely into the shadow of the red lights.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U31	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Jack! At the beginning of the 1990s, when we began to recreate the Republic of Estonia, my friends and I had this feeling that now we can get back this free good Estonia, but unfortunately, as always the tax collectors and the Pharisees were hiding in the temple. Today we have come to a place where referendums are no longer trusted, because we are not so mature. This means that if society is not mature, then you, Jaak, mature, are not me mature, all of us sitting in this hall are not mature, because we cannot be trusted. Neither can we trust the people, nor is Mr. Liigi ripe. Consequently, I would still like to know which questions we could put to the referendum in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U33	Thank you for your question. This spectrum can be completely wide. We do have a constitutionally fixed that some of the issues that concern, for example, the budget must not be put to a referendum, but, in the case of local authorities, this spectrum may be much wider. In fact, these questions would be what the local people themselves want if they could be set up by means of a public initiative. I can give you some examples of Tartu. In Tartu, I think, the location of the centre of culture has been one of the most burning issues. This is actually exactly the question that could be put to the referendum. This would create a constructive dialogue. People would think of themselves as pros and cons, then they would vote and decide. Another question that I can give you from Tartu is some street names. I live on Peller Street. Whoever went to the University of Tartu and graduated from it a few decades ago like me, it knows that it was Rudolf Pälson Street in its time. Pälson was a Communist revolutionary. But after the restoration of Estonia's independence, the name of Pepleri Street in the 1930s was not restored, namely General Ernst Põddra Street. Instead, the name of this street was restored to the name of the landowner of his time, Wilhelm Peper. I'd think it would be the place where the residents could easily decide for themselves. Some other questions, too. For example, the decision of the honorary citizen of the city of Tartu has caused tensions in Tartu. Why can't people decide that in a referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U34	Mr. White, if you move Mr. Schiller a little to the right, you will also see those in the queue of the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U35	Oh, I see.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U36	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You referred to the example of Switzerland. I think there have been over 260 referendums there since 2010, but at the same time we know that Swiss society is one of the welfare states. I see now such a moment in this matter that the referendum also disciplines the ambassadors to keep their promises. Because if the question still goes to a referendum and the ambassador has promised one and the other, but does not comply, then it is still the reason for the referendum. I would also transfer it now to Estonian society, where the ambassadors promise anything before the elections and practically no responsibility for anything. Is it right for me to have a referendum in the local government to discipline our ambassadors in their conduct and in keeping with their promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U38	Thank you for your question. I think that these Swiss numbers were not quite correct, but I very much appreciate this question. In fact, referendums, particularly binding referendums launched by the people, have a very strong preventive role. This means that you see that if the people who have been elected to representative bodies know that the people can actually disprove their decision, if this decision is not acceptable by the majority of the people, then they will behave in a completely different way. They are acting like real people's representatives, aren't they? We now have in the Constitution that if a referendum is decided differently than the Riigikogu has decided, the Riigikogu should be dissolved. Personally, I think that's basically the right thing to do. In that case, the Riigikogu is not the mirror of the opinion of our society, which it should be. Others have thought that, in order to prevent the Riigikogu from kicking so hard against the amendment to the Constitution, which provides for binding referendums and also popular initiatives, this provision should still be removed so that the Riigikogu should be dissolved. Well, it can and can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U39	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Jack! I'm always interested in details. The initiators, I think, can't be more than 10%. If you put 30 in a town like Tallinn, you'll never get it together. Maybe 10% get together, they're launching a referendum. Look, if it takes less people than it did, for example 9%, and 2/3 of them do not support it and 1/3 supports it, then it leaves 3% of those who support it. How, however, can we do this mechanism in such a way that this referendum is not a narrow group, but really a vote by the people? Secondly, I ask...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U41	Thank you. I guess the devil is in the details. Therefore, it would be useful to leave these thresholds to the local government councils. Indeed, in Tallinn this 30% does not come together in any way, it is very believable, but in some smaller municipalities 30% in total can be very easily obtained. Okay. How can we increase participation in a referendum, for example, so that it does not remain the decision of a small faction? It is quite clear that it will increase participation if the result of the referendum is binding. This means that in this case the citizen knows that the way he votes, the way the majority votes, it stays, and no one can change it later. If he knows that maybe the council, Riigikogu or any other institution can change or cancel it, he or she will have to respond to this question, won't he, or will not come at all. There are also very different approaches in different countries. For example, in Switzerland, where the referendum culture is the longest and fully developed, it is very common that people who really are not affected by this issue will not have to vote. Let's say, if, for example, 14% gives a yes vote, 12% is against, the rest doesn't come, it's nothing special, in this case the Swiss simply accept that the indifferent didn't vote. At least for the time being, we might still need to apply for as much involvement as possible. Perhaps, then, we could gradually reach this state of maturity in Switzerland as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U42	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Jack! You went further on the example of Switzerland, and you also talked a little bit more about Slovenia. But what about the old countries of Europe? In Germany, for example, are there referendums at local government level or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U44	Thank you. After all, according to Germany, our political alliance has often been aligned. In Germany, there were also referendums in the 1930s under the conditions of Nazi Germany, the results of which cannot be regarded as adequate referendum results. But I believe that when Germany put together its post-war constitution, it was probably taken into account. There will be no national referendums in Germany, as I said at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, local referendums are taking place in many Länder. I don't have these numbers available in Theo Schiller's book, but they're relatively frequent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U45	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U46	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! The report also mentioned that we are faced with parliamentary, or representative democracy, and direct democracy, completely in vain. Well, this contrast isn't so artificial, or it's based on what you've been looking for. I think it is quite clear that direct democracy gives more power to the people, and that means that politicians, or people of representative democracy, have less power or control over them more or more directly. There's the whole point. But the question itself is this. Knowing that the main or real cause of the problem is the unwillingness of politicians to share power more with the people, how can we get around it? After all, decisions are finally made by politicians.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U47	Thank you. The unwillingness to share power, nor do we, our society, have any other option than to explain to citizens who choose their representatives that one of the instruments of democracy is completely unused in our country. Then it must be made clear that they should select representatives of the people who are making such changes, which also give the citizens of this tool, which is not presently there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U48	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This has been the subject of popular polls and referendums. Why don't you, Jaak, explain the difference between a folk poll and a referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U50	Thank you. In the Estonian legal space, the term "people's survey" means a non-binding referendum, which, let's say, in a broader sense. Well, a little bit of the term "people's survey" devalues that public decision-making. It is often confused with research. I, as I pointed out in the report, prefer to use the term 'non-binding referendum', 'legally non-binding referendum'. As I said before, even if this referendum is not legally binding, it does not mean that those who initiate the referendum, I mean the House of Representatives, could not declare that it would become politically binding, so that the way citizens vote would remain so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U51	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm coming back to the immaturity of this people with a little political malaka taste. When we joined the European Union, we were completely mature to make this decision, then the quality of the people suddenly turned immature. Has there ever been a reasonable statement in our public discussion that confirms this immaturity, or is it simply a malaka?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U53	Thank you for your question. I don't think I'm making any sense... I don't know if it's appropriate to use the word "reasonable" about it. I do not know of any arguments against referendums that would not be disputable. Well, it has been argued that the time of our statehood is too short. This is not due to the fact that in very many countries where the time of statehood is much shorter than in Estonia, successful referendums are taking place. It has been argued that for some reason we are not ripe for democracy. It has been argued that democracy must have been experienced for a very long time in order to be mature for democracy. But if you come up with this argument, it would be so that no country could be democratic, because if democracy was transferred, there was still no experience before. This maturity of democracy has been defined by political scientists with a wide range of parameters. One of them is indeed an earlier experience of democracy. But there are a lot of other parameters that we all have very well met: the high level of our literacy, our high level of education, our socially and economically relatively homogeneous society, we say, the average level of prosperity in the European context, the high level of prosperity in the world context. There are many things that clearly show that the maturity of our democracy is sufficient and maybe it is already becoming overripe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U54	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Did you answer Mr Breivel's question here about the subject of these possible referendums? Is it reasonable to give the local government the limit? Or should the law, however, provide for problems that obviously arise sooner or later, and this idea, well, the bill is made up of four lines, however, to be unwritten somehow? Do you see that this bill could become much more specific during the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U56	Thank you. As I said, I would prefer to have as few regulations as possible, or rather to leave these regulations to local councils. Because they know the local conditions better. You yourself gave a very good example that the 30% threshold would not work in Tallinn, for example, but some smaller municipality would work. Okay. If it is indeed a condition for binding referendums to be allowed or allowed, it is that we are already writing more precise national regulations into this draft, then it can be done. But, as I said, it would be extremely regrettable if this legal pretext was used to conceal its political stance that, at all, it is not recommended that these binding local referendums be laid down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U57	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Since, among other things, folk polls and referendums were compared with an inclusive budget and parallels were found and so did you, I was thinking that this kind of public poll was actually organised by TV3 'Seventh News' every night. Last night, the question was whether the speeches of the EKRE management split Estonian society. 66% thought they were, and 34% thought they weren't. But that's my question. EKRE is very fond of popular polls and votes. I understand that the opinion of the people is so important to you. I assume that you already discussed the results of this poll this morning in the group, perhaps even decided that you would change your rhetoric. If you didn't discuss it yet, my question is, when will you discuss it and draw your own conclusions from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U59	Thank you for that question. Well, I believe that all the listeners, as well as the chairman of the meeting, agree that this issue did not concern this matter and that failure to answer this question does not reflect my arrogance to the questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U60	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U61	Thank you, Mr President. If you compare the holding of a referendum in Estonia and Switzerland, Switzerland is certainly above the mountain level. Basically, I say it is a democratic country. But what is interesting is that in Estonia some political parties, I mean specifically the Reform Party, some ambassadors have mentioned that 70% of the Estonian people are stupid or stupid. The question now is why Estonian political circles, with the exception of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, who stands for democracy and wants a referendum, are opposed to this referendum. Why are some political circles opposed to referendums, with the exception of the EKRE?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U62	Thank you for your question. To answer briefly, it is actually such a hidden authoritarian attitude. It is that we know better and the citizens do not know, rather than acknowledge that we are, in fact, the servants of the people here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U63	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U64	Thank you. You promised not to dramatize, but it is still a very dramatic statement from the representative democrat that we must only rely on public opinion and do not need to be smarter than the average person. That's the basic tone of your story. But in response to the previous speaker: indeed, we have never said that the support of the EKRE is 70%. However, how do you respond to this question, which Valdo Randpere asked about, if you ask the public about the EKRE, whether it will split up or whether it should exist, what do you think, because you always have more opponents than supporters, how would you change your activities in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U65	Thank you for your question. First of all, I do not agree with the interpretation you have just given me here, contrasting representative democracy and direct democracy. But, yes, the content of the question is not yet relevant. I think I can talk about it quite well in some debate about it, but this is not the issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U66	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U67	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Colleagues from the next bench line are concerned about why televotes are not direct democracy in this sense. The TV votes have also repeatedly asked whether you support the Kaja Kallas Government and some of its steps. Usually, some 78% say no. I have not heard the leading party draw any conclusions from this popular opinion. But my question. The introduction to this draft states that according to the Local Government Organisation Act in 1993-1999, the local referendum was a form of local government. Do you have any good examples of how local life was organized?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U68	Unfortunately, there are no good examples from that time either. There are good examples of many other European countries, unfortunately not Estonia. But I think things have changed a lot by now. I am, of course, extremely sorry that we did not renew our referendum culture with the marriage referendum that had to take place in spring. However, what we have achieved by raising this issue is that many more people in society are now conscious that we have another tool for democracy that we have not used so far. I am absolutely convinced that if we now made this amendment, which would allow binding referendums, it would indeed be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U69	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, good Jaak! Of course I don't think you're arrogant, I know you're not arrogant, I have a full story about you, I didn't mean to pick a fight. But you did answer Mart Helme's question from an inclusive budget earlier. This televised interview is about as close to your presentation today as the Mardi question was. You answered Mardi, you didn't answer me. Helle-Moonika also came in the meantime and spoke about how we, the Reform Party, are not listening to the polls conducted on television, but we are not promoting a referendum instead of representative democracy. That's the difference. That's another thing. I had a very specific survey result: 66% said that the EKRE would split, 34% said that it would not split. That's what I asked you about. What's the conclusion now that you didn't answer me? If the question doesn't fit and you don't like the answer, don't you comment? But you did answer Martin, didn't you? Why don't you answer me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U71	Thank you. Well, what's the answer? First of all, it's not about the subject, even because it's a television interview. This has nothing to do with a referendum or even some sociological survey, sociological research. These are some random polls that some people answer and some people don't answer. I remember, for example, the way in which one of the leaders of the Social Democrats, who was still part of the Centre Party at the time, being a young politician, clicked on these answers in some kind of television poll. It is not controlled by anyone, it is inadequate and it is neither a study nor a referendum nor anything. As a result, this has nothing to do with this issue. An inclusive budget is more relevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U72	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U73	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good Jack! Undoubtedly TV3 polls are very exciting and could immediately take a separate day and take them on. I don't think the EKRE results should be ashamed, maybe some other party should have more. But can you tell me how much support there is among the people to make more referendums and more often? I'm sure it's been studied.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U74	Yeah, well, that's the question. As far as I am concerned, we have not carried out any polls on how many people support referendums at local level. However, there have been, on a regular basis, polls on how many people support the [amendment] of the Constitution in such a way as to enable citizens to initiate binding referendums. There's that support from 75% to 80%. This support has been a bit volatile, but it's been a big one. There have been few opponents, 10% or 15%.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U75	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U76	Thank you. In this sense, I agree with my colleague from the next bench line that we still have to look to some extent at what these TV polls do. But I, having also observed them myself, can see that, however, as far as these polls have been, the answer to this last poll was yes, as it was, the majority have been, where people have responded, that they are not satisfied with the actions of the current government, they are not satisfied with the Prime Minister, they are of the opinion that the Prime Minister and the current government are not able to manage the state in very many areas of life. However, I think we can also count on the voice of the people in this regard. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U77	Well, he might be some kind of identity, if the question is adequate and really most of it goes to one side. Well, he may have some sort of identity that might be worth studying more about. But he does not, in principle, relate to referendums or studies; they are different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U78	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U79	Thank you. One of the most important fundamental principles of democracy is to protect minorities from the majority of people who don't care. Let us imagine, then, more specifically, leaving TV3 aside that if most people and certainly the rest of the parties think that the EKRE organised the event on Saturday, there is no art in conducting a public survey and asking the public whether the EKRE should be responsible for fighting vaccination and putting the parties involved in this event directly at risk of the virus. It's a general understanding that the EKRE did, the EKRE is guilty. How would you interpret this popular survey and the result that is expected to be unfavourable to you? Is it democratic?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U80	Thank you. I will begin by repeating, at the beginning of my presentation, that, in recent decades, there has been particularly much talk about liberal democracy. In this respect, it is indeed emphasised that personal and collective rights, as well as the rights of minorities, must also be protected. But it still does not wrong the basic principle of democracy that it is the decision-making power of citizens. And how do you decide otherwise than with a majority decision? Now, here's another example. Let's just say that this example is likely to apply somewhere in an authoritarian country where proper referendums cannot be held. You see, in a democratic country there is an opportunity to explain to citizens who was the main organiser of the demonstration, and citizens can understand that. If, for example, such a referendum had been held in the Soviet Union and the whole media at the same time had argued that the EKRE was the main organiser, then perhaps the result would indeed have come as you think. But that is not the case in a democratic country. In a democratic country, people, citizens, can be calmly explained for a certain period of time and citizens can understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U81	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Two parliamentarians from the Reform Party, who have been sitting in this Chamber for tens of years, have still not understood what a referendum is. Why don't you explain to them, Jaak, what makes the TV3 polls different from the monetary prize, the polls in the local government, or the referendums?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U83	Yeah. Very simple. There is a difference between an adequate definition of the question and the outcome of a binding referendum; all those who wish to vote will be able to vote within the appropriate time. In this sense, this TV3 poll is just a small indication, as I said before, that has nothing to do with the referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U84	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, you mentioned that someone claimed that the Estonian people were not mature for democracy or for the initiation and conduct of referendums, and this would take at least 700 years. Was this person really a member of the Riigikogu and was in the committee where the debate took place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U86	Thank you. I would like to say that it is not the person who mentioned that we would need another 700 years first. But I'm afraid this person, Ahto Lobjakas, will set an example for a lot of people. However, the official communicating the government's position in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs noted that Estonian society is not yet ripe for a referendum compared to Switzerland and Germany. Although I myself became relatively upset with this government representative or official, he was actually a messenger, and he reflected the government's position. It is very sad that the government has such a position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U87	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U88	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am moved by your last response to ask: is there an organ in the government, a think tank competent to evaluate the maturity of the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U89	Not that I know of. I would say, first of all, that even this question, whether the people are mature or not, is immature.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U90	Mr. White! No more questions for you. Thank you! It is now possible to hear the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please, Toomas Stone Mountain!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U91	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 12 October inclusive. As not all members of the Commission participated, I will read who participated this time: Toomas Kivimägi, Uno Kaskpeit, who was Kalle Grünthal's alternate, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Paul Puustusmaa, Marko Storm and Mart Võrguship. The initiator's representative, Mr Jaak Valge, and the Legal Adviser of the Regional Administrative Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Olivia Tellus, were invited. I immediately admit that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we did not really go into day politics in this debate. I had just a little discussion with my colleague, Mr Randpere, whether we should assess the goodness of a draft or not, putting it into day politics. It's a discussion place. I actually don't think that should be done. Some people think that this should be done, but at least the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not bring the day-to-day policy into this debate. Mr Jaak Valge gave an even more comprehensive overview of this draft, i.e. what he said here, I think, almost 100% of what he said in the Commission. That is why I am not going along the path that no one asked what anyone thought, because all these positions, which are also in the protocol, have been reflected here by Mr Jaak White. I may mark three or four important keywords. The first fundamental question was whether or not the introduction of a local referendum requires an amendment to the Constitution. This is obviously a very different mind for legal scientists. On the one hand, one of the reasons why this could be expected is that § 56 of the Constitution says that the highest state power is exercised by the people through citizens with voting rights by election of the Riigikogu and referendum. However, it does not regulate local referendums. This could give rise to an analogy: one could assume that if we want to have local referendums, they should also be governed by the Constitution. The second fact, which perhaps speaks in favour of it, is that, as Mr White also pointed out, the local referendum between 1993 and 1999 was included in the law on the organisation of local government. When it was abolished in 1999, one reason was that it was not compatible with the Constitution. This is another thing that speaks in favour of being governed by the Constitution. However, I personally do not think that it should necessarily be governed by the Constitution. For me, there is not much greater authority than the honourable Chancellor of Justice, who has said that the Constitution does not prohibit the legislator from supplementing the representative democratic model of local government with the institutions of direct democracy, including the local referendum. There was a sentence in the brackets that, therefore, the justification for the abolition of the local referendum from KOKS, i.e. the contradiction with the Constitution, was not legally correct. That's what I'm thinking. At the same time, we will also look at § 160 of the Constitution. It says that the organisation of local government is provided by law. I think that Article 160 of the Constitution actually gives a mandate to regulate it in such a way as not to establish or lay down a local referendum at constitutional level, but to allow it to be done at law level. So once again, there are different opinions here. I do not agree at this point with Mr White's argument that, since it was there in 1993-1999 and is talking about losing, that in itself means that it was in accordance with the Constitution at the time. It couldn't have been like that. Okay, no one challenged it, we can assume [that it was], but it might not have been. But once again, my position and conclusion is that this draft does not conflict with the Constitution, the introduction of a local referendum by a separate law or by supplementing the law on the organisation of local government. The second question is indeed about these terms, whether it is a 'binding referendum' or a 'legally non-binding referendum'. The honourable rapporteur also mentioned that these options differ widely. Indeed, there are both binding and non-binding referendums. If it were to be taken into account in § 56 of the Constitution, it could therefore rather be interpreted as binding. But I repeat, it does not regulate local referendums. From this, I conclude that there is no one thing to interpret. A separate issue really arises when we see that we have a public survey in the Local Government Organisation Act today. If there is a non-binding referendum, I wonder what the difference is between a non-binding referendum and a popular poll. This difference is getting very small. In this sense, if the referendum is to be interpreted, it could rather be binding. But once again, there are very different opinions here. The third and very fundamental question is whether it is sufficient to include one word in the Local Government Organisation Act in order to establish a local referendum, as the draft has done. Paragraph 2 (2) (2) of the current Local Government Organisation Act reads as follows: "Equipment is carried out through democratically formed representative and authority bodies, as well as through a public survey or a public initiative on local life issues. "The draft proposal is to add one word: 'vote'. This is also clearly stated in the position of the Government of the Republic that this is not enough. This is obviously not enough. The Chancellor of Justice, in his same letter to the Municipality of Saaremaa, has also stated that according to § 160 of the Constitution, the organisation of the local government, that is to say, the basis for its operation, must be laid down by law, the exercise of the local government by a local referendum is one of the fundamental principles of its operation, the municipality and the city cannot create the legal frameworks necessary for the organisation of a local referendum independently from the State. So obviously, it requires a much more thorough and broader approach at the level of the law, not just a single word in the Local Government Organisation Act. This is a very unambiguous and clear position. Let us imagine a situation where, simply by approving this draft, we are setting out a referendum that is even binding. So what are 79 different times? It's gonna be a huge mess and a huge mess. So obviously this would require a much more comprehensive framework and its creation at the level of the law, not to leave the local government itself to organise what are the consequences, etc. That is a very clear position. The fourth fundamental remark on my part is whether it is needed or not. Indeed, I admit that this is a bit political and such a fundamental issue. One very important point of view is that I believe that all ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber agree that the Estonian regime still dominates representative democracy over direct democracy. Representative democracy dominates direct democracy. This is due to the meaning of the Constitution and also to what has been written there, even in the same paragraph 56 that the highest state power is exercised by the people, but here it is immediately in two ways: the election of the Riigikogu and the referendum. The same applies to the election of local authorities [governments], which we have only recently carried out. It is clear in the day that representative democracy dominates direct democracy. So it's always a place of balance where to go with direct democracy. Today, this is a turning point in the People's Survey and People's Initiative, which are included in the Local Government Organisation Act. Whether it's enough or not, it's a forum for discussion and decision-making. In my opinion, it is rather balanced. Now, if you go to the position of the Government of the Republic, I consider it important to introduce it in a few words. To begin with, the Government of the Republic does not support this draft. I consider it very important to note that Mr Jaak White was obviously heavily influenced here when he argued that the main reason why the Government of the Republic does not support this draft is distrust of the people. This is absolutely incorrect; there is no such position in the opinion of the Government of the Republic on this draft. What are these dominant views as to why the Government of the Republic did not support this draft? They're actually a lot of what I've been referring to. But once again, since this remark about the government of the Republic was clearly unjust, I think it is necessary to read it again. First, " § 156 (1) of the Constitution states that the local government council is a council elected in free elections for four years. The PS therefore provides for a form of representative democracy to decide on local life issues. PS may not in itself rule out direct democratic instruments at local level, but the legal needs and reasons for adding additional forms must first be thoroughly analysed. "It is like the first question, the same issue of balance, the question of balance between representative and direct democracy. "Subsection 2 (2) (2) of the current KOKS refers to the local public initiative and survey as forms of direct democracy. The initiator of the draft has not convincingly demonstrated why a binding referendum needs to be included in this system and how the inclusion of a new instrument will affect the decision-making mechanism based on representative democracy." The second question, however, is whether these referendums could be binding or non-binding. Here too, the Government of the Republic is more willing to consider non-binding referendums, but, once again, given the potential balance between representative and direct democracy, it does not support. The Government of the Republic finds: "The current opportunities for the participation and involvement of residents of the local government are well balanced with the principle of representative democracy, and their change requires compelling reasoning. " Moreover, the reason why the Government of the Republic has not supported this draft is the same fact that I referred to earlier that the introduction of a local referendum would require a much wider dissertation at the level of the law, so that it can be applied and understood in the same way in all 79 municipalities across Estonia and the addition of one word is not sufficient for this purpose. Only then can the Government of the Republic assess whether it is justified or not to include these additional positions, or if this framework has been created. That is another argument why the Government of the Republic does not support this draft. The third is, once again, the fact that Estonia is dominated by representative democracy over direct democracy, and this is both a provision and a point of the Constitution. Finally, it is also the view that the revision of the Local Government Organisation Act has been in progress for some time and, within the framework of this revision, this issue has also been dealt with, a referendum as such. Some of the members of the Commission have rather supported a non-binding referendum. After the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Olivia Taltud made such a clarification as to the terminology that the KOKS expert committee's minutes had erroneously entered the word 'vote' when talking about a non-binding vote. I understand if you believe this view of Olivia Tallus, and I think we have no reason not to believe it, that in fact, it was probably people's polls, not referendums. One clear argument is to analyse this draft and the views expressed both in this Chamber and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs within the framework of this same revision of the COKS. In the spring of next year, this KOKS review should probably reach this hall on the legal level. This is certainly one of the possible points of discussion if this draft is not found before it is adopted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I think, to the surprise of the initiator of the draft, made the following procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 26 October. The decision was consensual. Secondly, propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped. The decision was consensual. Thirdly, appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the representative of the lead committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U92	Riho Breivel would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U93	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, You, Toomas, are the representative of the government party, and you are also the head of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who is in a very high position. Knowing you for years, maybe dozens of years, I know you're always very reasonable in your decisions. But I still want to ask you the same question about the maturity of Estonian society. You're saying that the government representative didn't point it out, but he pointed out that it's in the protocol that our society isn't as mature as Switzerland. Is it also your view that Estonian society is not as mature as other societies are?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U94	Thank you. Looking at the development and history of a democratic society, we can clearly see that our story is considerably shorter than that of Switzerland and a number of European Union countries, which you have given today, as a lot of examples. In this sense, we cannot deny that the country in which we were forced to be for decades clearly did not allow the development of democracy to the extent that it did not exist in those countries where there has not been such an occupation. So obviously this period has been shorter. Secondly, I would not be so resolute that Estonian society is not mature. I will say once again that this is certainly not the main argument in my opinion. Once again, the fact that the Government of the Republic does not trust the people is absolutely wrong. That is not the question. The main issue is, however, that representative democracy dominates direct democracy in Estonia, and that is due to the Constitution. If we want to turn this wheel quite the other way around, we really need to get to the amendment of the constitution at one point. In that case, we can make such a paradigm change. The second thing is what Mr. Jaak White said. Thanks for doing this homework, I didn't have an overview. We must admit that this possibility existed in 1993-1999. Mr. Jaak White answered from here on the remote that there are no good examples to give. Apparently, it couldn't be used at all. So that's one point too. We should rather analyze why he didn't work first. It is, of course, possible that in 22 years there has been such a big change in our own development, and so on, this is one possibility. But I think maybe the main reason is something else. Really, I don't know. But it's worth analysing why this opportunity wasn't taken. At least Mr. Jaak White's wording was that there were no good examples. Maybe used somewhere, but somehow there are no good examples. Neither one nor the other really supports this bill either. We should assess what has happened in the meantime, or rather assess why this institution was not used at the time. But whether Estonian society is mature in my opinion is certainly not the main argument why this bill should not be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U95	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U96	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a very simple question. You first read out the participants in the Commission's meeting. To my great surprise, maybe you can explain it to the government was a representative of the Ministry of Finance. Are such constitutional or legal issues really dealt with by the Ministry of Finance? By my logic, it could be the Ministry of Justice or something. Why was it like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U97	Thank you, dear questioner. No, there is no contradiction here. In fact, the organisation of the local government belongs to the Ministry of Finance. I will also specify the title of this person: Legal Adviser to the Regional Administrative Policy Department. So, actually, this is the area of government of the Ministry of Finance, the organization of the local government. In this sense, it makes perfect sense, there is no contradiction here. Olivia Taltud is undoubtedly, once again, a very competent and very competent official. The government's position was very clear and clear. This is the government of the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U98	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U99	Thank you for the opportunity to ask or comment! The issue at issue here is whether the government has expressed its view on whether the Estonian society is mature or not, and whether this maturity was the main reason for opposing the draft. I'm a humanitarian scientist, and I have a weakness for quotations. I quote from the protocol from the representative of the government: "Switzerland and the Saks [a] countries are often set as examples with a very long-standing experience of democracy, and the maturity of Estonian society is not yet quite the same. In Estonia, with binding results, a referendum/people's initiative can also bring opportunities for demagogic exploitation of local government residents in the interests of political struggle. This is the main reason why the Government of the Republic did not support the draft (400 SE). " I also have a question: would you be willing to correct your claim that my claim on maturity was purely political?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U100	Thank you, dear questioner. I would now also stress that I am not quite the same. You just said it yourself. I think we have to agree that this is not quite the same as Switzerland, looking at the history we come from. So I see no reason to contradict my claim in the slightest. I think you'll agree. You said you weren't the equivalent, you quoted that position of the representative of the Government of the Republic. I recognise that the maturity of democracy is not the same as in Switzerland. But that is not the main reason why the Government of the Republic did not support this draft. Once again, this same issue of balance... [[Jaak White comments from the hall.]] Everyone has the right to stick to their own position, but I have understood from the point of view of the Government of the Republic that it is rather the same balance issue here. Secondly, there is also the question of the law. Take, for example, the referendum that follows from § 56 of the Constitution. That is why we actually have a referendum law. This § 56 regulates the so-called referendum. In fact, perhaps the extreme version is even that if this hall supports a basically binding local referendum, it would perhaps require a local referendum law. That, too, is a point. Option B is indeed a more detailed regulation of the Local Government Organisation Act. But one word is obviously inadequate. This too is clearly set out in the position of the Government of the Republic. So these arguments can't really be ranked by the percentages, it's a set. Once again, there was no real antagonism in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We recognise that this issue is debatable and that is why the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was different from that of the Government of the Republic. I think you could appreciate it and acknowledge that we have the courage to decide differently. But how and how it goes on here I don't want to give out any mixers. There's a whole series of things you should consider. In my opinion, it would be most logical, indeed, to continue this discussion within the framework of this same review of KOKS and to justify these views and arguments and to consider whether it would be reasonable to include it there or not. If added, of course, by laying down this framework at the level of the law, because if it is so important to decide and regulate 79 municipalities themselves, how and how, it will be a mess.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U101	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate became very interesting, namely on the subject of "mature or immature." Imagine a situation where the University of Tartu lets a doctor, a surgeon, out of its doors. Is he ripe? Yeah, he learned the trade, he's got everything he needs. He's ripe. And then they tell him we don't have an OR for you, see, here's the kitchen table, right, and the bread knife, start working on it. I mean, don't get confused. The people are ripe, but in order for them to be able to prove their maturity, it is necessary to create a system in which this maturity is feasible. This means that the idea of a popular poll in itself is very interesting and should be used. But are you prepared for practical situations? For example, some song choir society in Pelgulinna initiates a folk survey on the subject of building a song square in Pelgulinna. I'm sure you can find people to support any idea. They collect signatures, then a vote will be held and a decision will be taken that yes, was binding voting and we will build. This requires a change in the overall planning, a project to be commissioned, all stages of the detailed planning must be completed, money must be recovered from the city's budget and all public procurements, such as order and court, must be carried out for this purpose. It means the idea may be beautiful and good, but it doesn't work economically. It is not because it does not work because it is not possible, but because it is not intended to do the details that one or the other structure is going to do in order for it to happen. This is such an economic example. Let us take a political example. I'm simplifying the situation. Suppose there are two political forces in municipal elections, one receives 60% support, the other receives 40% support. The programs are different. The one who got the majority is going to carry out his program. In this 40% support group, they just find a group of initiators, they conduct a survey. It is not a vote; those who are interested in this matter take part in it. This means that within one group, which is already a minority, there is an even smaller group, supported by an even smaller group, and it adopts a binding decision that is mandatory for this 60% majority. This situation is completely absurd. This means that the referendum is interesting in itself [the idea], it is worth developing, but it requires a very effective, very effective mechanism to support it and avoid any foolishness. That's the only way. So the idea of this bill, of course, is to support it, but how to proceed with it without breaking down the whole mechanism, I personally apologize, Jaak! I can't imagine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U103	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U104	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It has been discussed whether it is really worth asking people's opinions and conducting these referendums at local level and whether they should be binding. Let's look at Section 2 of the COKS. Paragraph 2 (1) of that provision clearly sets out the concept of municipality and how power is exercised in the municipality. It clearly states that the local government must exercise this power according to the needs and interests of the people. After all, this means that the municipality or city government must be guided by the interests and wishes of the population. And how else would this interest and the desire to know, if not by means of interviews? During the summer, I traveled throughout Estonia, all counties, in connection with the presidential elections. There were more than 50 meetings with the people, and one cross-cutting topic at all these meetings was direct democracy: the popular initiative, the direct election of the President. I can safely say that at least 90% of those who attended these meetings supported this idea. According to the polls, we know that 70-80% of our society supports it. The question here is not that representative democracy and direct democracy are in any way opposed. On the contrary, they complement each other. There is no contradiction here. All the more so, Article 1 of our Constitution also states that the highest authority in the country is the nation. If people are not asked, if only representative democracy is put behind them, democracy, as such, will not quite finally be realised. Just as the previous speaker pointed out here, when there is an election, one force gets 60%, the other 40%, and then a referendum and then a referendum is held, and that 60% of the people who have won the election against any position, the people who support something else, building something or anything that wasn't in the programme of the winning party, that is, in fact, democracy. When people vote, they do not give 100% approval to promises made by a political party or local electoral union, but they are much wider. If the people decide now, everyone can participate, everyone can vote against, but if the people decide so, that is precisely what is democratic. We had a popular initiative in our own time, the election of the President, as provided for in the Constitution. Estonia was one of the most democratic countries in the world, according to the Constitution, until President Päts' turn of power. Unfortunately, this right was abolished, and this right was not returned at the time of Estonia's regaining independence. At the beginning, however, we had the opportunity to hold local referendums or votes, polls. This too was lost in 1999. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U105	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U106	There are doubts here as to whether this is necessary and meaningful and whether these elections are already not enough. I can give you a very excellent example of my own hometown, which is now no longer a city, which is apart from the administrative reform parish. But in the context of the administrative reform, a referendum, a poll or what to call it. It is not binding according to the current current COKS. The question was whether you would like to join the municipalities around Saue: Kernu, Saue, Nissi municipality. 75% of the inhabitants of Saue replied: no, they do not. 75% is such a large majority that it cannot be called into question. It is quite clear what the wishes of the people are, as Section 2 of the COKS states: what are the needs, interests and desires of the people? Accordingly, the outcome of this referendum should have been taken into account. But take a finger. Powered by the Fatherland and Reform Party. Although one of the electoral promises of the Reform Party was to do the will of the people and not to join them, when the elections had just been away, the local elections, however, were simply overridden and ignored by the will of the people. This is one very good example, in my opinion, of how it is necessary to ask the local people for opinions, views, wishes and how the local government must take them into account. Otherwise, we will simply play democracy, demarker it, but it does not have real substance. I, too, am entirely of that opinion, as the Chancellor of Justice pointed out, that the introduction of a binding referendum in KOKS does not require a constitutional amendment, but the Constitution also provides an opportunity to do so. This must be § 56, which says that the people exercise their power through elections and voting. That's quite enough. The Constitution does not distinguish whether it is at national or local level. If we take this change into COKS and make it binding, that's enough, there's no contradiction. Naturally, the Estonian people are prepared and smart enough to decide their own affairs. We have also been able to create our own country...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U107	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U108	...after 50 years of occupation. How, then, are we not able to decide such matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U109	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 400. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U110	Our third item is the draft law amending the Youth Work Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 411. The report is made by the initiators of Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U111	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Youth Work Act before us, 411 SE, is born of concern about what happens to children's activities, so that children are not taken away from their beloved circles and trainings, where they are used to going or where they want to go. We know that Estonia has implemented further support from the state since 2017 to offer as many children as possible the opportunity to find a suitable circle of interest, to participate in the education of interest. For this purpose, the State provided an additional EUR 15 million from 2017. If we look at all the money that local governments and families put into action themselves, we see that EUR 15 million is actually rather a small amount. In various estimates, it is certainly less than 10%, perhaps even 5% of all the money that is being invested in this area. But the effect that this additional state funding has brought is significant. While 48% of children aged 7 to 19 were engaged in recreational activities in Estonia before this measure was launched, this measure brought 30,000 more children into the activities during the first years when it was active. Growth of the circuma 30%. Perhaps by considering how many children were able to gain additional access to recreational education, we can see that this money was used very effectively. It is all the more sad that the state, in the form of a budget presented by the government, has decided to act word-writingly towards children who would like to go to their favourite circles or practice, word-writing towards their families, but also to local authorities who have been promised, not to mention the organisers of an interest education, tutors, service providers involved and who have created new opportunities and places for interest in education and activities. In addition to being important for children to develop their abilities, many experts, both in the field of education and in the mental health of children, have pointed out the importance of the child's ability to participate in recreational education and activities at present. In this situation, where we can see that the problems of mental health due to the corona crisis and related constraints and isolation have had the greatest impact on the mental health of children and young people, it is very important to help them to maintain this health or even to recover from the mental health problems that this crisis has brought with it. It is precisely participation in recreational education and activities that would help. This should no longer be cut off at the expense of children's opportunities. That is why the Social Democrats have presented this bill. The idea is that next year, the amount of public funds allocated to activities of interest should not be reduced. This does not impose an obligation on the State to increase these amounts, although it would also be elementary if it were to accompany the increase in the cost of living, so that these resources would increase at least by the increase in the cost of living. After all, we can see that these instruments have helped in a very effective way to create more opportunities for children to be interested in. The state should at least be able to keep a word. How else could both our citizens and local authorities, which the state would like to view as good partners, have confidence in any further offer of cooperation offered at national political level, whether it be a cultural policy or any other initiative that is welcome in itself? But if there is no confidence that it is longer-term, that this agreement is not, then it is hardly easy and effective to enforce together with its partners. That is why there is a bill before you that would place an obligation not to reduce the number of money that the country has so far allocated in the budget. I ask you very much to support this, because the cheapening of children, especially in today's situation, is certainly a very wrong step on the part of the country for the reasons already described. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U112	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good Indrek! As you said, this very necessary measure and support in the budget for next year will be reduced by EUR 4 million. Perhaps you will describe to the members of the Riigikogu and to the entire Estonian people what will happen if this very necessary support is reduced by 4 million euros next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U114	We can only guess what will happen. After all, feedback has been somewhat different, depending probably on the political power in power in the local government until the local elections. The wish of coalition parties to see things in a more optimistic light has probably been somewhat greater than in other political forces, because at local level we know that not everyone is always involved in party membership. Very many have applied for election alliances. But I certainly dare to predict that many municipalities will reduce the resources that have so far gone to support the activities of interest, most likely precisely those that have come from the state. Since we know that this measure has been designed to level out, in terms of opportunities, precisely those restrictions which, when it comes to engaging in activities of interest, are one of those restrictions, where the organisation of activities of interest is always more costly and more complicated, then in proportion, rural governments are also hit harder by this cut in money, because they actually received significantly more money per child than large density and large municipalities where it is easier and cheaper to organise activities of interest. We will see the real result when the new year's budgets start to come together. Now the elections are over and the pressure on local authorities to say that life is a flower, somewhat decreasing. The local election isn't for another four years. All those people who have been sitting at the municipal table are certainly very practically imagining it. Anyone who has not sat may also think about the situation where the local government council is discussing. The Committee on Education and Culture, for example, is trying to say that, despite the fact that the state took EUR 300000 out of the budget's interest funds, now that the local government's revenue has increased somewhat, it should certainly find additional money to support interest activities in particular. Their answer is the Committee on Economic Affairs, which says: "Listen, road construction has become so much more expensive, we have been talking for 30 years about some objects that need to be repaired, and we still have not been able to do so. Why should we take this money away from investments when the state took that money away from the activities of interest?" It is a perfectly logical result that recreational activities and children suffer to a greater or lesser extent because the state has given a signal: nothing is wrong, this money can be reduced. We will see it from the budgets if we do not adopt this law. I very much hope that we will adopt this law and that budgets will not be reduced. But I guess life will show you what's gonna happen. If we take it in a purely proportionate manner, the money that goes to local governments to support the activities of interest is 14.25 million. If we take 4 million out of it and we know that this 14.25 million has gained 30,000 more on recreational and recreational activities, we can predict that the circa 10,000 on recreational and recreational activities is under threat. Perhaps we are talking financially about 10,000 children who may not be able to make their favorite round or practice next year or the next year. So let us consider whether this 4 million is worth it so that thousands of children are no longer able to deal with what is important for the development of their abilities and particularly important for their mental and physical health, because many of these areas of interest education and interest are an important place for children where they can further develop their mobility habits [acquire] and move further. Is it worth it? I say definitely not. I would therefore like to be sure to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U115	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U116	Dear Indrek Saar! You yourself were the Minister of Culture when an agreement was reached, a substantive and financial agreement at government level. It dealt with the contribution of both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture and created this system, essentially from which money was now withdrawn. My question is whether the current government has offered any more effective alternative. If you take [the money] out of somewhere, you're cutting a relatively small amount in proportion to such an important place, but it's very important for this area, then you're also going to have to offer some kind of alternative. Does this alternative make sense to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U117	No, I don't understand the alternative. These stories have been oral and mural in the course of these discussions, but in reality, no alternative has been introduced to the Riigikogu. The overwhelming argument has been that, since the local authorities' revenues are increasing anyway, let them take it from there. There has been no other substantive alternative. A good colleague here referred to cooperation between the two ministries. The minister we used to do this with in the government is in Jürgen Ligi's hall right now. It is the Ministry of Education who is responsible for the natural education of interest, and that is why it was the Ministry of Education who started implementing this programme. Rather, the Ministry of Culture had the initiative to develop. But I think this is an area that is very directly concerned with the responsibilities of both ministries. When we talk about the Ministry of Culture... (There are voices outside the hall.) Are we gonna have that party out there first, and then we're gonna keep going?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U118	Outside the hall. I can't go in there right now to scold them. Try to speak up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U119	I can try. But the role of the Minister of Culture and the Ministry of Culture should certainly be to draw attention to what this means in the long term to the development prospects of our culture and to the follow-up that should carry this culture forward. I am very sad that, as in many other matters, we do not know much about the Minister of Culture on this issue. It would be nice if we still had the Minister of Culture in the Republic of Estonia, as the field has pointed out in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U120	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Indrek! It seems to me that we are talking very much about money and very little about the impact on children and young people in terms of recreational education and activities. During the summer, the Education Forum discussed in greater detail the impact of interest activities on the development of children's and young people's general competences, in particular on competences such as value competence, social competence, communication competences. This is all that maybe a school should provide, formal education, but not always. What is happening outside of school has a major impact on personality development, in addition to the mental health that you spoke about in your presentation. Perhaps you could give some thought to my question about whether we are creating enough opportunities for young people and children to develop their general competences or whether there is still an indispensable role in this interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U122	In the case of recreational education and activities, we know, there are broadly two options: one at the school and the other outside the school. They both have their pros and their cons. However, it has been stressed that what is happening outside school is very important from the point of view of social skills. Perhaps for children and young people to develop their social skills, it is good to try these skills in different environments, in different genders, under the hands of different tutors. It has often happened that if, for one reason or another, a child has remained at school for some reason or is even a school bullying case, when he or she goes out of school or to another supervisor, to another environment, this often helps to balance it and perhaps to overcome even the problems he or she has encountered in the school environment. For this reason, too, recreational education and activities play a very important role. Consider how many people there are when they look back at their youth and are asked what helped them to get through this period or how they are so successful in their field, or what has been the guiding principle that they still remember at a difficult moment in life, often reminds of their first coaches, dance guides, drama guides, leaders in different fields. Robotics has not been dealt with in Estonia for so long, so those who remember the supervisor of the robotics circle are not very much at the moment, but I am sure that in the future they will also be remembered or the instructors of the technical circle. There are certainly similar examples. It plays a vital role in personality development, and it can be a lifesaving, life-changing experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U123	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U124	Good waitress! I have to say, it's really depressing to hear this story. You are seriously offering to fix a specific budget line in the state budget for a few million. You are seriously talking about decisions that change the child's life. But I would turn to structural policy. Try to answer the question. This is about the $4 million you're fighting for at $13 billion. Whose activity is it essentially: is it central or self-governing? How much money do local governments allocate to this activity? Put the scales in place: who is actually running this thing, and how much money does he put in it compared to your 4 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U125	Thank you, my good colleague. It's a great question that shows that you weren't in the hall at the beginning of my presentation, or at least you weren't listening to what I said. When we intervene halfway through the discussion, it always seems that some aspects have been too little addressed. I basically started my presentation on the fact that, according to various estimates, the amount of money put together by local authorities and put by families themselves into recreational and recreational activities is certainly less than 10% of the state's support. There has been talk of 5 to 10%, which the 15 million that the state is contributing to, of all the money that municipalities and parents are putting into recreational education and recreational activities anyway. But the more it's good to compare how much effect it's had. Excuse me, fellow Members, who have listened from the start, I must tell my good old colleague, with whom we once took this measure, the things that were not mentioned at the time. The greater the effect, in fact, is precisely that. This is 5% or a maximum of 10% of the money that will be put into action and has increased the provision of recreational and recreational education by 30%. 30%! From 48%, children's coverage increased to 63%. Taking away this money is also particularly foolish from a purely effective point of view. That, after all, could be appreciated by my colleague Ligi. Of course, there are different examples of activities of interest, as well as in sport. I am not saying that all the interests and hobbies that a person has and has taken from his childhood are always useful. Some of them can also be harmful. But in general, we want supervisors to do it in a quality manner. The point of this measure is that what supervisors offer to children is both a high-quality exercise and a high-quality knowledge of how to apply these skills in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U126	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Indrek! In general, there are two main pillars on which the state still has to rely. One is defence, the other is education. Without education, without youth education, the future will be so narrow that there is no point in protecting or fighting for anything. Here, of course, is the same question that in the state budget, I think it should still be the case that youth money can no longer be cut. Maybe, what do you think, you should even take a broader approach to this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U128	I very much agree with the fact that, as far as recreational education and recreational activities are concerned, this issue... But we can comfort ourselves that this is not only Estonia's concern; in fact, more and more it has been recognised at European level that if we look at how important a role in the development of personality really is in the education and activities of interest, that is to say, this additional education that can be obtained outside of school, we will see that we have not dealt with it most systematically. When Estonia was President-in-Office of the Council of Europe, I had the opportunity to get better acquainted with these issues as a minister. It was also recognised at European level that if we look at sport, for example, purely, Europe is known to have one third more coaches than teachers. Yet, most of these coaches have no invitation whatsoever. While we think of it as parents, we assume that when a child goes to work out, we give it to a person who, in addition to having some understanding of human body structure and how muscles work, has some kind of pedagogical qualities. But in order to move forward in this quality, a systemic approach is needed. This part of the country has been designed to build this systemic approach gradually. For note, of this 15 million, 500000 have been allocated to the umbrella organisations of lobbyists and educators or organisers precisely to promote this aspect of quality. This is so that we can achieve as much training as possible and can also assess the quality that supervisors can offer to children in this area, from the most basic, introduction to pedagogy, to specific development and training in their field.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U129	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I hope that with the same enthusiasm you will also stand for supporting children's interest education in the coalition negotiations that started in Tallinn, where the real heart of this problem lies. This year, the state has provided more than 1.2 million euros of interest education support to Tallinn. For example, private interest schools only receive an amount of 160000, while private interest schools have 20,000 children according to the EHIS and around 10,000 children in municipal interest schools in the city. However, municipal interest schools in Tallinn are supported with 11 million euros, a little more, private interest schools have, say, the budget of 200,000, but it is not used. What are you doing in Tallinn to ensure that this money reaches all children in the same way, regardless of the kind of community school they attend?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U131	Yes, I very much agree that the distinction must not be made according to ownership, but must be made according to content. But from time to time, they're kind of addicted to each other. It may be easier for local governments to control quality by having these people on their payroll in order to know what their preparation is. But I am not saying that this is the case in Tallinn. I'm not saying it is. But you started with the core of the problem in Tallinn. No, it's not. The problem with this measure is not in Tallinn. You see, in large municipalities, especially in Tallinn, the child is usually guaranteed access, choice and the opportunity to look for the quality they want, because in Tallinn there is just so much diversity in nature. The problem is more precisely in those areas where there is dispersal. Let's look at this money cut to show us what we agreed on in order to balance these opportunities and give children as equal opportunities as possible, even though we understand that they will never be quite equal. For example, you mentioned that Tallinn will receive 1.2 million, I think it was, this year, state support. I can't remember the number of children in Tallinn by heart, but we all know the number of inhabitants, it's way over 400,000. On the other hand, Saaremaa, where 30,000 people live, receives over half a million. If you now put these proportions together, you will see for whom this additional measure is vital and for whom it is also good that it exists. Certainly, in order to build this quality, it is very, very important for all municipalities to create more opportunities and to see where there are children with special needs, where there are social problems, so as to be sure that they can access these activities as easily as possible. But more importantly, it is precisely for rural areas where organising this whole thing is more costly and more complicated. Therefore, the core is not Tallinn, the core is the availability and diversity of activities of interest, and unfortunately it tends to speak to the detriment of rural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U132	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a technical question. Twice, the draft provides that the aid may not be less than the amount of aid granted in the previous financial year. If it is numerically the same as last year, it is not smaller and should meet this condition. However, we do not live without inflation, and if it has been some 3% or 5% during the year, then it is clear that the value of this particular amount is lower. Comment, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U134	As I said before, ideally, this amount should increase at least by the cost of living, but the idea of this bill is still to avoid the worst. Worst of all, the state is acting in a word-breaking manner with regard to children, their families, local authorities and the organisers of the activities of interest, and simply taking away part of the money. Whatever political obsession it is that it is absolutely necessary to cut down, and precisely at the expense of those who are currently the most vulnerable. But, of course, I would like to see us discussing how much more money we need to get to 80% instead of 63% of children covered. I would very much like us to discuss it this way, and not only by the cost of living, then perhaps we could add these tools and think about how to do it even more wisely and effectively to move forward faster with the quality side.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U135	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Indrek! I asked about the same subject that Viktoria has already asked about, about these so-called compensatory mechanisms. If we now withdraw money from recreational activities and recreational education, will we offer children and young people something to replace? I'd like to ask you for your assessment of what I think is being offered in place of the cultural pack program. This is what was said in the spring when we were discussing the country's budget strategy here, so don't worry, don't panic, children will not be left without cultural experience. We know very well that the culture we have experienced is very often a source of choice or of interest. Do you think that the compensation mechanism that the country currently offers is a much-awaited and very large-aplomb start-up, 1 million euros for all of Estonia, for all of Estonia's children, is this compensation mechanism that we could be satisfied with?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U137	No EUR 1 million is better than EUR 0. But if you divide it purely arithmetically between the number of schoolchildren, I think we're gonna get seven euros. It's like with that big pension increase they did here for one year. A big pension increase was promised, and then the pensioners asked why you mocked us. But that's the beginning of it. I don't know how it's going to be implemented. As I said before when I answered Viktoria, there is no minister to ask what the plan is. But in itself, it's a good idea. My concern in this regard is that if it settles in a context where you first take away from children to go to the circle of interest, sing, dance, theatre, or try to make a movie, 4 million away, or you take away four chances and give one, giving the opportunity to go to see how others do, it will act as a completely wrong signal: do not do it yourself, go see how others do it. Although, of course, you have to look at it, you learn a lot from it, and it's very important. But as a signal to the state, it's completely absurd. That must be a comfort to very few children and parents. The other thing that I think has gone completely wrong about this thing. I may be wrong, but I think it was the Minister for Finance, yes, who answered my question on this at first reading of the budget. I guess. In any case, it was a representative of the government. I'm so sorry I can't remember right now. But the claim was that it was meant to be long-term, this cultural money, that's 1 million. What reason do children, their families, cultural organisers and local authorities have to believe that if the 15 million, which was meant to be long-term and were written into the national budget strategy, were the vast majority of those involved never to have dreamed that someone would cut it, the cut would be cut at the earliest opportunity, so that the money for this cultural package would be different? The next political idea, known to us, is that we have a rotation in governments and coalitions, and then someone thinks that no, this money has gone to the wrong place now, or that for some reason it is right here that we have to show how good we are at pursuing budgetary discipline. It is still very difficult to rebuild this trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U138	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U139	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I can confirm, in the example of Viljandi County, that the city of Viljandi will no doubt find and compensate for this money, and the children may not be deprived of the opportunity of an interest education, but in three municipalities the maximum loss is 100,000. This is precisely what is meant for those regions where there are problems and where it is necessary to be able to travel to the city of Viljandi, for example, which is very well covered by the education of interest. The previous city councils have all contributed to making sure that the children have the opportunity. This claim that additional resources will be provided to the municipalities is true, but there will be many other tasks for the municipalities. Only yesterday, when I was in contact with social workers from all over Estonia, was it said that there were many tasks that would be additional, to the point of saying: "You also have the opportunity to invest more in nursing homes, because you will have additional resources. " Have you received similar feedback?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U140	Yes, unfortunately, a number of local government leaders made it clear before the elections, and I know that many of them continue with power, so that they do not see how they can replace all this money in the budget. Again, I cannot say this with certainty until all coalitions have been formed and the local governments have actually not started to make budgets. But one thing is clear: we were just talking about actually contributing money to this area. We are talking now that we even have only 63% of children involved in this 15 million increase. Ideal could be that it's 90 plus percent. Surely there are some percentage of children who cannot be forced to do so and do not have to force them to do so. But the vast majority of children could still gain this extracurricular experience in developing their abilities, developing their social skills. If we have only reached 63% after this additional measure, we should find more resources there. Local authorities have been very good and have tried to contribute to this area. If the state reduces money, there will inevitably be an opportunity to increase this amount or to keep it at a significantly lower level. We can theoretically think of all sorts of things, that local authorities can level out all 4 million, but it also comes at the expense of something. Hopefully, not at the expense of the most critical things, but it'll definitely come when it's evened out, at the expense of something. Perhaps because of this, some children will fail to do another thing that the local government would otherwise have been able to offer to this child.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U141	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U142	Thank you. In this sense, I hold a different view, esteemed waitress, that there are also more children in Tallinn, and if a city of nearly 30,000 children supports only 10,000 children and 20,000 do not support them, that is a problem because there is no such drastic difference in other municipalities, the municipalities do not know the difference except in Tallinn. But I'm asking your opinion. What do you think is better for this support, whether this support should go to the municipality and then the municipality will decide which children it supports and how it supports, or whether this support could, for example, as a bounty, move with the child, that the child chooses and takes this support there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U143	Thank you. After all, there have been years of talk about this additional support for recreational education. The first minister I remember in this house even reading the bill was perhaps the first reading, or I don't know if he reached the first reading, in any case the bill reached this house, at that time, in 2007-2008, Laine Jänes, was the later Randjärv who, as Minister of Culture, came with the support of this interest. Then they wanted to go through the so-called bounty system. But it ran down, and that wasn't an agreement. When we reached this agreement by concluding the 2015 coalition agreement, and in 2015-2016 we began to negotiate with the organisers of activities, youth associations and local authorities, how best to do this, we reached a fairly broad consensus on how we could solve the most acute problem. This is a problem of availability and diversity, so that the child has a choice. Not all children go to basketball practice, although I like basketball very much, not all children are absolutely fascinated by the folk dance circle, even though the folk dance is very close to my heart. But they must have some kind of elementary choice. This choice is once again much more difficult to secure in scattered settlements than in a large city. That is why I disagree on the core of this problem. This measure is designed to ensure that, although we are ultimately not quite equal to others, we could have a level playing field. In particular, we want these equal opportunities for children to be created, although our lives are turning and lives are not exactly the same, but opportunities could be as equal as possible. In this case, we are talking about activities of interest. It was designed, point one, to create a level playing field and is therefore a very regional policy measure. It really supports rural areas to a much greater extent per child than urban areas in order to balance the differences in opportunities, which have been repeatedly highlighted here today. Point two, we do not prescribe from the ministry level to the local government what their traditions should be, what their practices should be and what they should see on the ground, where there is the greatest deficit. This deficit may be because it is not possible to hire a supervisor, because for the money you can offer a supervisor's salary, you cannot get a supervisor. There may be a shortage of equipment if you really wanted to do a technology circle, because the guys would be happy to pick on some kind of technical field, they're not ready to go to the theater circle or even athletics practice. The deficit may be that children do not have equipment, starting from the fact that they do not have shoes on to exercise. The deficit may be a transport problem, which is very acute in the country. Look at Estonia's public transport now. The villages are able to secure the school lines, but what happens in public transport outside the morning and evening of the school bus [journey time] is a disaster. It wants a lot of additional resources so that young people can go somewhere in their interest after school, especially if this circle of interest is not in the municipality where they go to school every day. This is.. Helmen just gave an example of.. very often this case. The older the child, the more he may have the need. It is the local government that is able to see where there is the biggest deficit on the ground and where resources need to be directed, not that important officials come from Tallinn and say that you are now putting everyone in the same way. In addition, a small nuance: a bounty for each child. Everyone gets equal money. But notice that all children have different opportunities. That means that some kids go to the third or fourth round for this money, but some kids don't get there for that little money. This is probably not the most efficient use of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U144	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U145	Thank you. Activities of interest and education of interest are, in general, a very clear cultural issue, because it creates a basis for and a basis for both national culture and the highest culture, without which it would, unfortunately, fade away. In this respect, it is extremely incomprehensible that the government does not understand this and reduces these subsidies and money. But I want to ask you about music schools. Music schools are also subject to an interest education, yet there are professional teachers who provide professional education, which is the basis for further study at the Music Academy and so on. They too suffer from a reduction in the government's money, because local governments maintain music schools at different levels. What do you think of this idea when music schools move from an interest education to a wider education system?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U146	Yeah, it's been a subject for a lot of years. Our music education has been very good over the years. We see the same in the network of problems that I described here earlier, as regards our awareness of the role of the teacher of interest education, whether he is the supervisor of the drama circle, violin teacher or technical circle supervisor, how he actually plays a role in developing the child's abilities and social skills, how he can develop himself as a teacher and, at the same time, as a specialist in one field, and how he can be motivated to do so and what it would require of the community and the state. It is clear that the salaries that we have paid to supervisors for years and which have often been considered inevitable are not, in fact, sufficient to systematically improve quality. We see that in very many places, when a person who has worked as a mentor for 30 to 40 years retires, there is no one left to replace, because no one is willing to do a job for EUR 600 to 700, where we assume that a person is, first, a top professional in his field and, secondly, a teacher. That's a problem. The structure in which music schools, for example, carry out their work can be argued long and hard. But I hope, and by creating this measure, it was also one of the hopes that precisely this money of the so-called quality side, which goes to these sectoral umbrella organisations, will help consciously move this debate forward and find the agreements that are best for really ensuring this quality and post-growth. Of course, if we withdraw money from this area, it will not help to develop quality further, certainly not. As I said before, this area, I think, could contribute somewhat more. But today we're talking about how to prevent the worst.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U147	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U148	Thank you, Vice President. Good billwriter! There is no doubt that you are very familiar with the subject area and availability in Tallinn and somewhere else in Estonia can mean radically different things. But precisely because you are very good at the subject, I have a question. On at least two occasions, you directed an arrow of criticism towards the Minister of Culture or the Ministry of Culture. For this reason, please specify in which ministry this is actually the budget line that we have been discussing for quite some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U149	Thank you! I have to say correctly, of course, that this is a field of the Ministry of Education. Of course, above all, the Minister of Education is responsible for this cut. However, it cannot be omitted that, when we look at how this measure was originally created, everyone understood that recreational education and recreational activities are an area that actually affects both ministries. Of course, you can take such a silo attitude and say that it is the responsibility of another minister, I have nothing to say here. But let's think about what field all the circle supervisors in the field of culture are working on about 40% of the funding for this support measure goes there and even more, I think, and sports circle supervisors, where 30% of this support money goes to the circuit. In the vast majority of cases, they are very directly involved in the Ministry of Culture's administration. This is the post-growth on which our culture and sport will be further developed in the future. It should therefore be a matter for all ministers, but especially for the Minister of Culture to point out in the government that such cuts must not be made if we care about what we have declared, among other things, in the preamble to our constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U150	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Indrek! That was before the big summer when the government started cutting the budget. We can argue whether or not these cuts were necessary, but this is the fact that the cuts in the education sector started with the support for young people in sports and recreational education. At the same time, the government justified this cut by the fact that money had to be found for the very expected wage increase of teachers. Indrek, what is it about when the government starts budget cuts at the expense of young people, and how do you appreciate that at least part of the increase in teachers' salaries comes at the expense of young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U152	I've talked to a lot of teachers about this. When we collected signatures on a petition or a public initiative to propose to the government not to cut at the expense of children, so many teachers signed it and were very offended that they would be offered a raise in wages, as if at the expense of children's activities and education of interest. I think it's wrong. If we look at what is being offered as teachers' salaries, we will see that this, too, is far from sufficient if we want to ensure that teachers succeed and we want to maintain the faith and trust of teachers that has been built up in recent years, that there is also a consensus at political level, that there is a certain level of pay that we want to achieve in the coming years, and that is the level of pay that should be kept to a minimum for long years. Perhaps it is that no teacher gets below Estonia's average salary and that the teachers' average is at least 120% of the Estonian average. Unfortunately, we see that one year has been skipped. Well, we can understand that we didn't know what kind of economic environment we were in and what wages would do in 2021. This was indeed very difficult to predict at the beginning of this crisis. Now we know that this year's wage growth has not stopped; the average wage has not even decreased, but it has increased by more than 7%. Next year's gonna grow just as much as you. And we are actually offering teachers only half of the money they should naturally receive as a minimum salary next year. I say'minimum' because, in fact, another 7% should be put in there in order to move forward in the direction agreed for the level of pay for teachers. If the whole thing that's already been roped and pulled because it's not really a wage contract, that money's still being taken at the expense of the kids, it's still extremely cynical. Something more cynical is hard to come up with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U153	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U154	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I get the impression in this Chamber that local authorities are not responsible at all for their activities. Six months ago, I was still the head of a municipality in southern Estonia. This is actually a matter of priorities. The state will provide quite large sums of money through the Equalisation Fund and the Support Fund, next year I think it will increase by over 100 million. For example, in the municipality of Elva, I know, children are even paid transport support so that they can go to Elva or Tartu interest groups. I think that all this support could be either in the Equalisation Fund or in the Support Fund, and the less badge money, the better. That's my point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U155	I accept your position, and I hope that you will not reduce the resources of your activities in the municipality of Elva, or in the municipality of Elva, and that they will rather increase in next year's budget, despite the cuts made by the state. Although I think it doesn't make life easier for the local government to find resources there. I know that in the field of Elva, thanks to additional resources from the state, several new circles have been opened up under the instruments of this measure and new opportunities have been created for children to participate in the education of interest. So the municipality of Elva is a very good municipality, especially the assistant municipality manager curating the field there, who happens to be the most famous by his last name and who dealt with it very systematically. Many Estonian municipalities have gone there to collect ideas and are actually trying to apply analogues in some cases. There has been very well-designed and very well-implemented development, namely in recreational education and recreational activities. But regardless of how this money reaches the local authorities, we can argue about it for a long time, luck on the Hill had such a classic idea that we give everyone an exact bounty, you know, as a representative of the local government in the rural area, that it does not really help to solve these problems. Because then what happens is that those who already have opportunities get a little more opportunities, and for those who don't have opportunities, practically nothing changes. You can do that, but it is not really perhaps solving this most acute problem. But regardless of how this money reaches the local authorities, it must reach them. What we are talking about now is that the state is acting in a ruthless way and taking away money from local governments that it has promised to give, agreeing that you good friends, on the ground, try to find those children who, somehow, have not yet arrived at the activities of interest, and we will give it additional money. Now, the state says you can still find these kids, but do all this with some other resources, because we need to show here that we are cutting the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U156	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U157	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is very gratifying that my colleague, Henn Põllaas, also brought to the table and to the discussion the salaries of teachers in an education of interest, true, in the example of a music school. In fact, it is known that municipalities pay salaries to those who work as teachers in recreational education and wish to catch up with wage increases in the institutions where the state pays it, also in the case of teachers in recreational education. Otherwise, people just leave. It was after this that a local government manager called and said that right now the money that they add to the funds they find to ensure that the money for recreational education is not reduced, comes at the expense of the payroll fund. They had a plan to raise their teachers' salaries, and now they are forced to raise place payments, i.e. participation fees, from January onwards. Has this information come to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U158	Some of the leaders of the municipalities, I did not say so specifically before, have said that they do not intend to replace this money because they do not imagine where and at what expense it can be done. All the other areas rightly ask you to listen, about the increase that is, we have to get involved because the cost of living has risen. We all know that in some areas it has risen exponentially, not just to inflation. Looking at the rise in energy prices, we can see that not only local authorities have the whole structure, where they have to cope with energy prices, exponentially increased. It also increases the prices of many of the services consumed by the municipality. Something's gonna cost it. If, at the end of the day, the question is whether the school house is heated and the lamp is on fire or whether we are able to provide children with recreational education, as we have done in recent years, then the head of local government has to make a choice at some point. However, this option may not be in the best interest of children. I must admit that, in this situation, I do not have any good advice for local authorities. So, what are you gonna do, shut down the school, leave someone out of pay? You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U159	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We can go to the co-report. I invite a member of the Committee on Culture, Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubitsa. Please! No, there's no request for an extension today, so there's still time for the hearing until 1:00. Before the presentation, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that there will be the election of the IPU, or Interparliamentary Union, after the sitting, so if we have an appointment at one o'clock, don't run away. Please, Viktoria!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U160	Honourable Riigikogu! My task is to report to the Committee on Culture last Tuesday, 19 October. President Aadu Must was present, of the members of the committee [were present] Helle-Moonika Helme, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Heidy Purga, Indrek Saar Eduard Odinets as alternate member, Üllar Saaremäe, Timo Suslov Margit Sutrop as alternate member, Jaak Valge, Aivar Viidik Signe Kivi as alternate member, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. Riin Tamm, Head of the Youth and Gift Policy Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Raina Loom, Head of the Legal Policy Department, were also invited. Just as today in this Chamber, Indrek Saar presented the draft law amending the Youth Work Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Even, I think, more was introduced here today to this bill and more were questions and substantive answers as well. However, briefly, he introduced the aim of the draft proposal to support young people's participation in recreational education and activities and to avoid a situation where additional support from the state could be exponentially reduced. The island added that only 63% of children will continue to be engaged in recreational activities, but the target could be 90%. Raina Loom introduced the position of the Government of the Republic now to the attention! - which does not support the draft which has been initiated. To this end, the Ministry of Education and Research, who is responsible for the field, attaches great importance to the funding of recreational education, has sought to preserve resources and has planned activities that would remove interest education from the crisis. The government's position has been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and taking into account the needs of the crisis. It has been agreed in monetary policy that the budget cannot be linked to individual issues. In this case, the education sector as a whole should be looked at. Local authorities have come to the aid of the state during the crisis in order to find additional funding in their potential reserves to finance the education of interest. The current funding scheme is institutional and it is not known whether the money for recreational education reaches children directly. Okay. In relation to the last sentence, Kristina asked about Šmigun-Vähi whether it was true that the money for recreational education had not been used by local authorities on a targeted basis. It must be noted, however, that Riin Tamm stated that the funds had not been used incorrectly. Even if they were, they were solved. Raina Loom said so much more that this topic in the ministry will be analysed and further solutions sought. Heidy Purga was curious about the feedback from local governments. Purga asked if their substantive activities had been damaged or alternatives had been found and it was confirmed that the content and quality of the model change did not suffer. Riin Tamm replied that a working group of representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has been set up and that three meetings have been held today. There have been separate meetings with local government officials who are involved in the distribution of money. Several municipalities claimed that the activities initiated could be raised to their own budget. In addition, there has been a debate on changing the existing money-sharing model. The parties have supported the change in the model as it is cumbersome and does not meet expectations. To sum up, in principle, it was said that further analysis was needed and a working group had been set up for this purpose. Indrek Saar asked whether local governments were unable to offer the range of sports, culture, technology, and diversity in three areas. Riin Tamm confirmed that it is indeed difficult in smaller regions. The proposal to organise an e-interest school has also come out, as the robotics circle cannot be conducted on the ground due to the lack of a teacher. The topic of teacher follow-up was mentioned several times. This is indeed a very difficult problem and it is dealt with not only in the context of this issue by the Committee on Culture. We have also talked repeatedly about e-opportunities. Unfortunately, in the light of this issue, this issue also had to be brought up again. Indrek Saar asked how reducing money contributes to increasing diversity. Riin Tamm replied that, firstly, it was possible to organise circles of interest in cooperation with umbrella organisations more intelligently, and secondly, nothing came up. There were a number of other issues, the protocol could be looked at more precisely, but in principle all these issues concerned either the services organised by local governments in the field of hobby education or, for example, the conservative party stressed why the linking with the state budget was not supported. Ultimately, Aadu Black proposed that Kristina Šmigun-Vähi be appointed rapporteur for the Commission, who unfortunately could not be present today during the sitting, and that is why I am here as a substitute, and it was also proposed that the draft be rejected. There were 6 people in favour of this proposal: Aadu Black, Heidy Purga, Timo Suslov, Aivar Viidik, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. The answer was 3: Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Indrek Saar and Üllar Saaremäe. There were 2: Helle-Moonika Helme and Jaak White. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-26_U161	Thank you very much. I don't see any questions. We can open negotiations. Now it is that we do not have an extension of the sitting today. Yes, since we are not going to finish the negotiations today and we are not going to get to the vote, I am not going to start the negotiations, I am going to push them to the beginning of tomorrow's sitting. However, I will do the hall call because, after the end of the sitting, we should start voting on the IPU. Ladies and gentlemen, Our agenda was interrupted due to the end of the sitting and the third item will continue tomorrow, but today the session is closed. But in addition to that, there's some information to be specified. The election of the members of the Estonian interparliamentary group of the Riigikogu begins right now and all members of the Riigikogu are invited to participate. In addition, after the end of the sitting, there will be a meeting of the Higher Education Support Group in this Chamber, convened by Margit Sutrop. But these things are carried out by other people.
