ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 6th working week Thursday session of the VI session. First, you can deliver drafts and inquiries. I don't see a wish like that. Let's do the presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U2	52 Riigikogu ambassadors signed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we are once again able to hold a debate on a key national issue. The Special Committee on State Budget Control has launched the OTRK, entitled "The situation in the eradication of the corona virus'. We have three reports. First, Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, will be a presentation, with a duration of 20 minutes, with 30 minutes for questions and answers. This will be followed by a presentation by the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige, which will also last 20 minutes, with questions and answers lasting 30 minutes. The third report is from Le Vallikiv, the chairman of the board of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, whose presentation is 20 minutes, the questions and answers are 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask any waitress a question, but it must fit into the time frame. After the presentations there will be negotiations, where all members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. The initiator has asked for the floor to be given first by the representatives of the political groups. At the end of the debate, we will not take a decision. Should we have more than 1 o'clock in the debate, the initiator has proposed extending the sitting until 2 o'clock. But let's get started. First Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U4	Honourable representative of the people! We are now discussing the most acute and serious issue that our people, our country, are facing. In the current situation of the catastrophic spread of the virus, we must stick together as a society and express our support for our good health and education workers. At the moment, we must ask ourselves, firstly, why we have reached such a situation and, secondly, what to do here in the High Chamber of the National Council. On September 23, the government learned that as the situation continued, we had 600 people in the hospital at the beginning of November. Information back then, it was over a month ago. But it was silenced, on the contrary, it was preferred to reassure the public by saying that the spread of the infection is low and that we are about to arrive at a no-limitation situation. This totally wrong and misguided communication encouraged people's contacts and continues to pay us back painfully. So, seven days after the information I'm referring to, the Minister of Health is right here in the chair. I quote him: "Actually, we are in a situation where even though the country is relatively open and the aggressive strain is spreading, the spread of infection in society is low. " Second quote: " We're in the final stretch. Raising coverage by a few more percent, with a particular focus on risk groups, will actually provide an opportunity to gradually ease these control rules, as well as the restrictions and measures that we have in force today. " It was the government's assessment of the situation on September 30th. I quote my speech on 30 September at this very debate: 'What is going on here is, in fact, a somewhat absurd situation. We are discussing how to remove all restrictions, how to actually return to normal in society, even though we have a situation where we have reached a high level of risk today, where we are receiving sad news of people's deaths, where nearly 800 more are infected. According to the study, we have 2% of unvaccinated people moving around, even though they're in the active distribution phase of the virus. Professor Fisher's records tell us what? They say that we are currently in R level 1.1 we will reach 1,500 infected by the beginning of November a day. [... ] We have a situation in which Mr Merits claims that by modeling it means hundreds of older people who lose their lives. We are talking about some sort of irdreality, although action must be taken and action must be taken immediately." I was wrong. I warned you that the government has been forced to make decisions to bring R down for weeks, but it has not yet dared the government to do so. Let's get this straight. The cowardly and incompetent management of the government has created such a crisis. I'll tell you with full responsibility. What are the reasons? First, low vaccination rate. Don't make me laugh that the government's priority is vaccination. Those are points of conversation. Let's look at the reality. In the spring, there were doubts about the AstraZeneca vaccine in a completely ill communication society. It was dark, so no one finally understood whether to use it or not. It was a knife to the image of vaccination in a certain part of society. The fall in the spring-summer vaccination rate came from the government banning the vaccination of family doctors. At the same time, the experts, the members of the Riigikogu, submitted proposals to speed up vaccination. Through teeth pressing, essentially always several months too late, the government step by step withdrew and promised to implement them. Unauthorized stretching. Second, the effectiveness doses. In September, the need for efficacy doses was known. According to Professor Meritsa, we've had 25,000 doses of Circa. It would have been possible in time, given the six-month rule, after six months the immunity will begin to fall on the basis of the current information, with an effective dose of 122000 now. What's that gonna do? The efficacy dose gives the vaccinee 20 times more protection within three months. But the government, once again, forbids any dose of effectiveness after six months. Consider the third example of vaccination effectiveness. At the same meeting in the Riigikogu on 30 September, I offered the idea of a €100 drug card for elderly people during the course of vaccination counselling. On the proposal of the Minister for Health, it received EUR 100 on the government table for the vaccination in cash. It would certainly be fair to give it to people who have been vaccinated before. But the government turned this proposal on the table, and that's where it's left off. This is a rare degree of indecision. You see, actually, raising it on the table at government level and then not deciding on it is counterproductive. As a result, some older people are not vaccinated because they expect the promised money. What are we joking about? This proposal comes today, not figuratively today, but literally today. But the government doesn't do that by falling behind some broader philosophical considerations of money-reading and greed. I would remind you that the cost of the additional budget for the previous wave was EUR 600 million. It's a price tag costing indecisiveness. To increase the reliability of vaccination and the safety of people, the vaccination damage fund that the Minister is talking about could be [may be]. Let's do it! The thing that's not, it's the government's decision. According to the other minister, the minister hasn't filed any fund papers. Now for the vaccination plan. The government had no current plan for a certain time in the spring, then a month in the summer. According to the Auditor General, there is no current vaccination plan that is practically operational either. In the middle of October, a plan was adopted as an annex to the plan of the operational programme, which, on the one hand, amends, on the other hand, repeats the plan itself. In the current situation, the Health Board is forecasting a record increase this week, 11000 infected. In the middle of November, the hospital needs 700. What can I do? The infection coefficient R has to be reduced to a lower level, that's all wisdom. The government, as the Minister of Health proudly mentions, currently has martial law, as the Minister says, has a vague recommendation: a recommendation not to make events. In a situation where we are allowed to have events with 5,000 people, the government is suggesting that in some kind of foggy way the events should be canceled. This is indecisive, in a catastrophic situation where clear decisions are needed. R should have been brought down by the end of September and we would have fewer deaths and fewer hospital loads. In order to make a vicious decision, the cruelest decisions will inevitably be imposed later, we learned it and experienced it on our skin as a whole society in March. But there is another theoretical possibility. The government cannot be capable of simply letting the crisis roll its own way. Here's another choice: create livestock immunity. According to Professor Meritsa, if R remained at this level in up to 200 days, a large part of the population has suffered from the virus and this means the death of up to 2500 people. The question is whether the government intends to go this way quietly. The Minister of Health reads a series of infirms to the public. But, I stress, we have not made such an ethical choice as a society. It is the government's duty to protect the constitutional right to life. Right now, intentionally or unintentionally, you're ruining it with indecisiveness. Communications. The positions are crucified. According to the Auditor General, the implementing bodies hear the decisions together with the public. According to a representative of family doctors, the confusion is greater than during the first and second waves. Family doctors also hear some information about the "Actual Camera." Schools. Again, decisions to keep schools open are born too late or not done. Why didn't we protect children in schools by mass testing from September 1st? Instead, at the end of September, there was talk of stopping the testing because there were so many infected people. Stretched by testing. The consequence of this delay is that the virus has reached homes through children, and that is why we are on course for the collapse of the hospital network. On 2 October, I received an expert's cry for help: "41.5% of the positive tests in children's institutions came last week. If schools aren't taken seriously, it's gonna be a very sad December. " The indecisiveness of the government has failed to protect schools. Tools exist at the same time, and I made these proposals already at the end of September. First, mass testing in schools. What did my proposal say besides the representative of the city of Tallinn? "But we don't have the money. " A representative of family doctors said on 11 October in the Special Committee on State Budget Control that the first test for close contact testing is too early and the second test too late. Several activities are carried out without much benefit in keeping schools open. In Estonia, he claims that about two tests per student are foreseen per year. About two tests! Now the price of indecision is to be seen. Despite what has been said so far, schools are being shut down and the government is just watching. Another thing about schools is ventilation. In schools without forced ventilation, portable room air cleaners should be purchased in classes recommended by the Technical Surveillance Inspection in the spring of March. A few thousand euros of machine. Its price is in the order of EUR 20 million for the country. Again, it has not been done. The government's only step was to allocate EUR 30 million to local governments for investments, including building ventilation in schools. As we have read in the press, this money was used to build, among other things, light traffic routes and everything else. This greed and indecisiveness will hurt us again. I asked the Minister of Health in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which is his position on ventilation. Yeah, schoolkeepers should handle it. What is the position on mass testing in schools? Yeah, the Department of Education should handle it. Everything else you should be doing. That is what will lead us back to who will decide in this crisis, who will lead the resolution of this crisis in a situation where we have moved for weeks into an increasingly hot and serious phase of the crisis. What can be done practically? First of all, it is about vaccinated or inflamed close contacts in families. In particular, close contact should be started in families where the likelihood of infection with the virus is significantly higher, taking into account permanent contact between family members, testing and, if necessary, considering the principle of self-insulation as an alternative. Secondly, it is certainly practical, as has been pointed out by several experts, to extend the validity of the evidence of infirmity up to the year. Thirdly, greater access to testing in society. This also means the availability of rapid tests for groups which, for economic reasons, do not acquire them. The state must make them available. Fourthly, as I said, the most vulnerable groups. There are still tens of thousands of people in the most vulnerable group without vaccination protection. I'm talking about the elderly. They must be accompanied by additional motivations which the government has not been able to decide or has not been willing to decide. What we are not spending, in the hope that it is saved money, will inevitably cost society orders of magnitude. Next, the question is that we are in the acute phase of the spread of the virus. The acute phase of viral transmission requires us to take acute and rapid steps to bring the infection coefficient down. It's school break. The assumption is that during school break, the rate of infection is slightly lower. But it is inevitable that the government will have to make decisions about this coefficient of infection, not to make foggy and vague recommendations. Also in the Commission's debate on who participated there, it remembers the question of who really has to cancel what events, in a situation where the government's own guidance is that events take place indoors with up to 5 000 people. The school question, I'll come back to that. First, continuous and systematic mass testing. The country has failed on the beginning of the school year. The first decade in October had more than 30 hearths in Tallinn schools. Even then, there was total inactivity in response to the introduction of mass testing. Similarly, it is a question of ensuring ventilation in classrooms. Ventilation in classrooms to direct air six or seven times will again reduce the spread of the virus by a magnitude even if there is a coronapositive person in the classroom. The thing that we are definitely missing, which we do not have, and which has also been pointed out by the Auditor General, is that we do not have a clear understanding of what will happen next in this phase of the virus. I've read the numerical projections, which in reality mean that the maximum capacity of hospitals will be increased, which means that the virus will increase. So what's the government's answer? We've had this virus for a year and a half. What are the steps that we know will be taken by the government when we enter a new phase? Now we're at a high stage of virus spread. Take care of the traffic light brochure that was introduced to us in the spring confirmed by the government. Can we find the answers there? We won't find any answers there. The crisis management [did not take into account] predictability and predestination, although we knew what would happen in September. Nor did the Minister of Health deny this: if there is an increase in the number of people infected with the virus, the hospital burden will increase with time delay. It's all been known, it's not a secret of any kind. Instead, we have been told that we are about to arrive in a restricted society. Unfortunately, this is completely misleading rhetoric in the catastrophic phase of the high-flux virus. Philosophically, it is undoubtedly right, one day this virus will end and society will eventually gain control of this virus, but in the current situation, we must act, not to look at things in silence. Of course, all measures need to be implemented, and a number of measures have not been implemented to increase the reliability of vaccination among those who hesitate, and to motivate people at risk to further vaccinate. I'm sure the serious question is that the virus has been going on for a year and a half. In the first phase of the virus, when the special situation still existed, the situation was that the Riigikogu, as a general mandate, gave a mandate to establish all restrictions as individual arrangements to the government. Now, in a situation where the virus has lasted for a year and a half and continues for an unpredictable period, months, years from different estimates, we need a state-of-law clear platform, a law-level platform concerning the control of the corona virus. There can be no alternative in the rule of law. Just as it has been done in the Republic of Finland, for example, as the Chancellor of Justice has unequivocally demanded. This does not mean that my call is to put aside measures now, in the acute, catastrophic phase of the virus. Of course, on the basis of current law, these measures must be implemented, but it is important to prepare a clear legal framework that specifically concerns individual restrictions that can be discussed in Parliament's forum and legally protected at law level. Last one. We need a serious debate in society on social dialogue, also in the case of this virus, to put positive pressure on the government to act. There is no doctrine of this application of hidden herd immunity, I emphasise, no one publicly stated in society, no one in society has set this as a public objective, but the current indecision forces us to ask whether this is the path we have chosen. Last week's decisions are not objectively sufficient at the time-critical stage of the acute transmission of the virus. Unfortunately, there is no doubt about that. I would certainly like to call for the formation of a social council in which the President of the Republic, who has already dealt with these issues, could be the one with whom it could be, who is looking for certain principles concerning vaccination, so that people have confidence in vaccination, but in fact [this is important] also in terms of questions of principle to the government. And, of course, the role of the Riigikogu. In the Riigikogu, the committees are discussed as so-called side-formats. However, if we have a legal framework for the anti-virus law, I think that, in parallel, we could also set up Parliament's committee of problems. It is absurd that on this issue, which is now the most important, acute issue in the country, we do not have a committee on Parliament's problems that would work in the same way as the Commission on European Union affairs every week. He would look at the government's proposals, listen to the implementers, and act weekly as a systematic monitoring body for antivirus. The virus is with us for a long time. The indecisiveness of the government does not give any confidence that, without the vigorous intervention of Parliament, we will be able to emerge from this crisis with the lowest possible loss of life and the lowest possible loss to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U5	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U6	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, I do not think it is right here to talk about the virus, [only] above all about our role, the role of Parliament. I proposed that we discuss the activities of the government, its legitimacy and the role of the Riigikogu. Yesterday we tried to bring it to the picture in the Riigikogu, they voted it down. After all, our special committee and I have been discussing these matters on an ongoing basis, but there has been no use. You're saying we should set up a Trouble Committee. Then you're told Jürgen Ligi or someone says 120,000 a year to pay, and it's awfully expensive. Is it going to be the way we talk about it all the time, the government fights about whips and carrots, but the train goes on and 2,500 corpses, the grandfathers mostly, get to the cemetery?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U7	Yes, if such a doctrine of herd immunity is chosen, it has a price for society, and that price is expressed in human lives. The problem is that we have also seen the proposals put forward by the various parties in the government coalition, the virus, has been transformed into a political phenomenon. This is definitely a very serious problem. Antivirus control does not have a governance mechanism such as those proposed by political parties in the government. Here we come back to the fact that the control scheme for this virus, which was pointed out in its report, is also completely out of place by the Auditor General. But even the Auditor General could not point out this because his report was prepared earlier that there was also a party anti-virus mechanism. The parties will put forward proposals for political agreement: some proposals will be adopted, some will not be adopted. This is certainly not a normal code of conduct in resolving the crisis, in resolving the acute crisis. As far as parliamentary supervision is concerned, it is symptomatic that the meeting of 11 October, where we had information on the catastrophic growth of the spread of the virus, did not find the time to come, regrettably, neither the Minister of Health nor the Prime Minister. In a situation where, I recall, the information that's going to happen with the hospital burden was in the government's pockets of decision-makers on 23 September. As we have seen in the first and second waves of this virus, indecisiveness over the weeks will undoubtedly mean that the virus will not disappear spontaneously, but will continue a very large and rapid progression. That's what's happening right now. In this situation, there is nothing else to say but that we must first find an adequate form of parliamentary work. If this virus is now a normal in our society, its normality is its normality, then we must certainly also find permanent forms of parliamentary work, since we have a legal framework, and secondly, that we also have a framework of parliamentary supervision. This is not the most important issue, this is the introduction of priorities in the legislative package, which is now the most important issue to be dealt with. And the question of money, EUR 100000, EUR 200000. The money comes from various measures, such as the purchase by the state of centrally portable hoods, mass testing in schools or motivating the elderly to vaccinate. Once again, I stress that I gave an example of an additional budget when the virus was released uncontrolled during the second wave. Its price cap was EUR 600 million to compensate society for restrictions. The costs we are talking about are lower in order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U8	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Urmas! What you're talking about right now is true, of course, but I think it's all superficial. The foundation lies in the same political decision-making that concerns the whole struggle. If we look at the aims of the liberal party at all, we know that liberalism means how to say a self-righteous, competitive solution to the problem, then I believe that most of the members of this party have not thought about these issues. I believe that this is a largely subconscious choice. This choice is exactly the same achievement of mass immunity. I'd call it a sanitation party to let people just get out of this world. It's those parents that's disappearing. That's why we're saving up on retirement money. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thanks to this, we will also save on health insurance funds in the future...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U10	Time, Riho!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U11	...and save apartments, everything, everything, housing. For now, it's a cost. That's one step back, two steps forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U12	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U13	How do you look at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U14	Indecision has the price of whether it is defined as an objective or not. When, on this indecisiveness, my colleague in the Special Committee on State Budget Control asked Professor Meritsa what this would mean as the situation continues, that no further restrictions would be imposed, the answer was indeed this: 1000.2500 leaving the world. This is a reality that has been highlighted by academic expertise. Now the question of what is the government's goal in the current situation. What is the government's goal? I understand that the two main objectives, which have been emphasised and which I will sign with two hands, are: firstly, reducing hospital loads to keep hospitals running so that there is no excessive hospital overload, and secondly, keeping schools open. Both objectives have failed in the current situation, I say. It is not a question of saying that it is too late now. I'm sure you can't say that. On the contrary, we must act now, literally and not figuratively, on this day. The levers I described have not fallen from the Lord's sky. These levers are actually known about the current phases of the virus, the experience of other countries, academic expert advice. But look where they're going like mice. What did Jaak Aab say at Postman's studio? "But why should the government decide? " On September 23, Jaak was also on Aab's desk, right, the type of hospital load that would turn into. And then he announced last week why the government should have decided. "But no one made any suggestions for us. " It's very symptomatic that the government has somehow become an automatic pilot, in addition to a lot of talk points. This is not how we emerge from this crisis, from this catastrophic situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U15	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U16	Thank you. My question concerns an extremely topical issue: schools and testing. There's been a lot of talk about testing. I have a question whether your committee has discussed the subject of testing from the point of view of mass testing in schools. I think that's what the government has come to, and today it's gonna decide. I draw attention to when [this happens]: one working day before the end of the school break, when the new study period starts on Monday, we reach the conclusion that schools should start mass testing. I have heard very different views from members of the government. Some say that this can only be done properly by a healthcare professional. Yesterday we heard the Minister of Education say that every five-year-old child could do this. We know that students who have received a positive response should be isolated, sent home. This whole problem is undisputed. How have we come to see that only one working day before the education continues, the government comes to this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U17	Because the government is indecisive. The fact that mass testing must be done in schools was my proposal on 30 September. It was a reaction to the news from the Health Board that the test should be tightened up, which was probably done this very same week of work. I had an appeal to the Minister for Health that mass tests should be carried out immediately in schools, Mr Minister. On 2 October, I sent a letter to the mayor of Tallinn, where I called for it. The Commission discussed this. The representative of the city of Tallinn said that they do not have the funds, the money is not, it is going to be very expensive for these mass tests. We also heard from a representative of family doctors that there are calculated two tests per student per year for schools. The Minister for Health, whom the Commission managed to meet on Wednesday morning, said that all of this is certainly very reasonable, but it is within the competence of the Minister for Education. In short, leadership is completely fragmented. Looking back at the proportion of school infections that, in turn, have passed on to families and families to other parts of society, [it is clear] that, of course, mass testing arrangements should have been put in place right at the beginning of the school year. This does not mean that it can now be an excuse to let it go, but that it should be put in place immediately. The symptomatic handwriting of the government has been here, as I said, that the demands of entrepreneurs and experts in society to implement a variety of flexible tools have been [implemented] with more or less two months delay, both in summer and spring and now. This two-month sign has been a terrible price tag.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U18	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U19	Thank you. Good waitress! I thought I was on the agenda [for discussion] where the Special Committee on State Budget Control should discuss some sort of structural policy, resource use, cost-effectiveness, but I hear very subjective statements from the chairman of the committee, political declarations, reflections from the government. What does this have to do with the item on the agenda? What does this have to do with the competence of your committee, and when can we start talking about it? In fact, today's session has been announced on other topics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U20	Thank you. No, this issue is still one and clear: from the control of the corona virus in the current situation. The National Budget Control Committee has discussed these issues several times since the third wave emerged, during the third wave. We in the Commission have put forward our proposals to combat the explosive growth of the virus. Mr Ligi said that we need to talk about the matter, we need to talk about the money. Today we are talking about human lives and we are talking about the functioning of society as a whole, which can also be quite freely expressed in macro-economic financial categories. There is no doubt about that. An example of what this means in money was during the second phase of the virus, as I said, when the virus was actually uncontrolled and then later the dragonic restrictions began to level it. Its price was an additional budget of EUR 600 million. In the current situation, we can say what money means that schoolchildren cannot go to school. I think it is a question of the functioning of society as a whole and the functioning of society as a whole must be dealt with by the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu must deal with those matters that are important. That's how the authority of a representative of the people comes into being. I started my speech on the fact that there is no more important question. Pecking at nuances is not a question; the question is that this hall must be a place for open discussion. In this Chamber, I will openly assess from the point of view of these debates what I think are important problems right now, the problems that have brought us here, but also possible solutions that can take us forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U21	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The government is constantly communicating that we have a very difficult situation here. In the fight against the Corona virus, Latvia is set as an example, where there is a look at what is happening! The curfew and so on. But somehow the government does not want to follow the example of more progressive countries. For example, from India, which here was the subject of an insane coronasurm. That's where the ivermectin was taken care of. I think Brazil too, as far as I know. Or another example. There are absolutely no restrictions in Norway, as according to yesterday's rates of infection, there are 147.1 [infection] per 100000 people. There's 69,11% of the full shots. The principle is that Norway has declared the corona virus equal to the flu. Shouldn't we go this way too, India or Norway? Norway's way would be more reasonable because we're north.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U23	Thank you. The question is what is the situation where we are in place, where society is in a catastrophic phase of spread of the virus, the government's substantive and clear political spirit and decisions. Did we hear that on Monday? We didn't hear that. Mr. Minister of Health has left the room. Mr. Minister of Health said we were in a war situation. Yesterday, the Minister for Health said that if the situation is expanding or the crisis is getting worse, we may have to declare an emergency situation. But what are the real decisions of the government, what is the purpose and what are the decisions, that we have not seen. It will then not be possible to talk about the implementation or use of one or another country's model if the government is not clearly targeted at exiting the crisis in an acute crisis phase. This is a very, very serious problem. Yes, Madam Prime Minister spoke nicely, he did not say wrong: vaccination must be given. The question is what I was trying to point out is that these are declarative words and rhetoric regarding vaccination. Good are the family doctors who initiated the action, and good are all private medical service providers who do it. But I drew attention to the fact that there are some strategic so-called 'empty' choices that the government has made and that, as a result, vaccination has become blocked. The most drastic is the current situation, the acute situation with the effectiveness doses. More than 100,000 people could now be protected by an effectiveness dose. It is blocked by the indecisiveness of the government, being put behind some European requirements. That's not true. This is the total confusion that is being said, this European requirement. The general question is that countries make these choices themselves. Six months is what we can say that [after this] the immunity of a fully vaccinated person begins to decline. This is the situation in which we are in a completely unmanageable situation. We can see that decisions will come autonomously, as the city of Tallinn did yesterday. There the primary classes are stopped for a week, they're threatening that maybe even longer. At this stage, we have come to such so-called self-proclaimed autonomous decisions. But what's the government's answer to that? "I'm really sorry that's the case. I'm sorry, it's none of our business. That's not our question, we wouldn't have decided that. " But how do you decide? What decisions did you fail to make, or what decision do you make today? There is no answer, and that is extremely worrying. We can't get out of this acute spread phase by this side-slip. That's my whole message.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U24	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good Urmas! Well, as a minister, we could all give the media a message that the situation is confusing. This is a messed-up situation. That's what we could all do. But in order to win this war, there is a need for coordinated communication and, in fact, the contribution of each individual is needed. This week, the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, proposed that the Government of Liina Kersna be asked for a coronal certificate in entertainment institutions aged 12 to 18 years. At the same time, we know that children have been deprived of the opportunity to prove their medical condition by means of a negative test. Irja Lutsar has previously said that children are not the target group. I think we all agree that family responsibility is and will remain. How do you describe the situation we've come to?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U26	I'm describing this situation as a complete communicative porridge. We're in an absurd situation right now. I recall the words of the Minister of Health that the spread of infection is low in society. That's what he said on September 30th. I had to say on 30 September that we were actually in a catastrophic situation where 800 infected people came in a day and that this would lead to very painful consequences. The question of the different individual measures for these same corona passports and evidence of infirmity. For me, the question is, I want to see the answers. If we have such an acute stage of virus transmission, the only real question is that if we want to contain the virus, so that it doesn't become so massively infected that people don't die so that the hospital burden doesn't increase, then people's general communication has to be reduced, the coefficient of infection has to go down. Just as we remember from the last phase of the virus, when we discussed that yes, some of the measures that are being taken are going to lead down this coefficient of infection. With all these measures, I want an answer to what effect this will have on the coefficient of infection. All measures are, in fact, more ideological than evidence-based today. We do not have an answer to whether we will receive a guarantee that we do not have, in the logic of the vaccination plan, of how much additional vaccinees we will have. The vaccination plan's targets, which were set, have blown up the boom-boom-boom. It's objectivity, it's not the subjective request the government had. Now the situation is that we are in a completely different, critical phase of virus spread. The Minister confirmed that these restrictions, which were decided last Tuesday and are now gradually being enforced by day, will lead to a lower rate of infection in the coming weeks. I, having consulted experts, am, to put it mildly, doubtful about the coming weeks. But we'll see what happens. I now think that, in a critical situation where we have lost control of the spread of the virus and must regain control of the spread of the virus in society, a different kind of handwriting must be chosen, not the kind of dormant handwriting that the government has unfortunately enjoyed over the last few months.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U27	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Regrettably, it will soon be two years from the beginning of the pandemic. We got to that recognition a little later. All governments in the world have faced very difficult situations. We've had two governments, both of which have had a very difficult situation. Come on, honey, remind me. For the previous government, it was a so-called newcomer as a virus. What was the strategy you chose? It is known that countries chose a wide range of strategies. Was it zero tolerance for the virus, completely eliminated, was it just suppressing, was it just a little restraint, or was it not a strategy at all? What was the longer strategy of the previous Estonian government in dealing with the virus?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U29	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Health can correct after me. It seems to me that in the first phase, when there were huge Draconical predictions about the [caused] mortality of the virus, it was actually a strategy of elimination to essentially exterminate the virus from society, isolate and exterminate it. Most countries in the world applied it. It can be said that by summer, whether it was because of weather, because of seasonality or why, it actually happened. In autumn, a strategy to keep the virus lower was already chosen. In fact, this lower holding may be discussed, since this [infection] entered the stage of growth, right, at the end of last year and at the beginning of that year. But in an uncontrollable phase, it took us at the beginning of the year and then the dragonic suppression measures were re-elected for containment. Now my question is what strategy we are taking in now. Like I said, there's a lot of options. The hidden choice can also be that there is a herd immunity, that there is nothing to do, that in less than 200 days the virus will cross the public. It's got a bloody price tag. I think it's an unethical price tag. But you have to put it this way and discuss it ethically. In my opinion, society is not ready to tolerate it, and it cannot be done around the corner. Therefore, we still have a question at the moment that more draconian measures must once again contain the virus and repress it. We're talking about the virus hitting people anyway, the thought that some expert has expressed that death here or in Siberia, that if the unvaccinated or even weaker, high-risk vaccinated person doesn't catch the virus now, we're only gonna buy time with restrictions, and it's gonna hit him in the spring, I think, unethical. In this logic, too, the three months of life that we gain for 1,000+ people are actually a value in which I say that society must work together. There is no such moral choice that death here or in Siberia will eventually die one way or another. So we have to make that decision. At the moment, I do not see that the government has made decisions protecting society, in a situation where the reins were lost. The cart driver's already taken control of the horse, hasn't he? There is now a need for much stronger and more resolute decisions. At present, the government has chosen a long-term target to put pressure on people to vaccinate. This is, of course, a positive strategic objective, but we must recognise that in the acute catastrophic phase, it will not help to bring the virus under control for weeks. It's all my message.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U30	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Minister of Education has said that money is not a problem in acquiring tests in educational institutions for mass testing. Today we hear that schoolchildren have not been given any practical input on how to apply for this money, and schools do not have any. On Monday, the government has ordered schools to perform mass testing of students before the start of the new quarter. However, even the question of where and how the tests reach the school is still unresolved, not to mention further steps in carrying out the tests. Hence the question: how is money for testing and how do you assess the process of preparing schools for mass testing, if you look at it from the Commission's point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U32	I don't appreciate it. There were experts here, there were SYNLAB who came up with suggestions. In September, screening was carried out in Viimsi or how to tell where screening was carried out, but 10% of the children were infected at Viimsi school. From the point of view of these examples, I called for this mass testing in schools to be put in place immediately in September. We already had a large number of school fires, and now this [infection] has moved to a so-called harali, much of it has happened through school monsters. That doesn't mean we don't have to pull ourselves together in hours, days, hours. There's no excuse for being bullied. Then the day-to-day work must be done, and the mass testing of children must be carried out. This mass testing should also, in my opinion, be an effort to keep the schools in Tallinn open. What are you talking about? If we can establish that children are not carriers of the virus, why are we holding schools? The papers say it's the Vice-Chairman of the Central Party against the Second Vice-Chairman of the Kõlvarti tour de force Tanel Kiige. Listen, are we in a situation where we now have thousands of children home-schooled because we also have a party-to-party power test instead of party-to-party boxing, who is a stronger man? It's kind of embarrassing. You're not? Test the children, test the children on my behalf, even every day with a quick test. After all, the couple of euros it costs for the speed test is actually a cheaper solution than the fact that children have to stay at home. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U33	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U34	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The government has proposed to pay every local government five euros for every new person who has vaccinated himself. Could this be a working solution if, for example, we paid every member of the government five euros for every person vaccinated in their constituency? Could this amount motivate them to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U35	No, I don't understand this proposal at all. We spoke to a representative of the Municipalities and Cities Association during the summer. A representative of the Federation of Municipalities and Cities stated that municipalities were not involved at all in vaccination. They have not been asked anything, for example. That was their official position. Then we called on the Commission to involve them. I think Tallinn also called for them to contact unvaccinated people. They'd like to know who's been vaccinated, who's not. The city would provide the elderly with an information line and advice, which in itself is not a bad idea, to provide counselling services. But this [information] as was not given to them. I don't know if this question has settled now. In short, I do not understand what it means to pay money in general dynamics in this sense, if the local government does not have formal competence, it does not have databases or anything. I interpret it in a pure form before the local elections as the idea of the Centre Party that simply the municipalities will receive money. The substance of the current acute stage of virus circulation, where we are, [it does not exist], does not constitute a measure of subtraction of any substantial coefficient of infection. The fact that municipalities should be supported, municipalities involved, all parties involved is elementary. Certainly, if we look at the current central antivirus management, we can discuss whether the management of the municipalities plus the private sector virus[anti-virus] would have been more effective. I do not rule out that it would have been faster and more efficient, and it would have been possible to ask someone for results. In the current fog, in the current twilight to find out who is responsible for managing this crisis and what the measurable objectives of this responsible person by time zone and what methods it is applying are almost impossible. In the current situation, this is almost impossible. We have the same question. What if, in a month's time, we fulfill the negative predictions that the Health Board proposed this week? What happens then? So, what are the restrictions, Mr. Minister of Health? Come to the chair and tell us. Tell us, tell us honestly what happens in a month, what happens if we have numbers like this, that the hospital load is 700 and so on. Don't tell us any points. We've drowned in the sea of these talking points.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U36	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the time for questions and answers is over, I can't take any more questions. Thanks to the waitress! We can go to the next report. Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, please! 20 minutes is the report. But before we go to it, we have one procedure. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. There's only one coalition ambassador in this room, I'm watching, and none of them are here permanently. We have agreed that it will be possible to ask each of the rapporteurs a question within 30 minutes. If, within 30 minutes, there are people who want to ask a question, and there is no further wish, could we then agree that those who are interested in this topic could ask another question within this 30 minutes? That would be a rational use of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U38	I understand. Yes, we can, although I am already looking at the number of questions that we may not be able to reach, given that the next waitress is likely to respond thoroughly. Please, Tanel!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U39	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members! First of all, I am very pleased that this debate is taking place in Parliament. There has undoubtedly been a great deal of help and support from various debates both in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, as well as from correspondence and exchanges with opposition and coalition ambassadors. I believe that this must undoubtedly be the case in times of crisis. Perhaps, as my previous speakers have said, and the President of the Republic has also made it very clear, the resolution of this crisis is a matter common to all of us. It is a matter of public institutions, local authorities, the private sector, health care anyway, but it is also a matter for every resident of Estonia. Speaking of the situation in COVID-19, it has to start with the finding that the hospital care situation has deteriorated about twice as fast as expected a few weeks ago. On 11 October, when it was estimated that there would be 360-370 patients in hospital care at the beginning of this week, there were, in fact, already over 500 patients. There are 542 patients in hospitals this morning, 379 of whom are there because of symptomatic COVID-19 disease. This means that, in parallel with extra-hospital infection, we also face serious challenges with the spread of intra-hospital disease or other health problems with people going to the hospital who may be associated with COVID-19. When we talk about severe or symptomatic COVID and those patients who are in hospital 379, we see that 70% of them are unvaccinated. It'll give us a very clear signal again. If we know that in society as a whole, about 70% of adults have been vaccinated, even more than the elderly, then in hospital care this situation is the opposite, in the order of 30% of unvaccinated people giving 70% of all symptomatic COVID-19 patients. This is also the answer to many who ask or hesitate to ask whether the vaccines help and if they have an effect. Of course it is. This is demonstrated by research, by our own statistics, and it can be said to you by every healthcare professional, every hospital manager, every doctor, every scientist, as well as every politician, whether or not he says it out loud. At the same time, three quarters of hospital care patients are 60+. It has been one of the centre of gravity of the crisis and a debate, if you remember who to vaccinate, who to protect, who to protect. The Ministry of Social Affairs has said from the outset, in two governments, that, of course, the primary objective must be the vaccination of the elderly and the protection of the elderly. There were other opinions. Happily, we went this way to focus on the elderly first. Family doctors and family nurses have made the most of the contributions, protecting the majority of the elderly. It is precisely their level of vaccination, which could undoubtedly be higher and which should be higher than that of the Nordic countries, but is still significantly higher than, for example, the level at our southern neighbour, has now kept our hospitals and these people from the worst. Perhaps by looking at the same numbers as the rates of infection, we can predict that if we had, for example, 20% lower coverage of the elderly, we would have a thousand patients in hospital care. If we look at each region, the southern region, or University of Tartu Hospital, is currently in the most difficult situation, and the accompanying hospitals and the Ida-Virumaa region, which belongs to the southern region in the medical view. The southern region is essentially at the same level as the infected and the sick at the top of the previous crisis. In the northern region, the situation is somewhat better, which does not mean that it is good, but there is a lower level of infection and a lower number of patients in need of hospital care. At present, the main objective must be to pursue two objectives at the same time: first stabilisation of the situation in the southern region, a gradual decline of infection, and the prevention of further rapid escalation in the northern region. Perhaps the capacity of the major hospitals in Tallinn is high enough to provide in addition to the treatment of COVID-19 patients, the necessary assistance, the maximum amount of scheduled treatment, restricting the workload of the departments, tightening it, but usually not going down the road of unblocking. If the number of patients in need of hospital care is to rise significantly in this region, unfortunately, there must also be very wide-ranging restrictions here, which we must definitely prevent by working together. The work of hospitals, as I referred to earlier, makes it more difficult to deal with problems both outside and within hospitals in parallel. It shows how contagious the delta strain is. If this morning we have 160 patients infected within the hospital or diagnosed in the hospital across the country, it shows how difficult it is to avoid inpatient lesions and further expansion in hospitals, where the work is carried out in a very professional manner, using personal protective equipment, being tested, and being vaccinated with effective doses and so on. This, of course, gives rise to another call for the whole population: if we are faced with any other health concerns, vaccination and an effective dose, if enough time has passed, will help to prevent us from having to face a serious COVID-19 infection in parallel with our illness or health problems, perhaps in combination with a number of chronic diseases, which means isolation stations, additional personal protective equipment, additional burden on health professionals and additional burden on us as a patient's body. When you ask what to do, it is very important for society to respect, of course, all the rules of infection safety at the moment, this masking is indoors, keeping distance, testing for any symptoms, staying at the home of sick children in kindergarten, school or any kind of recreational activity. There can be no hesitation here at all. If you have any symptoms of your own or your child, you must stay at home, you must take the test immediately. It is simply not possible to go anywhere to go wandering, to have an interest, to have an education, to have a working life before you get a negative test result. This applies to everyone, both vaccinated and non-vaccinated [people], I certainly emphasise that. If a person is ill, he is ill, if there are symptoms, then you have to test and stay home. Even if the test is negative, but the person is sick, in fact, because of course there are other viruses and other infectious diseases. That's another thing. Surely all of us have events and activities that can be omitted. Today's rule is that all that can be postponed is this professional meeting, it's a family gathering, it's a birthday celebration, entertainment, etc. Of course, I'm not saying that the family is not allowed to sit at the dinner table tonight. Of course it's okay. But if there is a choice between bringing together five more families or having a bigger birthday event, my request is to do so later, if the spread of the virus is lower and if the vaccination coverage is higher. The third thing we can all do is, of course, thank and acknowledge the health professionals who have made an enormous contribution during this crisis, and not just one and a half years or 20 months, which this pandemic has been going on, but health care is actually operating in Estonia working overtime and overloaded throughout the year, so it was before the pandemic and so it is after the pandemic. We know that there are fewer health professionals in Estonia than the population would expect. We know that we are contributing 6.5% of GDP to the health sector, with the population's own contribution, from the state budget to the size of 5%, below that. At the same time, there are countries that contribute 10% with people, such as the Nordic countries, whose level we always want to reach. Of course, the health system is much stronger, with more health resources, more people. For us, the coming of every crisis means that the already overloaded health care system is under even more pressure. I would like to warmly thank all health professionals. I hope that the whole of Parliament will join in. I also stress from this hall, from this remote control that any attack on medical personnel is unacceptable, it is linked to vaccination, the provision of health services, or it is a question of questioning the scientific information they have provided. Tagging, attacking or any provocation is unacceptable. It's just irresponsible. There must be no such thing in the country. It is all the worse that, unfortunately, many politicians have promised it. We need the contribution of all residents in Estonia now. Well, to put it simply, we need voluntary mobilization. Each person needs to think about what the steps he can take. I used to list these examples. There's always more, there's always more to think about. For those who have not yet received vaccination, of course the first step, the first action should be to go into vaccination. This applies to all residents in the 12+ age group. An adult who has passed six months of completion of the primary course is right to take an effective dose, especially when dealing with an elderly person, a resident of a nursing home or an employee or a frontier worker. We are already seeing the same mobilisation in the country. We see Latvia discussing this in the field of health. But in Estonia, I very much thank all these ministries, municipalities who have already come to help, health professionals, of course, anyway. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence have contributed significantly to ensuring compliance with the rules and to promoting vaccination during the first, second and third waves and to helping with hospital work. Their contribution is crucial. This shows how, in difficult times, public authorities and national associations take responsibility and initiative, just as a private service provider does in presenting his thoughts and proposals, to help with vaccination, to support hospital care, especially in developing digital solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U40	Can I have a minute? Please, ladies and gentlemen, take your dispute out of the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U41	I will stick to what I have said many times before. The only way out of this crisis is through vaccination, the only sustainable solution. All other activities, as I described earlier, to mitigate the risk of infection, to test, to stay at home for symptomatic reasons, are supportive measures, they apply to each viral disease, for each disease, but when we talk about solutions to the crisis, the restrictions are temporary [the measure]. The restrictions are what we are doing to get the infection rate down, as the previous speaker pointed out, but vaccination is out of the crisis. This is where I thank all the 788829 people who have already been vaccinated by this morning. The shed has been completed by over 756000 of them. According to the population, we have reached 59.3% in one dose, 56.8% in completed courses. The same numbers for adults are as follows: at least 69.2% started, at 66.5% completed. Perhaps 2/3 of adults are protected by vaccination completed this morning. In the 60+ age group, as I indicated in the most critical age group, these numbers are somewhat higher, 72.4% started and 70% completed. Of course, 70% doesn't satisfy us. If you ask what the target is and what the level we need to reach is also stated by the COVID-19 scientific council: 70% of the total population, not adults, but the total population, and 85% of the risk groups, i.e. the same elderly and chronic patients, are protected. This is, in fact, the level at which it is estimated that, from this point on, we will reach a restricted society. This is the same debate that was here a month ago, these are the same numbers that I used in mid-September when we organised a separate seminar with the members of the scientific council in the Riigikogu conference hall. We now see that we need to increase the coverage of the entire population by 10% and a little more among the risk groups in order to get there. This means an additional 150,000 injections of protection, which is certainly not impossible. Nearly 31000 people have received an additional or efficacy dose. I am pleased that, at my request, the immunologists assessed the current situation and concluded that, in the current epidemiological situation, it is justified for all people who have six months since completed the primary vaccination course, if they wish to allow an effective dose. This decision has been made at the National Experts' Committee on Immunoprophylaxis. Of course, the elderly continue to be a priority. The age group 65+ must certainly do so, the residents and workers of the nursing home, the front line workers, as well, but this option is open to anyone who has completed at least half a year of the primary course, regardless of the vaccine used. In the current epidemiological situation, this is certainly the right choice and the right move. We can see that there are countries that have been able to improve their epidemiological situation with the aid of efficiency doses. We cannot be guided here by the fact that perhaps in countries with a lower infection rate, the focus is solely on the elderly. We need to focus now on protecting the entire population, in particular with primary vaccination and also with the provision of effective doses. When it comes to vaccination, it is very important, as I have pointed out, to make a broad contribution: public authorities, local authorities, setting an example, the messages of politicians, both from here and outside the hall, in the media and elsewhere. I thank all the political parties in Parliament who have contributed to this, who have made an effort to do so, and I encourage everyone else to do the same. Separately, of course, I recognise family doctors. As I pointed out, family doctors have been the most important in protecting the elderly. We have launched a separate action in cooperation with family doctors. The size of 400 family medical centres across the country is currently in the process of vaccination. It can be said that basically 90% of all GMPs have been vaccinated in October. We're aiming at 100%. We've sent it out in the course of the action, or we've sent 80,000 doses of vaccine in the order of magnitude. We've called it vaccinations. In essence, this means that family doctors and family nurses across the country are vaccinating their own list of patients as well as all others who turn there, offering both primary and other doses as well as booster doses to those who have been given six months after vaccination. At the same time, they're delaying a certain scheduled response, activities that are not time-critical. Of course, in the event of unavoidable treatment, urgent receptions, this time and opportunity will be found. But if it is possible to postpone, just as I said for the whole population, then these choices must be made, and this coverage increased. Very rightly, yesterday Dr Elle-Mall Sadrak said in the first studio that this is the most appropriate time to launch such an action. We have a higher level of infection, we have a higher level of interest in vaccination, the government has put in place additional measures, additional control rules that raise this interest, and it is starting to happen six months in a row, especially for the elderly, but also for the front line workers and others, from finishing the primary course. Perhaps it is possible to perform the first, second and third injections in parallel. In addition to the marketing authorisation for Pfizer/BioNTech, which came in early October, the corresponding vaccine of Moderna with an efficacy dose of half the original amount has recently been authorised. Maybe we have enough vaccine, we have enough capacity, and right now we can see there's a lot of interest in vaccination. Last week, more than 10,500 people received primary protection injections against COVID-19, which is twice as many as a week earlier. More than 26000 injections were given last week, including more than 10000 additional or effective doses. This week, the pace is increasing. In support of family doctors, we have allocated additional money both through the Health Insurance Fund and an additional EUR 5 million by decision of the government, as well as to local authorities. We can ask whether this measure will help or not, but there will certainly be no harm. Obviously, the motivation of local governments to increase the coverage of vaccination is also greater if they also have real financial benefits, in addition to the main benefits of protecting the health and life of their inhabitants. I certainly want to recognise Tallinn, who has also started vaccination at home. Very many municipalities actually, Tallinn, Tartu, Saaremaa, Hiiumaa, very many municipalities all over Estonia, of these 79, I have certainly left some unsolicited ones unsolicited, and have contributed very much throughout this crisis, which has certainly helped to improve the virus situation. At the moment, we need to think about similar moves, it is home vaccination, it is a separate focus on risk groups, it is a way of reaching out to those who hesitate and doubters who have not yet achieved the vaccination. At the moment we speak here, the government discusses restrictions, discusses additional support measures, discusses further steps to prevent the spread of the virus. I'm sure we'll hear from them at a press conference starting at 12:00. I am sorry that I cannot make parallel communication and call them off from the Riigikogu speaker first, but I say that we have reached reasonable agreements, reasonable decisions to bring down the coefficient of infection even further. The cabinet will initiate them in parallel. It is primarily a question of extending the requirement of masking; it is about reducing and restricting entertainment activities; it is about reducing contacts there. We've already talked about testing in schools. I'm really glad it's about to start. Of course, distance learning must be applied in some places; it is also a reality. There's been a question in this hall about how to handle the vaccination damage. I am very pleased that, in the meantime, these speakers have changed their mind. In place of the initially sceptical speech, a supportive statement came today. We have agreed in the government office that we will deal with the reimbursement of vaccination losses with a comprehensive patient insurance system that has already been agreed in the Coalition Agreement and with the [we expect] last feedback in the health sector before launching a corresponding bill. I'm sure we'll move on with that, too. Similarly, there have been complaints or questions about how much private sector feedback has been taken into account. We have regular meetings with representatives of the private sector, regular meetings with representatives of health institutions. Of course, I agree with the criticism that the country could be faster. Some legal circumstances, procurement issues or lack of IT solutions often hinder the country. There have been obstacles. This is not an excuse, it is a real picture, but we have done our best and a partner in the private sector has done its best to overcome them. The vaccination network in Estonia, the health network, is working on the one hand to disrupt the infection chains as soon as possible and, at the same time, with vaccination, the only sustainable solution to mitigate this situation, mitigate the risks and bring us all out of this crisis. I encourage all the parties and future speakers who have appeared in Parliament today to offer good ideas, a common part and constructive messages in order to encourage citizens to make health-conscious and responsible choices. Thank you and I am happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U42	Thank you. There's a lot of questions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U43	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! Oh, yeah, I'd tell you if your call was heard. If you don't notice the details, it looks like it's okay, but there's some contradiction in today's speech and procedure. Every day we read about the test subjects about how many of these tests were performed and how many were positive, but according to the current procedure, only unvaccinated people are sent to perform the test in close contact. We know that vaccinated people suffer more easily, but they carry on the virus. Non-testing of vaccinated people distorts quite a lot of the information we have. I have a question as to why the government does not want to get real information on how many carriers of the virus have been vaccinated as well as among unvaccinated people. True, in your speech you said for the first time that you support the testing of all people without exception. When, where and how did it come from? Take a look at what you've been talking about, read the verbatim. But that's exactly what you said in your speech, even though it's different.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U44	Yes, thank you! I'm going to repeat what I said in the speech to make sure the verbatim is accurate, and I think he's accurate. I said that any symptoms need to be tested, vaccinated or unvaccinated. I'm sure I'll stick to that. Maybe if a person has a cough, a cold, a headache, a fever, and he doesn't know what his health problem is, it's only right to take that test, regardless of whether he's been vaccinated. Similarly, if these symptoms continue, you should stay at home whether you have been vaccinated or not. This distinction, to which you have referred, really is that close contacts are subject to the so-called self-insulation obligation for unvaccinated people who are at risk of both getting sick and passing on infection, just higher than those who have vaccinated themselves. There are countries in Europe that do not test vaccinated people at all. In fact, Estonia is testing quite properly in the event of any symptoms, as I said, in the event of suspected infection, some tests are being carried out in health institutions and elsewhere, just to minimise this risk further. I told you before how easily the infection has spread to hospitals. Maybe that's what we're gonna have to do. However, the fact that there are certain differences between people who have been vaccinated and those who have not been vaccinated elsewhere is scientifically justified. It's also the Health Board's assessment, it's the scientific council's assessment. Just because the risks vary, the level of infection risk varies. But, of course, to act more cautiously and to act, all of us, if we have been in close contact, will then be self-control with the rapid test, it will be, if possible, teleworking, which is now a broader and valid recommendation for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U45	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Personally, I consider vaccination to be very important in combating the virus. Now that we have not managed to administer the vaccination, when the situation is getting out of control, we have actually lost the korona passport as an infectious safety certificate. It is now known that this is no longer sufficient to significantly inhibit the spread of the virus. It is now known that the corona passport is not evidence of infection safety. Coronary passport holders often feel that they are not safe from infection and have given up testing and other precautions. Unfortunately, the infection also spreads to places where the corona pass is required. This unwary attitude does not ease but deepens the problem. Here's my questions. Is the coronal passport system intended to be made more effective in protecting against the virus? If not, how do you justify the continuation of the current system?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U47	Thank you. I'm gonna start with a bigger one. The first country to introduce the COVID passport was Denmark. Denmark was one of the first countries to be able to lift the restrictions. The COVID passport system was one of the key elements in this journey, opening up society, increasing vaccination coverage. Perhaps a very clear success story. Estonia, too, has in some ways taken the example of other countries that have adopted similar systems, developed similar solutions with a relatively similar approach. I think that the COVID passport system is correct, it has certainly helped to support the organisation of more infectious events and activities on the one hand, helped to mitigate these risks, while at the same time it has helped to keep society as open as possible during the pandemic, and undoubtedly also encouraged and encouraged people to go into vaccination. So we will definitely continue with this passport system as long as this pandemic continues. I very much hope, of course, that, together, we can also achieve a sufficiently high level of coverage by vaccination, a level similar to that of the Nordic countries, so that we can also phase out these restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U48	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. On 25 October, the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Medical Association sent a public address to the Riigikogu, the Government and employers. It's a pretty long turn, but it made me ask a question from here. This passage is exactly what I read to you: "To deal with the crisis depends primarily on doctors, nurses, and carers. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find employees in the COVID departments and motivate them to do exhausting overtime. The reduction in state funding may also lead to the loss of additional costs for health care workers who treat corona apacients. The Doctors' Association considers this unacceptable. " My question is: What cuts and possible disappearances of premiums are referred to by the representatives of the Medical Association? We have understood from both you and the Prime Minister that there is enough money and that it will be allocated at all times. Would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U50	Thank you. Indeed, hundreds of millions of additional money have been allocated to the health sector during this crisis, both because of COVID-19 and more widely. The previous government decision, for example, allocated 540 million to the Health Insurance Fund in the form of operating grants to compensate for the tax gap, which has helped to maintain scheduled treatment in parallel and ensure all other health care services. This specific call • I have also been in contact with the head of the Doctors' Association on this subject Of course, our aim is for us to get the maximum control of this pandemic this year, including the situation in hospitals, so that we no longer have such an additional need for money, actually the need for hospital care next year. I believe that this direction and desire are common to all of us in this Chamber and common to all of us in this department. In order to provide additional money for employees in the COVID-19 departments, we have decided to introduce the health fund's reserve capital once again, which we have done in the past and later restored it. In this case, EUR 11,79 million. The amount may be further specified. The Health Insurance Fund shall meet on Friday of the following week to take a formal decision concerning the payment of premiums from October to December. I can assure you, I have also assured the doctors that, of course, if, from January and beyond, we continue to have the situation of COVID-19 in the so-called crisis phase, the need for hospital care is high, we will see that additional departments need to be set up, additional staff to be found, we will also find the means to pay overtime in hospitals, to pay additional coefficients. The source of the cover may be the reserve capital of the Health Insurance Fund, the reserve of the Government of the Republic or, at worst, the additional budget, but, I hope, things will not culminate in this form. For the past two years, you are well aware, this extra money has been specifically targeted there with an additional budget. Either way, we need to find the money. No one thinks that doctors, health care professionals, and nurses should work overtime in the infectious unit without additional coefficients. I certainly don't think that's right, and that's definitely not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U51	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U52	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I would like to return to what I also asked of Mr Reinsalu on my question. When I look at what you're doing, it looks like you're in the middle of a liberal extension of your activities. We recall Lennart Meri saying in his own time. When there was a secret alcohol problem in Pärnu and people died massively, he said there was a sanitary cutting. I would still say that liberals look at this thing as well as talking about mass immunity, I don't want to call it herd immunity, I would call it mass immunity, it's the same process. This is what we have seen in Sweden. The Swedish agenda was such that 10,000 people left because of it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Isn't this a Central Party agenda, I mean? And the question...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U53	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U54	...are you still going to use more powerful legal instruments so that we can get over this thing rather than let people die?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U55	Thank you. Surely our goal is to protect people by vaccination. For this I have stood in two governments, for vaccination to be free of charge and voluntarily available to all residents of Estonia. Perhaps you know that there has not always been a consensus here in the government, especially in the debate of the previous government, but fortunately we have decided that vaccination is free and accessible to everyone. I think it was the only right decision. As far as this other option is concerned, the breakthrough, of course it is a more dangerous option, it is, of course, an option with complications. We have over 10,000 people who have had this disease in hospital care, and more than 100,000 people who have been infected. My advice is, of course, to vaccinate before this virus finds any of us. We know that the risk of infection is that we have two options: either a safer, more effective, more secure way, or a much more dangerous way of carrying out a disease with unpredictable consequences, which may have very serious complications, long-term side effects that [all] are not even known yet, as this disease has not been present in this country for so long.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U56	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U57	Good manager! Good waitress! Speaking of the fight for the Coron, your government could be called the government of the whip and the carrot. The Reform Party is clearly flogging, the Centre Party is, or at least you, I understand, you're more like a fang. Explain how it has been achieved that the proponents of the whip prevail and that the carrot's suppliers are drawn like water. Is that even true?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U58	Thank you. It's not like that. I will start by saying that I am very sorry at all that we have reached where we are once again having to discuss tightening up the control rules, or that, as the previous speaker said, we are taking stronger steps. In fact, vaccination, protection of the population, could have prevented it. This was also the main objective and target for the introduction and implementation of the vaccination of the population. We are there between two, we have not gone to the extreme, we have not reached the limit, we have not reached the curfew, but we cannot live the life that people in the Nordic countries are living today, because simply the level of coverage with vaccination is not yet there. I hope we get there. That's what we're all working for. Different opinions, differing views and ideas in the government do not run by political party lines, I can assure you that was not the case in the previous government either. In fact, this debate and the debate are more broad-based, there are different areas, different sectors. After all, everyone tries to find the best solution, on the one hand, by ensuring infection safety, prevention of the virus, while also preserving people's cultural opportunities, leisure opportunities, education, and mental health. We have now reached, as has been said, successively reasonable agreements, both last week and this week. Definitely discussions will continue, a crisis like this will continue, a pandemic will not be lost anywhere. But it is beyond all our collective efforts, without the fact that we are going, as you described, merely a whip road. However, our aim is to support, encourage those who hesitate to help them to reach a health-conscious choice and, in the meantime, to reduce maximum contacts between both vaccinated and non-vaccinated people in order to generally reduce the risk of infection in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U59	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U60	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Many sisters in the Estonian Sisters' Association are overloaded. Never before have so many sisters thought about leaving the medical system. Yesterday, the sister's association sent a press statement to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and probably to you. That is why I am asking whether the government has any specific measures of this kind. What, then, does the government actually intend to do to alleviate the shortage of sisters and thus the workload of nurses? Secondly, [what is to be done] so that the money for health care reaches the workers, not the service providers, and that all people with nursing experience have the motivation and the ability to help resolve the current corona crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U61	Thank you. Once again, we must begin with a deep bow in front of all the sisters who are working overtime and, as I have pointed out, under overload. They did overtime before the pandemic and, unfortunately, they do some after the pandemic. Previously, my predecessors improved the nurses' reception in cooperation with the universities of health care. It is certainly our goal to increase it in universities of health care. Nurses are trained for three and a half years, which is why we consider that this so-called acute increase in the training of nurses in the crisis phase will not improve. But the healthcare system in general needs to be strengthened, so these are matters of medical residency or the admission volumes of health universities. I have also discussed this issue with the heads of both universities of health. They need to gain confidence in the payment of internship costs and, at the same time, in the provision of training orders in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. I know that the Minister for Education and Science clearly supports this, so I am optimistic that we will find the necessary solutions. Now and now, at a time of crisis, as I have pointed out, we have allocated additional resources in financial terms and, of course, we have asked many hospitals to help, including medical specialists in other areas, it is the Defence Forces, it is the private health sector, it is other service providers. Both during the previous wave, during the second wave, and today, they have been very helpful and supportive to at least some degree of support for recreational opportunities, reconciliation of work and family life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U62	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U63	Thank you. Corona and new strains migrate from country to country, and countries make different obstacles to this: though they ask for a corona passport or a negative test, they check and test people on the border. Estonia does nothing. Even during the last wave, when the situation in Russia was much worse, it does not do today either, in a situation where Latvia has been completely locked up for a long time and the situation is insane, but the border is open and everyone can move freely. There's no control at all. You yourself admitted that the situation was worse in South Estonia. After all, this is a clear consequence of the fact that Latvia has become a free country for people to come here. In today's situation, where there is already a strain of delta+, which is significantly more contagious, it will arrive sooner or later with this behaviour. What are you waiting for? Why don't you do something to protect our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U64	Thank you very much. In the current situation, the initial recommendation has been repeatedly made: of course, to reduce every possible journey, especially to the most exotic areas. We also know that these infections, which we always compare, may not be real life, they may be distorted. Unfortunately, they often do. For example, look at the number of people who test positive samples when they cross borders. This [the result] is often higher than the official distribution in that country would expect. Actually, we're testing at the borders, we're sequencing, we're checking what strains have come here, which strains have been detected. This cooperation goes on across Europe; the agreement is to send a certain amount there at all times. But I agree with you in this sense that border control and keeping travelling in the grip of action are reasonable at the moment, especially when travelling to exotic countries. Indeed, none of these strains have started in Estonia, and they will probably not be in the future, but they have been brought to us every time from elsewhere. The more and more they are brought, the faster this spread can get out of control again. But here you would also like to know that the main solution against this same strain delta+ is that you also referred to other circulating strains of the virus, the vaccination. This is the top priority. All others are supporting measures, are border control, testing, disrupting infection chains, fulfilling self-insulation obligations, masking or other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U65	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In August, it became clear that it was not possible to achieve herd immunity for the corona virus delta strain. In the current crisis, the aim of the government can no longer be to create livestock immunity, but to reduce the hospital burden. The hospitals are being burdened by older people, but yet we are channeling energy into vaccinating children, to restricting their movement. I mean, kids don't end up in a hospital. Their vaccination is an indirect measure, which reduces infection, but not excessively. Direct measures, i.e. vaccination of older people, should be vigorously addressed in order to reduce hospital loads. The current activity gives the impression that by vaccinating children, the government is trying to rebuild Potemkin village. Is the government still aiming to achieve a percentage of vaccination? Why are vaccinations of the most high-risk groups not equally vigorous rather than intensive vaccination of children?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U67	Thank you. In fact, looking at the vaccination numbers, we see that it is precisely in older age groups that we have a higher coverage, which has been our policy from the outset, and this so-called target and objective, which the Ministry of Social Affairs has been carrying and supporting with the Minister for Health at the head. Thank you very much, as I have pointed out, for family doctors and for all the health institutions that have followed the same principle. If there was a vaccine deficiency, there was also an argument as to why you inject the elderly, why you don't give it to everyone, if you remember. We always stood for the elderly, the risk groups in particular, and then the whole population later, if there is enough vaccine. Similarly, I said before that 70% of the population and 85% of the risk groups are considered by the Scientific Council to be a prerequisite for mitigating the restrictions. Perhaps both the elderly and other risk groups have a higher level. Even now, when we look at the current vaccination plan, we see that the aim is to cover 70% of the adult population with the first injection. We made it to about 95%. In the case of people with completed courses, the goal was to reach 2/3 at the end of October to 70%. At the end of November, we set a higher metric for the elderly: 60+80%. Today we are somewhere around 72%, we also hope to achieve as close to 80% as possible here, and over the year it is precisely this protection of risk groups that is higher. So I'm here on a boat with you. The main benefit of vaccination of children is that it helps to ensure a society that is more infectious for them as a whole, to ensure that they are able to receive hospital treatment for other cases of illness, other health problems which may be limited if the virus as a whole spreads too widely in the country and thus reaches older people. And, of course, keeping schools open. This is said directly by some countries that they know very well that the age group 12 to 17 is highly likely, if there are no chronic diseases and other concerns, to be the primary risk group in COVID-19's view, but because it is important to ensure contact training to maintain children's health, including mental health and education, that they are also offered and given vaccination to this age group. Estonia does the same, and the recommendation is based on it. Each injection helps, the elderly are the first priority, the adult population and the age group 12 to 17 are as follows:
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U68	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I think we are in the same position here that the vaccination of children is a family decision and must be respected, but the explanation work must continue. School break is about to end, and the most acute issue for parents today is what happens next week. You can read from the media that Mr. Kõlvart says that schools in Tallinn are going to distance education. The position of the Government of the Republic is that there is no distance learning; schools must be reopened and moved forward with learning in the ordinary form. Have you made a call to the Speaker, asked him why he's acting like this? Why is there such a communication crisis in the midst of this great crisis? How do you plan to solve this in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U70	Thank you. In vaccinating children, of course, when we talk about smaller ones who do not yet have a full understanding, it is the parent who should give this advice in particular. The family doctor will assess whether the person is able to decide for himself or not, or [will do so] by another healthcare professional. When we talk about the gymnasts, whom we allow, for example, to vote in local elections, they obviously have greater discretion. But there are no age limits in the law, and it depends on the person's own ability to assess the need for health care, the advantages and disadvantages involved, to consider everything else, and the evaluator is the health professional. As regards school distance learning and contact training, this is a reality. Just as we now have a number of schools, a number of regions where distance learning is taking place, this will continue to be a reality. This objective, which the government has set, is to ensure infectious training, to do so by testing and vaccination, other support measures and safety measures. But the fact that there are no municipalities, no regions, no levels of school that continue to apply distance learning is unfortunately a reality as long as this pandemic continues. As I have said before and repeat, we can all contribute as adults. I agree with you in this sense that if we had an adult vaccination of one hundred percent, we should not be talking at all about the vaccination of minors. Then we would focus only on the part of those at risk or otherwise at risk. But in a situation where we are not really there and we know that hospital care is high, we need to vaccinate everyone if there is a corresponding marketing authorisation and these vaccines have been declared safe and effective for them. In doing so, each child will also contribute to the protection of his/her own interests, in order to ensure that society is more open and that he/she can participate in contact training. I understand that I am repeating myself, but vaccination is a sustainable way to ensure contact learning in society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U71	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U72	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have two questions. Do you continue to believe that vaccinated people who may be infectious do not need to test themselves or remain [insulation] when they have been exposed to a virus carrier, a sick person? If so, please explain why. The second question I have is this. The Prime Minister has said that you will take political responsibility when the burden on hospitals reaches the critical limit. President of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas has said that you have not said that. Which one is telling the truth, and which one is lying? Or is it that you believe that the burden on hospitals has not reached a critical point in a situation where scheduled treatment and paramedics are being restricted? Maybe you can comment and explain it to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U73	Thank you. Let's start with the last one, because it seems like a more exciting subject. I have really said that my role and my job as Minister for Health is to ensure the continuity of hospitals, to support them, to do the best we can, of course, to avoid their overload. In this view, I have also admitted that the forecasts presented two weeks ago, as at 11 October, were much more optimistic than the actual picture. The situation has deteriorated about twice as fast, is [cause] the spread of the delta strain and an even higher risk of infection, or is the result of in-hospital lesions. There's a little bit of one, a little bit of another. But in any case, we need to get to the limit right now. There can no longer be such a rapid growth phase. I have said just as I have emphasised. It's my responsibility to ensure the continuity of hospitals, to do my best. Today, as I have pointed out, is the hardest thing in the South. In the northern region, the situation is still somewhat better, although it is also deteriorating there. In the case of planned treatment, hospitals across the country will do their best to ensure maximum coverage. Understandably, this is more difficult and complicated at the University of Tartu Hospital, where the top of the previous wave has essentially been achieved. The situation in hospitals where the number of patients is significantly lower than in the second wave is somewhat milder and easier. Those are the sentences I've been saying. But you also had the first part of the question that I could lose. Maybe it's possible to repeat it, if that's okay. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, that's right! I mean, in the case of vaccinated individuals, as I was referring to, if there are any symptoms, it is absolutely necessary to test them. There is no obligation for close contact, although it makes sense to work remotely where possible, it makes sense to reduce contacts. Let's just say that I guess we've all gotten some sort of positive reports when we were vaccinated ourselves that someone at a meeting or somewhere else has turned out to be positive. I've always tested myself after this, with a quick test or any other way to make sure you're safe from infection, somewhat reduced contacts. But such a golden rule, there is no obligation, it is rather an example of [exposing] place, it is rather also a place of self-monitoring, a place of more attentive behaviour. Of course, we know that the risk is lower, but this risk is not zero and every risk must be mitigated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U74	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U75	Thank you. Dear Minister, A few weeks ago, you said 700 people weren't coming to the hospital. You were very confident. Indeed, some predictions may have shown this, but they were obviously wrong and, frankly, they had to be wrong. If we have had R consistently over 1 since July and we have 25,00080+ people unvaccinated, it is clear that although hospitalization levels are lower than in the spring due to higher vaccinations, in the end the hospitals will lose sight. It's happening now. I don't think you're gonna say 700 isn't gonna get drunk in any case. But at the same time, your story today and the relatively empty talk of the Prime Minister on Monday have the impression that you still feel that it is somehow going down in magically itself. In fact, there is only one way to ensure the continuity of hospitals, which is the responsibility of the government: to reduce the rate of infection to less than 1 very quickly. I would like to know what these real, concrete, very fast steps are to achieve this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U76	Thank you. All of us must continue to work to ensure that the number of hospital care patients does not exceed 700. Today's projections really show this, these projections are valid under the assumption, as you rightly said, that R0 stays above 1, that the infection chains are growing, that the infection circle is growing. In this view, I agree with you halfway, half doesn't. In order to avoid the burden of hospital care, both need to be dealt with in parallel: R0 to get less than 1 and higher vaccination coverage, which is something you will agree with. They're connected. Vaccination also helps to lower R0. But if we are able to focus on target groups, such as nursing homes, where the situation is significantly better than previous waves, it will actually help to reduce hospital care burden significantly faster than directly R0 because the vaccination of nursing workers mainly serves to protect their lives and health. You're asking what the government is doing. I mentioned earlier that we have actually taken steps earlier this week. I'm not going to repeat them, I think you all know them. Today's government office sits in real time with the Science Advisory Board and the Health Board from 10 in the morning: it is an extension of masking, organisation of testing in schools, or a reduction and limitation of entertainment activities. More teleworking advice was given earlier. As I have pointed out, there is a place where, on a voluntary basis, we should all think about what these additional steps are. What is the minimum package, that is what the government has said in advance, what is the maximum package, that is what each of us knows. How much distance work can we do, how many events can we cancel, whether we have been vaccinated ourselves, whether we have convinced our relatives, family members, loved ones, workmates? Mathematically, we are in a situation where it is enough for two people, such as myself and you, to agree and persuade one person to vaccinate themselves and so the entire population will be vaccinated. We are in a situation where 70% must be able to convince 30% of adults to defend themselves. This is actually the solution to this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U77	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U78	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We have a crisis. No one will deny it. But we do not only have a corona crisis, but we already have a huge mental health, despair and perhaps a suicide crisis in the very near future among those people who, on the basis of a risk analysis established by the government, have come into a situation where public sector, business, defence, medical systems are being completely legally fired from all sides, only and only for the reason that they have not been vaccinated. By the way, they no longer even receive the services of an unemployment fund for that reason. Why does the government stand only for people who are threatened by the Corona, but not for people who lose absolutely everything in life because of the methods chosen by the government? Why are you not standing up for the civil and fundamental rights of these people, but trampling on these rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U79	Thank you. There were several false claims in the question. Let's take it in a row. Firstly, these risk analyses are prepared by employers for a specific job. The government has not imposed a vaccination obligation in any area of life, nor has the Riigikogu made any changes to the law. In fact, it would actually be within the competence of the Riigikogu if we talked about it. The fact that several public authorities, including in the field of health care, have done so, I think, for example, in Tallinn Ambulance, is correct. To ensure the continuity of the activity of Tallinn's ambulance, the vaccinated workers are guaranteed to reduce the risk of infection. At the same time, of course, we stand up for the whole society. Look at these restrictions, actions, control rules. We guarantee everyone the opportunity to participate in education. We have given employers the opportunity, on the basis of their own risk analysis, to choose which ways to reduce the risk of infection: it is a vaccination or a breakthrough, in particular, testing, masking, other such solutions. We have not said in advance to employers that there is only one solution now. Of course, vaccination is the most sustainable, but there are alternatives to using evidence or negative testing, combining these measures with masking, dispersal and everything else. See also unemployment figures. It's not like they've risen drastically, it's the other way around. Gradually, we are working to ensure that the unemployment rate in society falls. As I have emphasised and emphasised, education, recreational education and recreational activities should all be part of, regardless of their vaccination or infirmity. This is what the previous government was working for, the current government has worked for and will continue to work for. The mental health concerns are certainly not underestimated; the risk of their worsening is the greater the longer this crisis is going to last. The sooner we emerge from the crisis, the less frustration, the less confrontation in society. Here we should all give the same message, a common message, so that the residents of Estonia can contact the health care professional. Family doctors and family nurses expect these calls and give them vaccinations. The sooner we reach a health-conscious choice, the faster we emerge from the crisis, and the less we need to discuss whether and where any further restrictions are imposed and how it will affect the mental health of one person or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U80	Thank you very much. Now it is time for questions and answers; I cannot take the next question. We can go to the third report. The presentation by Le Vallikiv, the chairman of the board of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, lasts 20 minutes and is followed by 30 minutes of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U81	Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning from me too! I'm a little confused about why I've been invited here. But I am very happy to share with you what is happening on the primary level and how we move forward with vaccination. In fact, I would also share that this is actually a crisis for all of us, my crisis and the crisis for all of you sitting in the Chamber. It's about every one of us. We are not just talking about health; we are also talking about the social environment, our country as a whole. I really do not want our country to become a country whose one of the main outputs is to be a large health plant, where we will eliminate the consequences of bad health decisions that we could actually have avoided. It concerns each of us very deeply, and we each actually have the one millimeter that Professor Peep Talving talked about, with which we can alleviate this crisis. Listening to today's conversation, I got a little sad in the sense that, in fact, a lot depends on how we look at these things. As family doctors, we could also recall all the bad or wrong that has happened during this crisis and recall what happened on 27 December, 19 April or 7 July. But it doesn't give us anything. The key to this crisis is that we live in a very changing information room. Yeah, we're still scaring things that are different today than they were yesterday, which is different today than they were on 23 September. I will put my hand to my heart and say that as our family doctors, we too were very frightened when our two-dose fully vaccinated colleagues began to get sick at the end of July or early August. Yeah, they got sick easy, but it was also a shock for us that we had to live with. In some ways, however, we still have a breather. We can't turn fate around now because those people who get sick today are gonna be in hospital in two weeks and clogging hospitals, clogging the family doctor centers as well. But we can do damage control, and that's what we've actually started in a non-profit organization. Last week we managed to reach an agreement with the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs that this campaign would come. In fact, by the end of September, 60% of the family medical centres that vaccinate are not enough for us. It's not enough for us. It has been said that we also have other tasks, that everyone is tired, that we cannot or do not want or that our hands hurt. We said no, we all have to vaccinate, all family doctors' centres must vaccinate throughout Estonia. They need to get the impetus to get the vaccine in place even if they've ignored the ordering notice. It's actually working really well, no one's sent the vaccine back. The number of family medical centres actively sending vaccination reports had already multiplied by yesterday. I hope these ten days are actually just the beginning. I hope that these ten days will actually have tangible results, and I hope that people will also contact themselves. Perhaps some family medicine centres are a little discouraged by speeches, which resulted in a grudge in spring, summer and early autumn. But by making these speeches myself yesterday, I actually sensed that the attitude had changed even for the most skeptical people. They're kind of sorry about the medical system, like they've made that decision. No one was aggressive, but they said no, I still don't want to, I mean. But no one ever minded. So if we can vaccinate at least one person, including all of you today, this is actually your very large bet and a very large millimeter. Medical students are involved in contacting on a voluntary basis, and the telephone centre is a contract partner of the Health Insurance Fund. Yeah, 15,000 calls and 600 people to vaccinate. Sounds like it's not enough, but it's actually a lot. That's 600 more people vaccinated. After all, as doctors, we still see that the disease is very insidious. This morning I was able to make a little reception and review the results of yesterday's tests. The six-year-old who had COVID last October is again positive today, in November. The immunocompromised boy who has received an efficacy dose is positive. One of the kidney transplanted patients was also positive, now healing. At the same time, I have a 40-year-old, previously healthy woman who has been in high fever for two or three weeks at the COVID reception tonight, and I will consider every time we make another appointment, whether or not the hospital border is now in place. At the same time, I also see that the issue of different worlds is still topical. At the same reception this morning, a young unvaccinated lady came to me for the second time during the week, whose great concern was that she thinks that she has a little too much hair in the morning. It's a reality for him. I really don't want to be mean or rude to any human being, but I'm afraid it's a short grace period if we can have a first-level conversation with these people for ten minutes, vaccinate and receive COVID-positive patients tonight. If we can do it, we can go to the theater after that, where we are unfortunately seeing a lot of people without a mask. Then I can wonder if they'd be without a mask if they knew I was coming straight from the reception of COVID patients. I don't care if I fall asleep in that theater by accident, but some kind of aerosol I'm still releasing through my mask. We see that the time, unfortunately, has already come for those who are vaccinated to make these compromises. The same school students, who have actually been vaccinated over half of them without more screaming and screaming and screaming and effort, all of them remain at home in the fourth to eighth grade. Teachers, many of whom have also been vaccinated, must also go to distance training and close the educational gap through the screen. It's hard for all of us. We have to make difficult choices, and sometimes we have to argue with each other in such a way that the neck sweats, that goes with it. But there's less and less time to argue. In this sense, it is very difficult if this dispute is not constructive but rather destructive and focuses on the past or the world system that revolves around the sun without thinking about what will happen in the future. The consequences of the decisions we make together, we must live together. I will see how we have three key agencies for the crisis: TECHNOLOGY, Health Board and Medicines Agency, in the medical view without a head or head. I wonder whether the same criticism, whatever they did or did not do, may be the reason why the leaders of these agencies went and why it is so difficult to find new candidates there. It may also be you or our millimeter, to find the person who can endure all of this and move forward calmly but firmly. In this sense, I still have respect for Tanel Kiig, who has been able to maintain and maintain the respect and respect of the sector as well. The fact that we are seeing the "Actual Camera" decisions that were made yesterday or today when, in September, it might still upset us, I fear that in November it will become normal, because the time for such long discussions and speech meetings will simply be over. As a doctor, we often give advice that is unpleasant or unpopular for a person. I want the courage of all of you to make these decisions together, and I also want the capacity of cooperation between the state and the local authorities to make the necessary and joint decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U82	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U83	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. But if this efficiency is now, I calculated 15,000 calls at 600, 4%, remember to the big hall, you once told us in the Special Committee that in the summer or spring an order was given when the missing Mr. Seer led the troops to rest your feet, the family doctors, that these great campaigns would come and... How was that stuff? Have these signals been conflicting and could have been gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U84	Once again, I come back to the same subject that I touched on in my speech. In this situation, this excruciating and incessant reminder of who said this or the other at the time or at that time, or whether the family doctors were offended, and how did it feel about them after what happened in the autumn, it is not currently relevant. I mean, we're back, we're needed, we're vaccinating. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U85	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U86	Thank you. Dear waitress, You said at the beginning of your speech that you do not know why you have been invited here. But personally, I am very pleased that you are here because, as a medic, you are at the heart of this crisis with your patients. I'm about to say that our party is fully supportive of the medical team and highly appreciative of your hard work. I'll get back to the vaccination. Indeed, you have in your hands the key that should tilt our society in all decisions relating to vaccinations to make the right choices. As our politicians, decisions concerning individual human health cannot be made. That's just the way it is. But my question still concerns the future of people who, for reason or for reason, have decided not to vaccinate. Because of the government's August regulation, these people lose their jobs and also their health insurance. They're falling out of your sight and the support of the entire medical system. You can no longer help them if they become ill with other diseases because of this social injustice. As a doctor, how do you view the future of these people? How does that make you feel as a doctor?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U87	In this sense, as a doctor, I must say that these people are guaranteed help when they are ill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U88	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U89	Thank you. Good waitress! Several top politicians have argued that family doctors have not recommended one or the other vaccine or [have recommended] no vaccination at all. I don't think politicians have the right to keep their skin that way, but that's that. How common is this attitude among family doctors to warn the patient, or how do you say the client is seriously not to vaccinate? After all, many of these risk percentages have been published. Is it possible that there's a serious attitude among family doctors that they say you might get in trouble, you might have a fever, don't vaccinate?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U90	After all, there are studies that say that the patient is able to memorize about 10% of what the doctor tells him during the visit. Since when we advise the person on vaccination, we must tell him openly what advocates and promotes vaccination, as well as the places of risk, adverse reactions and interactions, I am afraid that it is still largely because a person in many ways hears what he wants to hear. If we have colleagues who say that vaccines are bullshit, I would say that there is a very marginal number among Estonian 800 family doctors. I hope so. We'd like to hear about them all, and the Health Board would like to hear about them, too. This is completely unacceptable, and that is why we and our COVID group have given regular briefings to all family doctors. Both the Prime Minister and Tanel Kiik participated in the final Question Time. We also talk openly about our strategies and tactics, which are vaccines with- and side effects, how to do, when to do, who to do, what risks to consider. There were practically 1,000 family doctors and family nurses, so that we could all be familiar with such fresh and unbiased information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U91	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm asking you about the vaccination. A woman such as Antonina Järviste, a lifetime epidemiologist, now retired, has said that vaccination during the high period of the disease does not produce the desired effect and is actually criminal because it creates new strains. It's all written down, even in the first year of medical training, it's all taught. My question is whether you will give a positive assessment or a negative assessment of what you have learned at this school, or whether you might say that Tanel Kiik has failed with his propaganda on vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U93	With all due respect, I must say that this lady has been known for her speeches for the last 10 to 15 years, and not only for the corona vaccine, but also for diphtheria, tetanus, polio, pertussis and all other vaccines. Let me stay a little skeptical.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U94	A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U95	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. I asked a specific question, and if the waitress is on the remote, she should answer the question either yes or no. I don't care about Skeptic, I want an answer. If a respected waitress comes to this remote control, she must answer questions from members of the Riigikogu and not express her personal opinion. I'd still ask him to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U96	Good fellow Kalle Grünthal! We know it very well with you that a member of the Riigikogu asks and from this Riigikogu speech chair either a member of the Riigikogu, a member of the government, a member of the constitutional institution or, in this case, a guest responds. We're currently discussing OTRK, and we have to take into account that in that sense, the guest responds as he sees fit. I'm certainly not getting involved in this. I think I understand the substance of your question, but I also want to say that if a guest is not a politician, please consider this. It's my idea. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U97	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr Jüri Ratas, for explaining that he is not a politician. But I'm not asking a political question, I'm actually asking a question about his specialty. So...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U98	Got it. Thank you. The questioner answered exactly as he thought was right. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Le Vallikiv, a lot of strength for you and for all of us! Medical workers have been dealing with the pandemic since the first day, and during this time two governments have taken different measures in Estonia to prevent, control, help cure the disease. But, of course, our knowledge of COVID has grown a lot in the meantime, both here and around the world. It is said that wisdom always comes in retrospect and, unfortunately, it will no longer do any good, but still. What can we do differently now, and what can we do better tomorrow by fighting this disease by learning from our common potential mistakes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U100	Indeed, this disease teaches us absolutely every day. According to today's knowledge, we can vaccinate from the age of 12, we can wash our hands, we can wear masks, we can keep distance, and we can balance on this delicate outline that distinguishes freedoms from obligations and normal life from the lockdown of society. That's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U101	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Chairman of the Board of Family Doctors Le Vallikivi! As a representative of the younger generation's medical team, you are probably very well trained, and you also have experience in primary medicine. Are you now so kind as to make three recommendations to the people of different generations in Estonia, which must be done to protect yourself and to promote this preservation in any way in all people? You've had good experience, I'm sure you're worse than that, but I want you to come up with these suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U103	Thank you, of course, for the compliment. I think I'm a middle-aged medical professional with a 20-year-old experience. But nevertheless, when we talk about three recommendations, these are: hold each other, count on each other, vaccinate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U104	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U105	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is a little professional. The Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis gave available scientific data, stressing that, on the basis of scientific data, already in July this year, a recommendation to take account of the positive outcome of the antibody test as a COVID-19 breakthrough. I ask what your opinion, as a doctor, is whether this recommendation from the Committee of Experts is adequate and should be taken into account and whether it would be reasonable to give an annual guarantee to those suffering from COVID disease in the same way as those who are vaccinated, instead of six months. All the people in the medical community have confirmed that penetration gives greater immunity than vaccination. If there really are antibodies that are measurable, then we could spend our energy and resources on the vaccination of unvaccinated people and those who have not broken through, not on those who already have antibodies. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U106	Thank you. Let's just say it's still a position that different doctors and experts are arguing about, so it's sweaty on the neck. First of all, when we measure these antibodies and what the result must be, to say that this person is now and now under the protection of the infirmity, isn't it? In my own modest practice, the two thousand list has repeatedly had patients, and the difference may not be 12 months, right? We can't afford that right now. I mean, if I do this test either in January, February, March or October, right, where does this 12 months tick, where is this titre, do I have to keep measuring that antibody level? In this sense, it is also a question where time must tell us what is the right answer, right? Today we do not know the answer, that is what the immunoprophylaxis committee says. But we have to keep looking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U107	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, dear waitress. Good luck in your work! I think you are in the right place today, because the Estonian Parliament sometimes needs such a doctor's visit. If we can take 10% of this place, I think it's really good. Unfortunately, there are few patients in the hall, but they're probably listening to us further away. My question to you comes from this area, that you are indeed in direct contact with all this social organisation through these different conversations and with your patients. Do you think it is right and inevitable today to send schools, as has been decided by Tallinn and Pärnu, to distance learning? This is what families have been very afraid of and tried to avoid. Now there may be depression, which may not be good in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U109	Yes, it is actually very difficult for me, both as a doctor and as a mother, to hear. It's about my kids, too. In this sense, all the more so because as a society, we have made quite a lot of efforts and discussions to agree on these measures to keep schools open. The current decision was very robust when we talk about Tallinn. All of them, whether vaccinated or unvaccinated, regardless of school. I'm not very happy about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U110	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U111	Thank you. Dear Le Vallikiv, I thank you very much for this presentation and thank you very much for the work you are doing. But, as you yourself mentioned, the information we receive from all sides is extremely contradictory. I have a question for you as a doctor. The same third dose is approved in the same way, it is said to be necessary to prevent infection. But on the other hand, we have also had articles in the press from well - known specialists and doctors who write that it is not really necessary to keep this antibody level so high. Even if it falls down, these antibodies will actually remain in the body, and if a person gets infected, they will grow again and the levels will rise. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U112	If, on 4 October, our immunoprophylaxis experts decided that the efficacy dose is indicated for all frontier workers, 65+ people and, in the long term, for those people who are more than 180 days past vaccination, then I am very much in favour of it. This COVID can become exactly the same in the long term seasonal flu, for which we get injections every autumn and especially not murmuring. I cannot forget, too, that thanks to the openness of society, it is thanks to the fact that the flu has already officially arrived in Estonia. In the sense that the more we can prevent and prevent, the less we have to deal with the consequences afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U113	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U114	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Vallikivi, for being here today. I join all previous speakers in saying that listening to you is absolutely necessary. First of all, a compliment to the family doctors, because I think that it is the family doctors who are doing a very big job of keeping people healthy, both in this epidemic and in all other times, be preventive, be it by monitoring sick people and helping them. In this connection, I have the question, especially in view of the current situation: what resources do you lack? Where do you see that we, as a country, can come to the aid of family doctors, so that your work is more effective, so that you can reach all the people on your list? Perhaps these [quantities] could be smaller? What is it that you need first and foremost?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U115	Thank you. Really, I'd be lying if I told you that our work isn't complicated right now. We have dozens of people in families who are being treated at home, and we have to keep on guard. The resources [would] probably require the same new health professionals, right, which we do not suddenly have to take out of the factory. We see exhaustion among doctors and sisters. We see that this customary holiday, 28 days, does not restore strength, an extra week of rest takes as much as water in the sand. In this sense, we could certainly have additional human resources. We have a lot of volunteers, but as in the "Actual Camera" yesterday, an intensive worker said: in order to teach this person to work and handle sensitive personal data, it takes time, which is often difficult to find in a day where there are ordinary sick, vaccinates and coronal sufferers. In this sense, it's like a vicious circle, isn't it, that we can't teach at the same time when we need help with human resources? But if this crisis stays with us any longer, then we must somehow replay these resources again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U116	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U117	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Mrs Le Vallikivi, Dr Le Vallikivi! Thank you very much for bringing the voice of the family doctors to this hall and to all the family doctors who belong there! Thank you very much for your performance here today, and also for always producing input from family doctors in the Committee on Social Affairs. My question concerns mental health. The chronic virus crisis has been going on for a long time, and people probably have mental health problems in addition to this disease, both older and younger, and why not middle-aged. How do you feel about the increase in your workload here, and what do you see about the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U118	Yes, it is one of the side effects of this crisis. We see that there are significantly more people with mental health problems in all age groups: children, young people, middle-aged, older people, people who have lost their loved ones or lost their health or all material or lost everything that has been important in life. We also see that we are in decline in the availability of services that we really need quickly and much, right when we talk about clinical psychologists when we talk about mental health nurses when we talk about child psychiatrists when we talk about psychologists and psychiatrists that are also focused on the problems of older people. What is positive is that stigma's mental health problems have started to cool off during this crisis. It's not weird anymore when you say you're burned out, you're angry, you don't care about anything, you don't want to do anything, you cry all day long, you don't come out of bed. But sometimes we get a first-level lack of strength. Yeah, we can be the first gate opener, but where we open this gate, if it's like ordering up to this same clinical psychologist, I stress that a person has to wait months and that order, if no one else is to turn down a needy person, will last for months. There are many more of these patients, and they are much more complicated. We really need coherence with other disciplines to help these people better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U119	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you also for your part. Since this virus is a mutating strain, fighting it is a bit like shooting a moving target. That virus isn't what it was tomorrow. You've already actually answered the question that I was prepared to ask, is this virus what's going to be in our midst? But I'm going to ask you two more specific questions. Do we expect about two waves each year, spring and autumn in the coming years? In what direction could the virus continue to mutate: Will it become more contagious, become more fatal, or less fatal? What is the medical view of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U121	Thank you. When we have an open society, we do not have two waves a year, but still one that lasts from October to June. Is the virus mutating? Yeah, he's mutating, but scientists have said the delta strain is one of the strongest maps this virus has ever been able to develop. He hasn't been able to think of any worse than that in a long time. It gives some hope. But since I'm not a psychic, I really can't tell you how it's really going to go and whether it's killing even more efficiently or spreading even better. But I hope I'd rather not. But the fact that he comes every year, we've had our own experience. Indeed, in June 2020, we were very skeptical that no, of course there will be no second wave or anything, right? But the third came and the third came. In this sense, I'd rather be moderately pessimistic than optimistic, I don't think he'll one day just pick up and disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U122	President Le Vallikiv, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, thank you for your presentation and I thank you for your answers. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U123	I thank you. I thank you for your very good questions, support and good wishes to the medical team. I'm sure I'll take them from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U124	Please really send the best wishes of the entire Riigikogu to family doctors and other medical staff. Let's move on. We've been through all the reports. As the Special Committee on State Budget Control has requested, and as the OTRK debate provides for, it is now time for negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. I would say so much that the Special Committee on State Budget Control has asked us first to speak with the representatives of the political groups. That's what I'm talking about. I would like to ask Evgeni Ossinovski, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it's embarrassing. Embarrassing and painful about where we've been led for the second time in a year. It is absolutely incredible that, in a situation where these mistakes have already been made, we have seen what comes with indecision, skating, confusing, conflicting messages, which we saw in the spring, when we have seen what it cost, severe restrictions for months, and an additional budget of EUR 700 million, we have now been led back to the edge of the abyss in the same year. What did we hear about this situation today? The government discusses, the government has different opinions and discussions. Right now, real time is being discussed. Do you understand? We have projections. We are currently on the plane to Tallinn. You've forgotten, we've forgotten all the pictures from Bergamo Hospital. That's the direction we're going. Since July, there hasn't been a rate of infection below 1, she's always been over 1. The virus foon is now the highest in history. The Minister admitted that he has been guided by obscurant predictions which have not taken into account that the change in our testing strategy, which was highlighted here today, actually underestimates how much infection we have. There's a whole bunch of people who get a positive result on a quick test, but they don't go for a test because of it. They do it perfectly logically and rationally. But they're sick. The virus is much higher because of them. We also know exactly that there has been a very significant change compared to spring, a great deal has been done with private tests, travel, etc., with a positive share of 1%. They've been put in there, too. If we take them out, it's actually going to be a greater number of positives. With all this in mind, we have 20% positive tests today, with 30% among school students in October. We are, in fact, at a critical point in our hospital capacity. By the way, in March, when we had [this indicator] 730, R went down 1 actually already ten days earlier, before that. So to talk about not knowing whether 700 will arrive or not, I don't know, some kind of miracle has to happen so it doesn't come to 700. We are, however, operating with real forecasts. If we can quickly get to R, these are Mario's Gadic projections, you can get to know them under 1, we'll be able to go down that map somewhere from 705, but there's very little time for that, because there's going to be 800 and 900 and there's going to be 1,000. And it's gonna be 1,000! Then we are not talking about the fact that we cannot provide scheduled treatment. How is it possible that we have actually done this again to our medics and other people? Prime Minister, absolutely unbelievable, says he doesn't understand why a majority should be surrounded because of a minority. Oh, I'm sorry! It is the principle of society that we behave in such a way as to increase the overall good. That's one. Secondly, because it ultimately concerns the majority of those who are vaccinated at the moment. Because, of course, the Coronal has, as they like to say, visible and invisible victims. It is, no doubt. Now the scheduled treatment has been withdrawn. In the first half of the year, Dr. Talving told us about 21,000 people without being treated. We are moving at least until Christmas at the same stage, where scheduled treatment cannot be restored in the same way. And then there are disputes: wait, don't know whether the mayor of Tallinn was acting reasonably or not when he was 4. Sent her class for a week of distance training. Well, then, offer adequate national leadership! Offer it! Of course, it should be offered not only in Tallinn but also elsewhere. This week, 85+ infections have increased by 128% compared to the previous age group. This is in a situation where 25,000 elderly people are not vaccinated. That's our position today. And we're discussing that, look, we don't know if the vaccinated should wear a mask in the theater or not. Come on, get down on the ground! This is the disaster that awaits us. What did we [know] of? From the Prime Minister [we were informed] on Monday and today: we need to increase the effectiveness of vaccination, we are working from morning to evening to promote vaccination, there are many different things that have already been done and are still in work, and there are still many different things in the debate that are all going to promote vaccination. Look, if you've already jumped off the ship without a life jacket, it's great to remember that you should have brought it with you, but it's too late. It'll be too late. Vaccination must, of course, be promoted and, of course, it is the only solution in the long term. But at the moment, even tomorrow, if we take all our people who are not vaccinated today to vaccinate, the hospital crisis is still acute, because immunity simply doesn't arise so quickly. So in order to avoid this, there is really nothing more to do than the inevitable need for contact-reducing restrictions. That's where we've come from as a result of bad leadership. Vaccination errors have been going on since spring, they have been drawn to the attention hundreds of times in this room, and there has actually been no action against them other than talking with an ever greater density that, dear people, go to the vaccination. Well, great, those who listened to it have already done it. A little bit short and a little too late. Two weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that the opposition did not have any proposals. There's no suggestion! We made suggestions. Do you think anyone in the government has contacted to discuss these proposals? Nobody. Nobody! Has anyone in the government really discussed with the political groups of the Riigikogu what we could do together? The Social Democrats called for: friends, it is our joint responsibility, we have different visions of it, we have different weather visions, whatever, some also political technology, but the crisis is at hand, we have a common crisis, we can agree, we will agree on a package of measures and we will put these differences aside for a moment. Did anyone respond to that call? No! We heard this fine one-sided talk here on Monday and today from the Minister for Social Affairs, but there is no really agreed plan of action, but there is no common plan to do in order to get over this. But it's being discussed. It is discussed, all the time discussed, infinitely discussed. Well, really, it's just painful and embarrassing because of the state we've put health professionals in. It's no joke. We had 700 last time. We were close to the critical limit in terms of workers, and today it's lower. People are overworked, they don't want to go there anymore, they don't go there, people don't want to go to the Coronary Departments for money anymore. You can understand that. It's very dirty and hard work. The Minister of Social Affairs says yes, his job is to ensure the continuity of hospitals. Well, hospital executives can guarantee it on their own. The hospital manager doesn't need politicians to work well at the hospital. Hospital managers are good, great, and so are medical personnel. What the government is obliged to do is implement an unambiguous package to quickly get the infection coefficient below 1. It is the only way to avoid disaster and it must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U126	Thank you very much. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by the party of the Isamaa Party, as well as the chairman of the party. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U127	Thank you. I'll have eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U128	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U129	Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, at the same time, we are experiencing two crises in the country, which are amplifying each other. On the one hand, the health crisis, which has been so much talked about, the spread of the infection is at the highest level that it has ever been. Hospitals are already in charge today can be said to exceed the critical limit. We're taking emergency measures, reducing the planned treatment. At the same time, this is a governance crisis, to which a great deal has been referred here too. The government has been behind the times, has relied on incorrect forecasts or has clearly underestimated the danger situation and has not drawn conclusions from its previous mistakes. Decisions are late, decisions are postponed or decisions are not forthcoming at all. And when decisions come, they are largely illogical, incomprehensible and inadequate. The wrong risk assessment and failing to draw conclusions from it are extremely regrettable, because we do not learn from our mistakes. I don't agree with those who say let's not look into the past. We need to see exactly what happened during the first wave, which we then did, what we decided to learn from these mistakes. But unfortunately, we have not learned from these mistakes. What do I mean by illogical decisions? Still, if we call on people to vaccinate what is necessary, which is clearly necessary because it allows the disease to suffer more easily, probably less infection and reduce the burden on hospitals, then the government itself must create such a trusty bond that people would like to come [to be vaccinated]. Then the government calls for authority. Today, this authority is no longer there. Vaccination alone is limited. I do not understand why we do not want to prevent the spread of the infection by testing vaccinated people who are infectious when they have been exposed to the sick so that we extend the requirement of close contact to them, just as it is for unvaccinated people. Why are we creating a situation in society where some have the privilege of spreading infection and others do not have that privilege? We're in a critical situation. There's no logical reason why we're doing this. In answering my question today, too, the Minister for Health and Labour said: yes, it makes sense that these people remain in close contact with [insulation], it makes sense, but we do not apply this reasonable approach as an order, we do not apply it in this critical situation. I don't understand why we're not doing this. The test has also been discussed for several months. The Minister of Health and Labour has always been very skeptical about testing, has said that tests are unreliable, which requires testing by trained health professionals. At the same time, the Minister of Education says that every five-year-old child is capable of carrying out this test. What, then, is the government's attitude and attitude toward tests? We have repeatedly proposed mass testing to test people who have suffered from the disease. Now, several months later, in this critical situation, we still come to a test. This is announced by the government on one working day before the next school break begins. One day there will be time to prepare those involved, schoolkeepers, schools, teachers, and everyone else. How do these tests get to schools, how are tests carried out, how are students who receive a positive test isolated immediately on site, how do they get home and so on? There's a weekend for this organizational side. Then we wonder that things do not work as they should, and we are not satisfied with the situation. This is an obvious leadership crisis. What is public policy? Is it possible to move public education policy to local governments? The Minister of Education says that we are not going to national distance learning, while the largest local government in Estonia, competitively, makes a very quick decision that Tallinn is going to in corpore distance learning. What, then, is this general approach throughout the education system? Are these effects very different? I don't understand. In Tallinn it is decided to go to distance training in all schools. It creates a different situation in teaching and gives some competitive advantage over others, some lag behind, others do not. At the same time, we know that there is going to be a Lotte show in Saku Suurhall, with 5,000 children and parents coming to Saku Suurhall. Let us see if the decisions that are made and the restrictions that are made are systemic and adequate so that they can be understood in such a way that restrictions are really wanted and effective. These illogical and incomprehensible decisions are the reason why people are critical, why there is also skepticism about decisions taken by the government. Do the parties have any suggestions and cooperation? The opposition is ready for cooperation, the opposition is waiting for cooperation. But these unilateral speeches from the Prime Minister on Monday and today from the Minister for Health and Labour show that this willingness and willingness to cooperate with the opposition is not really there. When we asked about possible decisions being discussed in the government today, the Minister of Health and Labour replied that he knew, but did not say. This is not a call for cooperation and willingness to cooperate. I agree that the logical governance scheme is that there is a Parliament that is involved in a special committee we did not want to set up, then there is a government, there are ministers, there are authorities that should implement it. In parallel with this, it seems unreasonable to create such a party-based korona management or management scheme. We are still doing this within the framework of the institutions provided for by the Constitution and by the laws. These are Parliament and the Government. I would very much like our proposals to be taken seriously and taken into account, all the more so as the proposals that have been made have finally proved to be what the government is forced to implement several months later. Last thing, the vaccination damage fund. I have asked the Prime Minister several times whether it is reasonable to implement it. This has been done in many European countries, and it has justified itself in Finland. The answer is left in the air: perhaps this would be misunderstood, it would be concluded that there are so many vaccination lesions and side effects. Come on, are the Finns stupid? Are the countries that have implemented it stupid? I don't think so. So let's listen and make these trusting connections. In particular, anti-vaccinating is also needed in order to build trust that the country will also participate in the consequences that may be undesirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U130	Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Siret Kotka. Please! Also extra time. How much, a minute, two or three? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U131	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good guys in the hall! The above speakers gave a comprehensive overview of the situation in COVID-19. As a representative of the Centre Party Group, I would like to make a certain amount of emphasis. In Estonia, all possible means of vaccination have been created, i.e. all those who wish to receive the injection will have the opportunity to receive the injection. The government has also taken a number of measures to alleviate the situation. For example, sickness days are reimbursed from the second day. Unvaccinated people at risk are personally contacted on the phone. In different areas of Estonia, vaccine buses offer the possibility of being vaccinated close to home. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, is making a serious effort in this area. At the same time, the situation has to be really assessed and it has to be recognised that the situation in COVID-19 in Estonia is critical. We have two main problems: the low number of people vaccinated and, consequently, the high hospital care burden. From the point of view of hospital care, the high proportion of non-vaccinated people, especially the non-vaccinated elderly, is a major concern. I welcome the press here, which has reflected the suffering of people in need of hospital care and the urgent recommendations to be vaccinated. I hope we have enough peasantry to learn from the mistakes of others. I am pleased to note that the vaccination rate increased significantly last week. The number of vaccinations exceeded 10,000 again last week. For the first time, over 10,500 people were vaccinated against COVID-19, which is nearly twice as many as a week earlier. From the heart, I hope that we can keep at least the same pace. From Wednesday, all family medical centres across Estonia will be able to give vaccinations against COVID-19 with primary, second and third doses of effectiveness. Family doctors and nurses vaccinate anyone who wishes, regardless of whether a person belongs to a particular list. There are certainly still ways to increase the rate of vaccination. The Centre Party has proposed six proposals. First, an allowance or compensation of EUR 100 60+ for people undergoing a primary vaccination course or an effectiveness dose. Secondly, a performance fee of EUR 10000 for each GMP if at least 80% of completed vaccination coverage has been achieved in the 60+ age group. Thirdly, the payment of a single wage to nursing home workers if the final vaccination coverage of nursing home workers is more than 90%. [Fourth,] a support measure for local authorities of EUR 10 to 20 per capita if at least 80% of completed vaccination coverage has been achieved in the 60+ age group or in the adult population. Fifthly, the establishment of a national vaccine damage fund with a comprehensive patient insurance system. Sixth, a pilot vaccine taxi project to promote home vaccination. I encourage the Government of the Republic to implement these motivating proposals. Society is tired of coronavir. Humanly, that's completely understandable. However, in guiding the crisis, we need to think ahead of several moves. We must work together to ensure that there are as few restrictions as possible in society. There are two measures: vaccination and clarification. One alternative to vaccination is to provide comprehensive and consistent testing. Corona virus is a common enemy of Estonian people. The confrontation of certain interest groups is an obstacle to a non-restrictive Estonia. What is needed is the opposite, not the search for the guilty, the constant exclusion and the trust in someone else, but rather an understanding attitude, the cooperation of the parties and the focus on a common goal. The Nordic countries can keep society open because there is a high level of vaccination. Each of us can contribute to improving the current situation. We must jointly support the health system and hospitals. It is already difficult to find health professionals in the COVID-19 departments. The load is very high and several hospitals are forced to postpone scheduled treatment. The faction of the Centre Party agrees with President Alar Karis, who says that our actions affect not only ourselves but also everyone else: our loved ones, our colleagues, the whole community. Finally, I would also like to make a brief mention of the demonstration on Saturday at the Liberty Square. The right to protest is the strength of a democratic Estonian state. However, I would like to pay attention to the statements made by the leaders of one of the parties, which, given the current situation, were not at all relevant. The political forces that make demonstrations on medical matters, while sowing fears, actually do themselves a disservice. Radical comments were also assessed with their feet by a number of well-known party members who resigned from this party. This is a sign that your actions have exceeded the limit. I hope that this rhetoric will now make a decisive turn to take into account the interests of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U132	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair... I think Mr Ernits is a representative of the group. I mean, I'd like a microphone for Mr. Pier. Mr Ligi, you cannot be the representative of the EKRE Group, unless you bring me a mandate signed by Mr Põllea that he has authorized you to speak for the EKRE. [[A voice from the hall.]] Let me get this straight. Mr Arable is a representative of the EKRE Group. Got it! I'm sorry, here was Mr. Ernitsa's name earlier. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põljaasa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, To claim it as if the opposition of the Riigikogu and especially the Riigikogu shun today's problem, which has hit the whole world and our society badly, is extremely unfair. Otherwise, these discussions would not have been here; the Prime Minister would not have been here on Monday and would not have been here today. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where the Prime Minister really came on Monday and made a political statement, but what new did we hear? Nothing! Exactly the same thing we've heard over and over and over again. When asked what data he was relying on, to my great surprise, he replied to those already published in the press. But unfortunately, we know that the press is full of extremely contradictory data on corona, vaccines, treatment and the present situation. If the Prime Minister comes here and he doesn't have a clear plan, a clear plan of how to proceed, and the only line through the whole story is that the previous government is responsible, the opposition today doesn't want to cooperate, it's weirder than weird. Why do we need a government anyway? Today, too, when Minister Kiik spoke to us in a special debate on the corona, we heard a talk for 20 to 30 minutes, but it was a stream where there was nothing new, nothing to bear, it could be simply a stream. Once again, it was extremely strange that the minister announced that yes, we had some plans, but I'm not going to tell you about them. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U134	Good waitress, I'm so sorry. We have come to this table with a procedural question, and a member of the Riigikogu also gives a pretty clear signal with his own hand. This can be a very important procedural, technical issue. I apologize, waitress, to you from the heart. I'm asking you to close the countdown so it doesn't come on account of your call. Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedural question. Please! Anything on the microphone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U135	I am very sorry, indeed a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U136	Technical question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U137	A procedural substantive question. According to the law, the hearing is scheduled to end at 1 p.m. today. The Commission proposed that, if the speeches and negotiations had not been concluded at one o'clock, the sitting should be extended to 2 o'clock. I've seen that when Henn Põlluaas finishes his speech, it's past one o'clock and we can't extend anymore. However, I have a proposal to put this proposal from the Commission to the vote so that everyone who wishes can participate in the negotiations and we can have the opportunity to extend the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U138	First of all, thank you very much, Mr. Ceder, for that. Thank you very much. Mr. Pierce, I apologize to you. But let's get through this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Special Committee on State Budget Control to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U139	With the result of 15 votes against and no abstentions, the session has been extended. Once again, I apologise to the EKRE Group and to Henn Põllea. I thank Helir-Valdor Seeder. I ask the Riigikogu to return to the Chair of the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group to Henn Põllea. I'm asking for more time. Please, Mr. Pierce!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U140	Thank you. It seems that Minister Kiik has completely confused priorities and that ministers and government are accountable to the Riigikogu. Instead of saying that follow the press conference, you will find out, the government, on the contrary, should discuss these issues with the Riigikogu, these measures. The Chairman of the Supreme Court, when meeting with our group on Wednesday, also said that such arrangements to manage the state are neither legal nor justified in this situation. In fact, this behaviour clearly shows that the government has no substantive will to take account of the opposition. While the opposition is being called on in the media and in the public to put forward its proposals, all opposition parties have also done so and have repeatedly spoken them out in this Chamber, they are simply not being taken into account. We are in a situation, again and again, in which we were in the spring when Estonia was leading the ranking of all countries in terms of infections. Today we are on our way back to it at a very high and fast pace. In the summer, we were reassured to be ready for the third wave, don't worry, everything is prepared, everything is done. The family doctors were told to rest in the leg when they suggested that they participate in the vaccination, that we campaign and we have centers, we have beams, whatever. But now we see that this has all been just an empty-air convulsation, because the government does not have a vaccination plan, there are no plans, all the signals that we receive are being overturned the next day and the Riigikogu is being held aside from this whole decision-making process. It is particularly strange that there is no common understanding in the government. This shows that there is no common sense of working or desire, as the government communicates with one another through the media. Government departments are proposing to each other what could be done through the media. This is completely absurd. Then there will be restrictions that, as we can see, have not actually led to the result. But no wonder, because all restrictions must be meaningful. The government has introduced the fact that the negative corona cost nothing, and all those people who are actually proven to be healthy have been excluded from society. It is as if the vaccination passport is what guarantees and guarantees human health and that they do not infect others. However, it is no secret to anyone that vaccinations are also contagious, and vaccinations also pass on this infection. So all these restrictions are absolutely unwarranted. The only reason that comes out of this clearly is that, as we have heard from the Minister, the only way and means is to carry out indirect and covert compulsory vaccination, which the Chancellor of Justice has also said is unacceptable, against fundamental rights and against the Constitution. Unfortunately, there are no other constructive ideas on the part of the government. We didn't hear them on Monday, when the Prime Minister was here, we didn't hear them in the uniform, non-saying streaming that Minister Kiik gave us here. Not one bearing idea. This is one of the most catastrophic moments of this whole crisis, when there is no clear understanding of the seriousness of the situation when there is no clear understanding of what should be done. Corona infection travels from country to country. Countries have set different barriers to how to control how to protect their people: asking for a vaccine passport, asking for a negative test result, carrying out tests at borders. But nothing is done in Estonia. During the last wave, when the situation in Russia was very bad, the borders were open and today we are essentially not controlling anyone anywhere. The Finnish press wonders why there is no control in Estonia, why nothing is done. We know how Finland behaves. They do tests in ports and everywhere else. Next to us, Latvia, the situation is particularly bad and has been this way for a long time, the society has been locked down, but we also do not control the borders of Estonia and Latvia. The people of Latvia cannot walk freely in their own country, but they can come to Estonia freely to go around, shopping, restaurants, anywhere. After all, what is the result of this clearly shows that the infection in South Estonia is significantly greater than in other parts of Estonia. This is the clear consequence of doing nothing. Especially in a situation where we are today, where a new mutation is already moving around, delta+, as has been mentioned, which is even more contagious than the delta strain we have so far, we should control all the people who come here. Yes, indeed, once and for all, we would probably not be able to avoid this [strain], but we could still have more time and delay its arrival significantly. The time we win means saved lives. Finally, I would like to correct once again what the representative of the Centre Party pointed out and what the government and the Prime Minister are always saying, as if the EKRE were calling on people not to vaccinate. It's a lie, it's an absolute lie. We are deeply concerned about this situation, about how to survive this crisis, how to deal with it. We are not against vaccination, we are against compulsory vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U141	Thank you very much. Once again, I apologise to you for the interim vote. Thank you. All right, let's move on. It is now that four groups have spoken. I ask for the next Riigikogu speech chair... I understand, Mr Everaus, that you are speaking on behalf of the Reform Party Group. So I ask for the representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair, Hele Everausi. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U142	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, There's a lot of you here. Great, good company, always good people. So thorough were the presentations and in such different directions that our whole current situation has already been reflected. I'd take a little bit of a different role. We are not alone in this whole pandemic, we are in an international context, and we will never be free of it if we do not get rid of it all over the world. I'd like to remind you, look, it's two years soon. We got it a little later, but December 8 was the day the first cases were reported. As of yesterday, perhaps we look at these numbers very indifferently, but think about how difficult this situation is - 245 million and more infected and almost 5 million dead. How has Estonia been? How much have we calculated since the beginning? By the way, it is believed that these figures can be multiplied by one and a half, or perhaps more, registered probably not all. Estonia has been infected since the beginning of time, since we started to register, 184509 as of yesterday. But more importantly, I want to bring these data, I am not going to comment on them, you can look at all these tables yourself and compare them with other countries, for a million we have 138968 [infected], while Finland's figure per million is 28016, we have 138968 per million. There's 13631 in Japan. The number of deaths, be it said, per million in Estonia is 1112, in Finland 207, in Japan, for example 145 and there are many countries where it is much lower. But I'm not going into analysis right now, you think, smart people. The first vaccination, let us recall, was in December 2021 in England, the 90-year-old Mrs. Margaret Keenan. Indeed, the pandemic has put people, as well as governments, under pressure. Of course, very different strategies have been followed and they have their own results, their own price. I think we have a place to think here when we look at what kind of strategy we want to go on. Whether it's elimination, or a zero-virus attempt, like Singapore or New Zealand. Whether it is a strategy for suppressing the virus, simply implemented differently, sooner or later, as there have been measures in the European Union and the United Kingdom. In America, where, we know, there are most dead people, there's just an attempt to ease this contagion curve a little bit. Besides America, there's Brazil, India and so on. There is, in fact, a lack of strategy. We have talked a lot about vaccination today. The world has thought that once we've been fully vaccinated, we can forget everything else, masks and distance, and we're back to normal life. Unfortunately, the last of the same virus, the delta variant, has put a brake on our hopes. Why does vaccination play an important role? This really plays an important role in suppressing the severity of the disease, but unfortunately not in spreading the virus. At present, American specialists point out that it is not realistic to achieve herd immunity for the COVID delta strain. However, it is very good that the vaccine is. Remember, 1985 was the first year of the HIV virus. So far, no vaccine, by the way. So I think this [the presence of a vaccine] is excellent, but we still have to emphasise today the protection and prevention that should remain. The virus hasn't come to kill us, it wants to live, and it can only live inside us, in our cells. Our behavior depends on how we really do with the virus. Even in the most vaccinated places, this is not the only measure. This is how the various states of America, for example, place things on their hearts and organise things: wear a mask, keep social distance, observe hygiene rules, ensure proper ventilation indoors, and so on. Its [listing] would take a long time. James Reason actually created a so-called Swiss cheese model for resolving all kinds of crises, according to which only one measure does not work as a solution as a rule. The irony of COVID is that so many people in the world have experienced loneliness, isolation, frustration. However, it has not prevented polarisation. There was and there is an opportunity for solidarity to support each other. It could have been both global and internal co-operation. It hasn't happened, and that's what we see here. This is a serious place to think. Coping with the disease has been different in different countries. As I said, strategies have been different, but it has not turned out that the result depends on political regime or order. Similar results are seen, for example, in authoritarian China, one-party Vietnam and representative democracy in New Zealand. It is pointed out that pandemic control is less related to politics, I am thinking here of a policy of achieving this purely national cooperation, how we understand and listen to and act together. After all, the disease is not political and should not be politicised. Today, much more than ever, we need substantive commitment, solidarity, cooperation. Blaming rhetoric has not helped in any crisis situation. The men involved in the pandemic are all of us, be it science, medicine, public. That's all of us. In fact, together, we are responsible for how to proceed. The pandemic has led us to understand one very important fact: how many things are in life that we take for granted. They just as they must and are, including life itself. Therefore, let us respect one another, because without it we will not find solutions here either. Let us honor everyone's life. I always liked Albert Schweitzer's idea: let us be reverential in life. Then we do things optimally and correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U143	Thank you. Now the representatives of the political groups have spoken, and we will move forward on the basis of the order that is currently in the order of speeches. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Peter Ernitsa, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U144	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's good to talk after a smart person. My youth as a scientist, a geneticist passed by in the lab. I haven't worked in Wuhan's lab, but I've dealt with bacteria and drug resistance, and I've seen how powerful life really is. Whether it's a bacterium or a virus, it's coming out everywhere. The hope that we are the rulers of the world is very deceptive. But in this hall, I don't want to talk about the virus and biology, I want to talk about society. In the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we have discussed this issue many times. As early as August 6, it was clear that the government had failed the anticorona. Dr. Vallikivi, who was very sensitive today, said that on May 19th an order came from the Ministry to rest on your feet. And 453 family doctor centers rested on their feet. At the same meeting, it turned out that the union of cities and rural municipalities was left aside: rest your feet. And you were resting in the leg. Today Dr. Vallikov says that now they're sweeping around: 15,000 calls, 600 vaccinations of aliens, an efficiency of 4%. But imagine, the months that the ministry led by Tanel Kiige had ordered that you rested, went to the water. They wasted a lot of time. On September 9, I was at the Health Board. I was surprised that I was the first member of the Riigikogu to set foot in the Health Board. It was the same day that Üllar Lanno announced his resignation. I spent the night there, met these people, saw and heard what conflicting signals they were getting. They have to work very hard, each day 300 queries need to be answered in addition to everything else. I looked at this legendary cold store that's being heated with a radiator. Some time ago, the Prime Minister told me in this very hall, when I asked who was responsible for these wasted vaccines, true, they were not predominantly corona ones, but children's paralysis and so on, that Üllar Lanno had assumed responsibility. But Üllar Lanno is not a politician. Six million or how much it's gone to hell and no one's responsible. Ignorance rules. And now the government of the Republic order No 305, the proportionality of the restrictions. We've sued it with the EKRE Group, but I don't think today is the 34th or 35th day, when the court is moaning, it hasn't even started to look at it. When we came up with the draft decision yesterday, it was sent to the trash. I repeat: we are not opposed to vaccination, which is said here, that the lame people and that you do not know what is. Yes, we do. The earth isn't flat. But with the apartheid regime that the Kaja Kallas government has created, we do not agree. Even if they say it's not apartheid. There's apartheid. But basically, during this whole Kaja Kallas government, society has been completely broken up. This is fundamental: trust in the state, including the Health Board, which is at the forefront, is very low. That's why we're in a place like this. You see, Tanel Kiik has thrown everyone he can overboard to save his skin in the Ministry and around. We don't have a head of the Health Board right now. Who would want to go to this place after Üllar Lannot? I think Üllar Lanno did very well. The Director-General of the Agency is vacant and so on. A high public official recently told me that a large part of the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs should be beaten up. Bang it up! Bang it up! Bang it up! So even Tanel Swing's head wouldn't be enough. But that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U145	Mr. Ernits! Now we have to decide whether the call ends or for up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U146	Yeah, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U147	Got it. It's a clear decision, so three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U148	But a bell would be good. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. And what's the result? The result is this: society is broken. We also do not have the vaccine damage fund that could have been a long time ago, the idea of which came out by Dr. Hasso Uuetoa, a member of our party, a long time ago. But it doesn't matter who came up with it. There's no trust, there's no foundation. By the way, these losses are not actually so great when you look at the Finnish analogous fund. But the problems are serious. Mostly, if you look cynically, the situation concerns very old people who reach the cemetery. The average age is 83 years now. This is particularly the case for men. It's actually the sanitary cutting of grandfathers, which can stand in the way if we continue to do the same. Grandpa's sanitary cutting. The sanitary cutting [expression] comes from Lennart Meri, a time of methanol tragedy, if you remember, a cynical expression. And what has Professor Merits said? 1000.2500 [of men], mostly grandfathers. But there are also health damage, very serious. Someone close to me was scared, but recently took another shot. Then he started to breathe. He couldn't even get up the hill. I saw it myself, fear came. His heart was racing, and to this day, that's how it is. Not much has been said about them, of all kinds of damage to health that may be, and which does not directly lead to death. I've seen them close by now. That's it. And what else? The conclusion, in my opinion, is that. I agree with this high-ranking state official who said that he should actually do a very serious cleanup at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Basic: we need a lookout. Once it's gone wrong, it won't help making up. That's the conclusion. That's it. Have a nice day, everybody.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U149	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U150	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland Party thanks and recognizes all medical and frontier workers who, despite prolonged pressure and pressure, are doing everything they can to save human lives. The situation is actually very critical. Basically, the Minister of Health said he knows, even though he won't tell us, but we'll probably hear from the news that there are very drastic steps ahead if we want to save lives. In fact, the loss of contact and responsible behaviour in the broadest sense and, of course, vaccination are very important. Vaccination is possible if it is effective. Unfortunately, we have reached a situation where effective vaccination and a good percentage of vaccination are no longer sufficient. The coming weeks will certainly bring us sad news and put a strain on the situation in the whole society. It must not be seen as a threat, but as a reality. You really have to think about how we're gonna come out of this very, very complicated situation together. Solidarity certainly has a place to put an end to this crisis, but taking political responsibility is in fact not less important. Unfortunately, if political responsibility is not recommended, it breaks down solidarity and cooperation and does nothing to solve today's problems. Round answers to very sharp ones, one might say that these are not the means that we can deliver today with which to deal with cross-cuttingly acute problems [the questions that have been asked about the site]. I'll just give you an example to illustrate the situation. Indeed, we all want our schools to be open and not to have distance learning. Monday ends the intermission and the Minister of Education has said that the first class could begin with general testing in schools. A noble purpose. It could really be done to contain the spread of the virus somehow. But with slogans, if they are not followed by a specific action plan, we will not improve the situation. Instead, practical steps should really be given to how tests reach the school, how testing is carried out in primary classes, where there are 25 students and one teacher, at the same time, so that these [results] are also reliable. We know that primary schoolchildren, because of their living nature, can do anything with these testing tools, and the result is simply not reliable. It's not that they can't do it if it's one for one, but just because of this mass, it's not reliable. Then it doesn't make any sense. Or how to deal with these kids... Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U151	Sir, Hepner, of course, three minutes. A little line. Since there are four other speakers, I'm going to round up, eight minutes is max, please let's just try to make sure everyone can talk. Of course, you have three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U152	How to deal with children whose parents have not agreed to testing? In fact, schools also need this kind of advice and common practice. Or how to behave in rural areas, when a dozen positive schools come out at once, but the parents of these children cannot be caught operationally because they have gone to work? How to get these kids home or how to isolate them? These are practical issues, purely practical issues, which simply need to be resolved in a practical manner. There is no policy, there is no emotion, it just needs to be practically resolved. Now, that's actually a shortcoming. It can indeed be seen as a cooperation. If we are fighting Tallinn, I mean that the government is fighting Tallinn, it is not practical to create solutions. It actually wears off teachers. Teachers are on the verge of burnout, just like medical personnel. It's just as big a problem. My call for all is for us to deal more with practical issues, so that communication is clearer and more unambiguous. If we say that money is not a problem, that tests are coming, then we will also say immediately after what period it will be decided on, how is the pursuit going to take down any tensions and rumors that were promised, but did not come. In this way, we will also have a more solidarity society, and it will be possible to end the crisis together. That's my call for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U153	Thank you very much. Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Jürgen Ligi. Just for information: of course, everyone has the right to speak for up to eight minutes, but we have four other speakers. So please, Mr. Ligi! A little extra time, maybe? Yeah, please, then eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U154	Thank you. I'm trying not to stall. First of all, I think that this event should not have taken the form that the chairman of the committee would present his ideas and political declarations, which have nothing to do with the competence of this committee, to the heads of the debate on the special committee on state budget control. After all, this committee should deal with, if not directly with the money, we never dealt only with money, but still with this distribution of resources, the usefulness and effectiveness of policies. This is what this committee is for, not for Reinsalu's personal appearances. I will also comment one by one on some fragments because I am not an official speaker here. Evgeni is always very bravur and black and white in his statements and certainly one of the most competent politicians. But I'd like to slow down again with a brawl like that. I would remind you that a year or almost a year and a half ago, I debated with him on the subject of restrictions, when they were blind and wild, very radical, not on the scale of the world, but still very radical and unelected. He said they're actually doing too little, they should shut everything down for two weeks, and when we get out of there, the virus is dead. It was absurdly stupid that time. But the absurdly silly thing is that he's still sticking to the view that the more restrictions, the better, and that the government will do nothing unless he sets maximum limits. No, I think that the wording of Siret Eagle was adequate this time that the government must be able to keep society open or must try to keep it as open as possible. There is, of course, a very large room of choice and debate. Of course, Le Vallikiv's speech. I would skip the minister's because he is responsible, and [his report, which was] certainly full of information and well-known in goodness or badness, how anyone likes it, was appropriate. Le Vallikiv's speech was refreshing. We're gonna need an immediate medical view here. From his speech, I would like to highlight a few things. First of all, we have confirmed that family doctors are still relatively consensus on vaccination and related issues. It is not appropriate to say something else that politicians often say that doctors do not agree. But the theme of Tallinn was also very refreshing. Tallinn is going in another direction from the Republic of Estonia, closing schools indiscriminately. What's really gruesome about this whole thing is that he justifies it so that no one gets an educational advantage. We're having a medical crisis. Its exploitation must not take place in such a way as to equalise schools where no vaccination is carried out with schools where vaccination is carried out. After all, national policies are clearly selective at present: vaccination guarantees more freedom. Now all of a sudden the city of Tallinn says that it was said by Vadim Belobrovtsev several times in my hearing on the radio, we must not give anyone an advantage. What kind of bullshit is this, especially considering that he favours Russian-speaking schools where education is worse anyway, and it's obvious that the same schools are also at a lower level of vaccination. He is actually totally arbitrary in pulling down the level of Estonian schools. The EKRE representative here spoke of decisions being made by government order. I agree that this is a little bit of a way of saying, a tricky or a complicated subject. But let us remind ourselves that these preconditions, for the government to be able to do them freely, are all created by the drafts initiated by the previous government. Not only did the previous government itself abide by it, it still informed the Riigikogu afterwards. I'm not criticizing him for that. This is an operational management in crisis situations; there is no need for the legislator to mumble around too much when decisions are urgent. Of course, the Riigikogu must discuss these matters and must do so constructively. More about politics. By now, the government has imposed another batch of restrictions. I think we could turn down this government criticism, because it was only Monday that a new strategy came into force that would draw a clearer distinction between the Coronary proof and the other opportunity to gain freedom. New restrictions just came along. I'm not happy about everything. Amongst other things, I think the masking duty could still have kept you in check. It has not been demonstrated that aerosol infection is thus effective in preventing vaccinees who are still poor distributors of the virus. In this sense, too, a number of speeches went wrong here, but the vaccinated are also spreading. No, those probabilities are calculated. Somewhere there is this tolerable risk that should be accepted. Infection between the vaccinated is unlikely enough and weak enough to allow us to start the corona in this community, if I may say so, as a normal, acceptable risk. This means that people get sick, some seriously, people inevitably die. But this is no longer a sufficient argument for the closure of society and for the abandonment of life. Overall, I think that the policy has adapted relatively well to the new situation. This means that there is a vaccine, pressure is being put on vaccination and not treating all citizens equally so that everyone is equal, everyone gets the same poor education and everyone gets the same poor restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U155	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kalle Grünthal. Please! Yeah, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U156	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people of Estonia! Today's OTRK, which is about the situation in the fight against the corona virus, has shown that the current government has been absolutely incompetent, has learned nothing from its mistakes, does not understand ideology, and we do not know whose interests it is. Why am I so harsh in what I say? The reason is that we have the opportunity to take a look at history. First of all, on 13 March, we started a pandemic, it was announced, society closed down. What happened next? We were sitting at home, trying to be correct, and by spring, things got back. It is also important to note that no masks were required at the time. The masks volunteered. Irja Lutsar personally announced on television that the mask could be, but does not really protect, because we can still compare the size of the virus [particle] and the capacity of the mask with the mosquito and wire fence [hole]. Okay. What happened next? In the spring, this problem subsided, society opened, we went to normal life, but in October, pressure began again. That same Irja Lutsar said wear masks, wear masks, that's the only way. We were obedient, put on masks. And what was the result? The result was that the number of infected people increased exponentially in November. What is the cause of this causal relationship? I received an expert opinion from the Estonian Environmental Research Centre in July. The same medical masks were tested, which are now desperately required. The result is as follows. [Firstly,] particle release. The textiles separate the dust. It's a simple result. Given the thinness of the mask, the range of the test area and the purge rate of the air, the result is very high [the indicator of how much] we receive dust particles. Forward, respiratory obstruction. Respiratory resistance is an important parameter because, in case of wearable masks, too much resistance makes the work of the lungs difficult, the load increases. It is also important that the size of the face of the masks fixed behind the ear is already rather low, with difficulty in permeation, most of the movement of air takes place not through the mask, but next to it. Forward, microbiological contamination. The results are pretty amazing. The masks that need to protect people against micro-organisms contain an average of 39.4 bacteria and 12,6 yeasts per unit of product, a total of 52 units of micro-organisms. The end result is very dramatic. The results of the test show, for a single random batch, that so-called protective masks, which are forced into normal use by methods and methods of administration, are more of a means of increasing health risks and harms. There is no point in talking about the benefit, both based on purely physical parameters and in terms of usage habits. It's a science that people always say we believe in science. I believe in science, too, and I believe that these experts are telling the right thing. Another major problem is that vaccination started in January, essentially during the high period of the disease. However, medical students in the first year are already taught not to vaccinate during the high vaccination period, as this creates new strains. Right now, we're in the grip of a score of the delta strain. Because vaccination is dangerous during the high period, it also shows that the dog's nursing home, which usually had between four and two dead during the winter months, resulted in 22 deaths in February and March [sickness]. This isn't a joke. What happened next? The end of spring, society opens up to activities. Everything's quiet, no vaccination, no action in this regard. But suddenly, in August, there will be another activation with restrictions. Mask duty. It is unheard of that the private sector will be involved in supervision, that a human being is required to pass a corona test [or] evidence]. Yet it is forbidden by law. Another important point. Just before the elections, absolutely all health issues are stopped, so that after the elections, we can get on with it. Now that's a crime when politics are preferred to the crisis. The situation where we are now, where only a person who has the [proof] of COVID's infirmity can go to stores and anywhere else, is comparable to the crime committed by Hitler in Germany against the Jews. In this very hall, Jürgen Ligi said that we need to put these people in a worse position so they can go and vaccinate. It's a forced vaccination that our law doesn't allow. This method is also wrong because in Järvamaa, in one hospital, the boarding house, a coronal outbreak broke out, and the reason was that the vaccinated workers went there and infected the entire staff. It's incompetence, failure. Tanel Kiigi's team must leave completely because this is the last straw in our cup. He doesn't have a new alternative in mind. But still, what are the alternatives? Let's take a look around the world. In the case of India, there was talk of huge piles of corpses swimming in the Ganges River and so on. The result? The result was the introduction of ivermectin, which cured the whole country. Second fact, Norway. Norway completely renounced the corona restrictions and basically equated the flu with COVID. The result is that there are no restrictions and, as of the day before, 147.1 infection per 100000 inhabitants. Only 69.1% are fully vaccinated and the third injection is really only recommended for people over 60 years of age. Because of the activities of this government and Tanel Kiig, our Estonian society is sinking into the swamp. Before we drown, we have to get out of there. The most terrible thing was when an older woman called me on Monday night, told me a story, and said that she wanted to commit suicide because she couldn't take these restrictions anymore. This isn't a joke anymore. Plus what's happening to us on a daily basis. Companies are going bankrupt, closing, no money can be made, so rent bills and bank loans cannot be paid. This Kiige government is not normal. It's fascism! We have to stop it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U157	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U158	Thank you, good Chairman! Good broadcast viewers and watchers, of course co-workers, all of you who are already reviewing it, because obviously many of us have something smarter to do, after all, school holidays are ending. We've got good-colored terrorists coming to the door to demand a bomb or candy. It seems that the whole credibility of the Riigikogu is about to land here. Yes, we knew that we could not make any major changes to this whole problem, because it is the day of the celebration of democracy. It's almost a week and a half from the day of the celebration of democracy. Everything went well, but the decisions were missed and because it was a school break. Well, there's gonna be something after school break. Well, at least there's a decision now, but does he look like a decision now? This is that entertainment events [ending] after 22:00 or 23:00. These are details. We have tried, as far as possible, to be eloquent in opposition and to deliver exactly as in the previous composition, when this was the case. But I'm not going, I'm not going, I can't take this seriously. Or not taken seriously. Once again, it seems that we are talking about an important national issue, but it no longer speaks to people. We have actually lost this communication war in every position. Remember that last April we took four PR people to work for the Health Board and by autumn they had already lost that battle. I see that I have so little time for a good fighter, Andres Metsoja, I would also like to leave time to express my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U159	I'll intervene once. You have plenty of time. You have enough time to take extra time, and Mr. Metsoja has enough time to make a call for up to eight minutes. We don't have to Rabbi, it's an important subject. Let's hear all the important thoughts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U160	Thank you, good Chairman! A good friend of mine said that if you can't figure it out in five minutes, there's no point in taking it in three more minutes. I'm based on that knowledge. Just as we insisted after the day of the celebration of democracy that the Prime Minister should come and give some explanation. He came in a week later and made a political statement. I'm telling you, honestly, I'm not a very big theatre player, I'm a big theater fan. But I asked one good couple in the Black Colonels what was the message. He said it was all fucked up. It is also possible to bring bad messages, but we must always be positive. And music always helps. Villu Tamme has written about euphoria. The song was like this: "Democracy is getting closer every day. Flags are waving like before. They're waving tomorrow. And the virus won't come because the newspapers say no to the virus. And from the deceptively smiling Swing, our medicine protects us. Stalin's dead, and the troubles are over, and Siberia won't threaten us. The sun doesn't set and endless Saturday makes the earth even happier. Now life is endless Saturday and coming an endless Sunday. Now life is endless Saturday and coming an endless Sunday. Trick or treat? Now life is endless Saturday. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U161	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Andres Metsoja. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U162	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U163	Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U164	Good people of Estonia! I'm sure we're gonna beat this coroner, but the truth is, we've lost a lot of battles. It's a lesson, one way or another, but it's definitely a sad experience for families. It can be that it's always easier to point the finger at someone else, find the blame somewhere else, not in itself. True, it is also the case with Estonians that often in the morning, this most wonderful and reasonable person in the world looks up in the mirror, but maybe after the day, that person looking back from the mirror doesn't seem that reasonable. I am very concerned in this sense that when we learned the first lesson, when this pandemic arose, we created a system on a rural basis, created a crisis management system, basically under the Rescue Board, created teams, went together, discussed, exchanged information. Today, however, we are in [a different] situation. I was in my constituency in Pärnu County looking into the situation. In principle, the same committee, which consists of local government leaders, specialists, experts, last came together somewhere two weeks before the elections. Today we read the news that schools are going to jail. We read the news that they go to the city of Tallinn, Pärnu, but they may not go to other schools in Pärnu County, other municipalities. One reason for this is, in fact, that limited quarantine in schools has not worked. It's been overlooked. This system has been deceived. We all know that. We knew it last week, we knew it last week, we know it today. Actually, we haven't responded to that. This is the problem, or the consequence of what we are dealing with today, we are going to distance training. In my opinion, this is another very painful lesson in this crisis, namely the issue of the education system. This is what we have tried, tried and tried to prevent. It has been one of the focus topics that schools must remain open, students must remain in [contact] learning. However, we are still in a situation where the state talks even more and the representatives of the Health Board exhort, the local government does you, the county crisis committees do not come together. Then we will discuss in this Chamber why the state, or national, does not understand us. It doesn't have to, and it won't if we do. Because what does a citizen expect? The citizen expects predictability. When trips take place during school vacations and children move, new strains are evidently introduced. It's a world-tested practice. In fact, if there was no vaccine yet, many countries said that this was the best possible prevention, that this is the best possible prevention, that if there is a school break, then at least a week or two immediately after school break will not go back to contact training. In today's situation where vaccination has been introduced, although these results are not what we have expected, this should have been avoided. Or at least we should have been able to intervene in this local model that does not deceive the system. Now, unfortunately, this has happened. I fear that this will work as a very strong dismay for those citizens who have been obedient. I'm sorry to use that word. Unfortunately, if we're in a crisis, then nobody will lead, someone will give orders, and you will remain in the role of whether to obey or not. There may be many different colours inside, including between family members. We see a lot of families in Estonia who are broken up because one of the parents is a vaccine believer, the other is not, the child has to make a choice there sometimes, he has to choose a side. This is a disaster for our future. At this tender age, the weakest ones are between the gears, which we do not really notice today. And once again, this support can be provided together, in one local unit, it is the municipality, it is the county. But it seems to me that these levels aren't working. It is very difficult to go into the context of Pärnu County to talk about the fact that if we close schools in Tõstamaa, Audru, Paikuse and Pärnu, but in the rest of the counties they remain operational, what do we do? So what do we solve? The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out this problem which, in my opinion, puts the citizen even more in the back of his head. The Chancellor of Justice points out that the closure of schools is not justified. Again we read and talk about poor communication, but in fact we are talking about poor decisions, not bad communication, but mismanagement. On the basis of this problem, all I can say is that indeed, a good Parliament, a respected government, the heads of the counties who are to be appointed, the leaders of the municipalities, must be gathered together, discussed together, and decisions must be sought. I understand that it is not possible to make decisions that everyone likes. They can no longer be made. But decisions must be made now and now. I think that all of us who are sitting in this Parliament will be able to feel the love of the people when this crisis is over. Then we, the government, will be judged by all the leaders. We're actually losing that capital. It is precisely because we use the expressions in this hall, even if it means that all of this controlling [the fight] with the virus is somehow fascist in nature. Mr. Grünthal, I can also tell you from here that wait a Nazi and think. But what do we get out of this? Why are we doing this? This is a crisis for all of us, and I fully agree with it. Such stigmatisation or in any way labelling each other in managing this crisis is unfortunately not going to take us forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U165	Thank you very much. Receiving address. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U166	Thank you. The question is that everything I said in my remote speech was actually the result of the same word that the previous speaker mentioned, because the action that is taking place refers to all these features. If, as a member of the government of Jürgen Ligi [the coalition], we publicly say on Monday in the remote that we must suppress these people so that they can vaccinate themselves, it is unconstitutional. When the private sector is asked to supervise the prevention and control of communicable diseases, so that they check the COVID certificate, it is illegal, it is unconstitutional. If we vaccinate people in high times, creating new strains, it is a disregard for our people. We will not learn lessons from other countries that have managed it, as India found the medicine ivermectin. You're laughing, part of it says it's horse medicine. It's not, it's prescribed by doctors to control parasites, it's taken by mouth. This is not allowed in Estonia for some reason, but it can be obtained. If it produces results in one country, why are we not allowed to do so? Back here, there's a Pfizer contract that's classified, it's not published, but it's leaked. On the basis of this agreement, we must not introduce any treatments other than the vaccine, because that is what the agreement says, and it would result in huge fines for us. This is not the right action of this government, and especially the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiig, and it concentrates on one word that I said earlier on the board.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-28_U167	Thank you. The negotiations are over. Good fellows! I'm closing the negotiations, the negotiations are over. Good fellows! Thank you very much. First of all, I thank the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I thank today's waitresses, the chairman of the committee Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiike and Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors Le Vallikiv. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu who took the floor here, who asked about this very complex but very important issue for our society. I will end with words that have sounded very much from here: thank you very much and a lot of strength for our health professionals. The first item is closed. Today's trial is over. A lot of health to you!
