ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U2	Honourable President of the Republic of Estonia Kersti Kaljulaid, President Arnold Rüütel, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, ministers, constitutional officials, Excellencys, good guests! It is my great honour to open the VIth session of the 14th Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U3	The opening address of the session shall be delivered by the President of the Riigikogu. Speaking chair, Jüri Ratas, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U4	Honourable President of the Republic of Estonia, President Rüütel, honourable members of the Riigikogu, Honourable Prime Minister, members of the Government of the Republic, representatives of constitutional institutions, honorable ambassadors, diplomatic corps, lovely Estonian people! On August 20, last year, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia. Here in the Riigikogu building, we can watch the exhibition "On the Way to the Restoration of Estonian Independence." Its people, their actions and their decisions make us, on the one hand, gratefully stop and forever appreciate that 30 years ago we achieved independence in this way. May their courage and statesmanship forever set an example for all of us, both here in the Riigikogu Hall and everywhere else. On the other hand, the restoration of independence placed great challenges on our people and then on our leaders. Dear colleagues who today open session VI of the XIV Riigikogu, we must carry on, develop, but also defend and defend the foundations of the democratic and parliamentary state, as enshrined in the Constitution. This is Estonia, founded on freedom, justice and justice, which is our fatherland, where the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture is ensured throughout the ages. A country where the highest authority is the people. I am convinced that these values will provide the framework and content for our discussions and debates at the new autumn session. Dear President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid! I read the news about your state visit to Kenya. You have highlighted a number of important aspects, namely the improvement of economic cooperation with both Kenya and Africa in general, and the simultaneous membership of both countries in the UN Security Council this year. You were a very strong contributor to Estonia's application to the UN Security Council. This was a serious competition where we won a truly important and historic victory. Thank you very much for this. But more allow me, on behalf of the Riigikogu, to thank you for your entire term of office as President of the Republic of Estonia and wish you strength for the future! Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues! Our work in this Chamber is to make decisions and to do so with the broadest possible consensus. I am proud of the Riigikogu, who felt this responsibility and chose the next President of the Republic of Estonia in the second round of voting on 31 August. Thank you and congratulations to the members of the Riigikogu for what they have done. On behalf of the entire Riigikogu, I would also like to wish a great deal of strength to the elected Alar Karis in his future work as President of the Republic of Estonia! What has been done so far will have no doubt about a decent sequel, and there will certainly be a new and fresh addition, just as it must be. Yes, we must look again at the issue of holding the presidential elections, which were once again raised sharply before and after the elections. There are some who are satisfied with today's system. There are those who want to reform it at the level of the electoral body and those who speak of direct elections. In five years' time, the order of the presidential election will be largely up to us. At least the XIV Riigikogu has the opportunity to initiate these discussions. I believe it is fair and necessary to hold a political debate on this issue and find the best solution. One thing is clear: the early nomination of candidates will certainly benefit the whole process in the future. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Our work at this session must be even more focused on the dialogue with every person in Estonia. A dialogue about our people's livelihood, security, the survival of the Estonian people, both mental and physical health, education, economy, this severe coronavirism and the international situation. We can only give a double speech if talking and listening are balanced. I believe that it will help to reassure our society, improve our relationship and increase our confidence in the future. All of this is very much needed in today's difficult world and in Estonia. During the last year and a half, the Corona virus has closed many doors in medical and educational institutions, business, the cultural sector, churches, our personal association with relatives and friends, and international communication. It's all been a heavy price. For many, it has been the most precious thing that has been lost, the price of life. I often think about families and people who will never see a family member, relative, friend or workmate again because of COVID-19 disease. Many who have gone from this world because of the virus could easily see many more Christmas, springing, sunny summers, and colorful autumns. COVID-19 must continue to be an important topic here in the Riigikogu in order to raise Parliament's initiative further. I am grateful to many of you who have discussed this issue and offered solutions in this Chamber, in political groups, in committees, in the body of elders or in society at large. I would like to express my special thanks to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which has been working hard on the COVID-19 issue. Our objective is clear: a society that is as open as possible, where people's health is protected. However, more effort is needed. A science-based approach is vaccination in cooperation with a family doctor or treating physician. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to vaccinations, and I also understand those who still hesitate. We all share the task of helping to mitigate people's fears and explaining without condemning anyone. It is also important to give certainty and a clear vision for the future. There are prerequisites for a society with as few limitations as possible, but we need to work together to achieve them. This is certainly a very high level of protection for groups at risk at 85% coverage, but also at least 70% of the population as a whole. The autumn session will bring a decision on cultural facilities to our table today. The last decision of this kind was made in this Chamber about a quarter of a century ago. This is a debate on the construction and renovation of important national cultural buildings. The weight of this decision is certainly historical, cultural, regional, economic, international and forward-looking. Estonian teacher, school and education are our way to the future. Today we are also going to discuss the development plan for education for the next 15 years. As usual, the autumn session will bring the state budget next year to our tables for discussion. I welcome and am very much in favour of the debate in order to ensure that the Riigikogu has greater decision-making powers when drawing up the state budget. To this end, in particular, our Committee on Monetary Affairs, in order to make proposals. I very much hope that the discussions on the state budget for 2022 will be serious, deep and in search of solutions. Revenues for our people's livelihood and socio-economic security must be as high and self-evident in next year's budget as 1% of GDP for R &amp; D and 2% for national defence. I call on the committees and the political groups to make even more use of the possibility of discussing an important national issue. Let the comparison be made that when the XIII formation discussed OTRK 39 times in total, the XII formation debated 29 times in this form. Today, the composition of XIV has discussed 21 OTRKs, and this week it will be added on Thursday when we have the opportunity to discuss OTRK on the topic "Equality in Estonia - Can poverty be cut off?'. The autumn session will also be preparatory to the implementation of the framework strategy "Estonia 2035." I ask all of us, through the political groups, to seriously contribute to the improvement of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act for the next composition. Honourable listeners! The international geopolitical situation is worrying. The latest events in Afghanistan and at the border with Belarus show us very clearly how important it is to build a strong democratic state and develop allied relations, but it is also a lesson that our sovereignty is protected first by our own defence and healthy and cohesive society. We have gained much wisdom this year and last year in the UN Security Council, the continued presence of the NATO Battle Group in Poland and the Baltic States, as well as NATO's air security in the Baltic States, is proof of our mutual understanding. Two days and twenty years ago, the feeling of security in a free and democratic world was hit hard with severe consequences. The events of September 11 may have destroyed several walls of freedom, but not the foundation. Terrorism has unfortunately not disappeared from the world. These cornerstones of freedom must be built on a daily basis an even stronger, smarter and more powerful superstructure that stands for peace and violence in the world. This construction also has a very important role to play. As an active Member State of the European Union, we will soon have debates in the Riigikogu on contributing to economic growth, environmental issues that need a solution, digitalisation and debate on the future of Europe. Good fellows! In exactly 28 days, the municipal elections will begin. The highest power can be decided in 79 municipalities of Estonia who, and how for the next four years, will manage their local government in councils. I know that many of us are also running for local elections. It is also one of the features of democracy. The current legislation gives a member of the Riigikogu the opportunity to work on the local council, but it can only be in addition to and in support of today's work, not at the expense of parliamentary work. And that's everyone's personal decision as to whether he's gonna make it. A good voter across Estonia, in all 79 municipalities, I urge you to participate in the elections and fulfil your civic duty! Your decision depends on how well you live in your home. Please be sure to participate and make your thoughtful decision! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Every idea is worth considering, regardless of what line it comes from and which side it comes from in this hall. We have just shown that, even in difficult situations, we can find broad-based solutions. I would like this spirit of cooperation to continue at the session that has begun. Good fellows, strength to work! Power to Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U5	I ask the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid, for a chair of speech in the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U6	Chairman of the good Riigikogu, honourable members of the Riigikogu, President Rüütel, Prime Minister, members of the government, bearers of constitutional institutions! In recent months, we have heard a lot of criticism of our parliament, which I do not think the Riigikogu deserves. The criticism of the presidential election, which, after all, went exactly as the rules require. This criticism was unfounded, you did your job well and quickly. The parliamentary state acted as it had to. Then why the criticism? Some of this was due to procedural rules that are simply not optimal for the current electoral procedure. These rules can be adjusted by the Riigikogu according to perceived dissatisfaction, and I hope that this will be done. After the previous presidential election, he didn't. I was afraid that unfinished business would be haunted. It did. The date of registration of presidential candidates could indeed be increased to one month or two earlier. For it to make sense, this list must be final. The electoral body may he win more votes from those who wished to cast their votes. Anyone who didn't want to, has volunteered to stay away from it, which is that it's like it's come to the hall. It is their choice and their right, but it cannot affect the outcome of the election to a greater extent than the choice of those who have considered the candidates and made their decision. And thirdly, our local authorities deserve to be more represented by the electoral body. This could easily restore the credibility of the presidential procedure in the eyes of the people. Quite a few things really need to be changed. Of course, the story of the Riigikogu's own place in the organisation of our state life and, consequently, in the heart of the people is more complicated. If the people felt that the Riigikogu was a body representing the views of all of our people, where decisions were made taking into account different weather views, while within the framework of the freedoms, rights and obligations enshrined in the Constitution, perhaps it would be ready to give Parliament more breathing space and confidence credit to reflect on who could be the next President of the Republic of Estonia. In my opinion, a large part of the resentment actually came from the ground that people simply for some reason did not consider the Riigikogu to be competent. They did not trust the Riigikogu to make an important decision for people in the way and in the way that 30 years have been entrusted. This is a serious concern. As a convinced supporter of the parliamentary regime, I very much want the Riigikogu to be the institution for people, which they always think about immediately, when we in society need to find a new consensus in any area. Not if it looks like it's gonna take a fun verbal fight. It must be the Riigikogu that the people trust in seeking consensus in the face of important and long-term decisions. However, the tone of public attention sent to the presidential elections showed that, unfortunately, this is certainly not the case today. Why is it that the people hold less than the Riigikogu if we all wanted to? In part, this low expectation has arisen, perhaps with the help of an example, rather consistently with our professional and competent officials, who often rightly feel that they are technically more competent than individual members of the Riigikogu or also from the collective knowledge of the Riigikogu, have assumed more and more responsibility for what we receive in the law. But that responsibility doesn't belong to them. This responsibility belongs to you in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. And you know what? I well understand that it is difficult for one Member, who should, as if to a degree, understand all the drafts coming into the Chamber, to impose itself on the authorities of the executive authorities that know the subject in depth. But it's in your hands, too. I really think it is time to discuss again how to increase the ability of every member of the Riigikogu to have a better say on substantive issues. Whether the solution is to employ every representative of the public, to strengthen committees or groups with professionals in their field, or to argue about something third, your own. But I think we need to discuss it, because it's actually desperately needed. In the same way, we could speak more boldly in society about what kind of people we want to keep the work of a representative of the people attractive to. Because, yes, and I am not afraid to say this here, in addition to the salaries of teachers, rescuers, cultural workers and everyone else, we must also talk about the salaries of Members. Once upon a time, we had a broad agreement that the four averages [Estonian salary] would be sufficient. It's less than three now. It is absolutely certain that for many capable people today, the salary of a member of the Riigikogu is simply unattractive. Yes, of course, the work of a representative of the people is something that is not done for the sake of money, in this hall there are notions and views and the desire to mold Estonia according to the wishes of its voters, but a member of the Riigikogu is still the top leader of the Estonian state ♪ all 101 and that is why the salary must be motivating as well. But now I'm going to leave this little digression, which I think is important, and which maybe it's difficult for you guys to say out here in this hall, that's easy for me, and I'll come back to your main job. If officials and government propose to amend the emergency law quickly and in a cluster, as if to increase legal clarity and society gets out of the emergency situation, then the Riigikogu does not necessarily have to accept this haste. It was quick and hasty, and the authorities' powers were increased, which, indeed, can be limited by the government if they want to. What if you don't, because it's pretty nice to get behind the officials? There was no legal clarity, a blurring political responsibility. Officials of the same phenomenon are better aware of the deteriorating budgetary procedure in the Riigikogu, where the role of the Riigikogu has been considered to be important, until the members of the Riigikogu no longer have at their disposal even basic information relating to revenue and expenditure, which would make it possible to make substantial corrections to the budget if they so wished. Is it the civil servants' fault? No, it's not. If one process has worked one way in the long term, then obviously none of the parties involved, including the Riigikogu, has opposed it. The government is also more comfortable in this way, the more the Riigikogu gives away the role of building its state and visibly, even very visiblely during the last pandemic period, has settled in the back seat. Is it the official's fault he's decided if the politician hasn't? No, it's not. Someone has to decide something when there is no political direction. The official senses his responsibility, he doesn't leave society undecided. But a politician should decide. Where, then, does one person's freedom to decide whether to vaccinate or not end? Where does the right of another person, such as a small person, to go to school begin to know that they are surrounded by adults who respect their right to life and health so much that they have vaccinated themselves against the disease caused by the crown virus? Should the sick person be able to be sure as much as we can and the vaccinated will infect less, so that his condition will not be aggravated by the infection from the hospital? It is not fair that the new balance of rights and freedoms will be decided by officials, the head of the PBGB, the head of the Defence Forces, the managers of hospitals and ambulances, the managers of companies. This balance must be up to you, dear Riigikogu. Of course, public disapproval, whereas, rather than the Riigikogu, falls to those who decided. However, the long-term effect of carrying it in the backseat will also be on this hall. At one point, you will no longer be seen as those who should find such a balance for our society. There are also areas that are not relevant to the pandemic, where I very much miss the leading role of the Riigikogu in achieving a national agreement. For example, the supplement to the Social Welfare Act on NEETs from 2018, which gives the state the right to collect information about young people from national databases, draw conclusions from it and provide support and help for young people to make progress in life. Such a proactive country emerges from an agreement that we had during the first phase of e-state development. Then we promised our people that they would only have to say something about themselves to the country once and that the country would know. He knows, but he does not collect or use this information to better understand a person, certainly not to perceive the pattern of his life's way. I don't use a person without knowing. In the case of NEETs, the state actually does. Or the other part of our e-state 1.0 agreement that the state will use database information unless the court has given permission to act differently, only for the purpose in which this information is shared? This promise is not in line with the draft ABIS, which has been the subject of a lengthy procedure in this Chamber. However, this debate here, although it lasted a long time, did not lead to a common understanding that, in a new technological reality, we need an e-state 2.0 agreement, as we also need to help NEETs and develop other similar event services. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice have promised me to work together to ensure that the concept of e-state 2.0 can be born. But what they and their officials propose can still only be concluded in the Riigikogu in order for Estonia to have such a necessary agreement. Please find this new balance! Find one that will best enable artificial intelligence to be used in the provision of public and private services, while protecting and respecting people's fundamental rights. This has long been very urgent, including the future development of the e-state. I dare to predict that it will not be possible to make a hero without society having similar questions about the balance of rights and obligations in this process, whether it is the right of local people to have a say in the emergence of windmills or the right of oil shale workers to social protection, which must, during a certain period, be in a preferred position compared to workers in freely developing sectors. I would like all such agreements to be concluded in the Riigikogu rather than to arrive at the Riigikogu for admission. To ensure that the role of Riigikogu committees is never limited to introducing amendments to the drafts, a large part of which has also been brought to the texts by ministerial officials and inspired by the external comments of the Riigikogu. In order for substantive, complex and inevitably always uncomfortable agreements and compromises to be made transparent, substantive discussions and ultimate responsibility to always take on this hall. Good Riigikogu! The moral confusion of recent years, which all those involved in the pandemic and vaccination now show us as a litmusist, clearly proves that Estonia needs the Riigikogu as a milestone. The Riigikogu, which again, again and again formulates our freedoms and the life of responsibility in the diversity that turns the world around us. Who gives me, the citizen, the assurance that my contribution to improving Estonia's future is similar to that of our fellow citizens and that we will all share in this better future in a similar way. I want the Estonian parliamentary regime to be something that children and grandchildren are proud of. It's in your hands, good Riigikogu! It is comfortable in the back seat, but those sitting there, no matter how well their right to participate in society is not structured by the Constitution, will certainly lose that right. It fades sneaky, it goes down a little bit, just like it is now happening. It helps if there are those in the Riigikogu who constantly forget that everyone who opens their mouths in this hall always speaks to the whole nation, never only to a specific questioner or answerer. Whether it is a matter of reason or a conscious act to ridicule the parliamentary regime, only they themselves know. In one way or another, the Riigikogu, which has given up the wheel or lost it over the years, often does not take itself seriously, risks the future of parliamentary democracy. If once the people who have lost their patience feel that the parliamentary order is not for us, unfortunately there are also users of such a moment. Dear friends! I would say goodbye to you with the words of President Toomas Hendrik Ilves here, in 2011: "The Constitution has appointed the Riigikogu to last through time. On the one hand, it gives you the duty to be worthy of your predecessors, to keep and promote what has been done here. On the other hand, it is up to you how the people of Estonia feel about their parliament and with it their country in five, ten and fifty years' time." That's what he said ten years ago. Let this year's policy season be the one when the trend formulated by President Ilves, which I have also been able to observe with concern, is finally reversed. Still counting on you, thanking you for your five-year cooperation. Happy autumn of work! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U7	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U9	Honourable Riigikogu, Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir, Peep Sarapik and Juhan Liivi sang "He is flying towards the honey tree." I thank the singers of the Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir and their conductor Tõnu Kaljuste. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]] Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to rise, the President of the Republic of Estonia is leaving. Dear colleagues, now we have an excellent opportunity to pass on drafts and inquiries. Please signal. As long as you collect yourself in order to pass on the drafts and inquiries, this is a small moment, I ask the Riigikogu speech chair of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U10	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching ten draft laws today. First draft law amending the National Defence Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Environment. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Act on the Performance Institution and the Law on the National Opera. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Culture in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the law on student grants and student loans and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Education and Research in the proceedings of the draft law. Fifthly, the draft law amending the State Assets Act. Sixth, a draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and other laws. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance. Seventh, draft law amending the National Export Guarantee Act. Eightth, draft law amending consumer protection law. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Ninth, the draft law amending the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Tax Act. Decimal, draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and the State Assets Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Have a nice autumn season! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U11	Good fellows! I have adopted ten drafts on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U12	86 members of the Riigikogu signed up, missing 15. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the specification of the agenda and, after that, to its approval. Firstly, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to remove the first item on the agenda of today's sitting, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs 392. Secondly, Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid has withdrawn his initiative... Is that correct, Mr. Kaljulaid? Yeah, I got it. He has withdrawn draft law 374 amending the Riigikogu Election Act, which was scheduled for the first reading as the fifth item on the Tuesday session of this working week. Therefore, the debate on this draft will not be on the agenda, as you wish. Thirdly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to raise the fourth item on the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, which is the first reading of the draft Act 401 on the ratification of the Agreement to facilitate and terminate investment between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, initiated by the Government of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, as the last item on the same day. Together with these amendments, we must vote on the agenda for the first working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu and therefore confirm it or not. I shall therefore begin the preparation of the vote. Can I go to the vote? Thank you. Dear colleagues, along with these amendments, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the first working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U13	With convincing results, by 91, against 1 and 1 abstention, the agenda is confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U14	So, now we are going to the debate on today's agenda. The first item is deleted from the agenda. Second item: Third reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? Thank you. I will put draft 381 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U15	With the result of 82, 8 and 1 abstention, the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 381 laws. That concludes the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U16	We move on to the third [point of order], which is the third reading of the draft law amending the collective agreement and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I don't want to, so let's go to the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? Thank you. I will put draft 383 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U17	In favour of 73, 17 against, no abstentions, the draft law amending the collective agreement and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 383 law. That concludes the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U18	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Riigikogu's resolution "Accepting the ranking of the construction and renovation of state-of-the-art cultural buildings" of the Committee on Culture 387. Please ask Aadu Musta, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu reviewed the materials on this item on 16 June, and we were hoping to make it to this Chamber during the spring session. Unfortunately, the trial ran out before we got there. After the first reading, there were several opinions on the Commission's desk as well as suggestions for improvement. First of all, it was wise to go over something as important as all the procedural things that one or the other or the third decision or action means and that was quite an exciting discussion. We gathered all the information received from lawyers, cultural capital and all other relevant institutions. There was also an important moment that Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits asked to put on the agenda. Indeed, in the case of the Estonian project, there was an argument that it would solve the ERSO problems. In fact, we decided that it was only Estonia's opinion, not ERSO's. We were also talking about whether the ranking set by the Riigikogu is also strictly mandatory for the cultural capital that will carry it out, or whether some changes or improvements are possible. It was explained as we did in our risk analysis that, in exceptional cases, certain viable solutions are possible today. When I wanted to find out from the preparer what these viable solutions were, it was explained that in the 20th century, 1996 when this law was discussed, it was found that there must be a strict, clear agenda. But today's financial opportunities mean that it is not like a knock is knocked down and then the euro is about to fall, but there are a number of sensible ways of intensifying work through financial mechanisms. It was also said that a lot of nice objects have been left out of the list. The Committee on Culture was concerned about this and we came to the conclusion that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, work must be done to ensure that those objects, which have been left out, are still very important and good, can reach funding over the years. If not for this project, it is not the only money of the Republic of Estonia. The most important thing, however, is that there were also four concrete proposals for improvement that are in front of all of us today. They all dealt with two objects: the film campus and the Anu Raud Center. Some of them, at least in terms of objects, overlapd. The first amendment was proposed by Raimond Kaljulaiult, who proposed to add a new point 1 to the ranking of building and renovating important national cultural buildings by changing the numbering and transferring the first object to the Tallinn film town in the ranking. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Second, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to include the Anu Raud Centre in Heimtal. The third amendment was received from the Isamaa Group and they proposed to add Tallinn's film town to the ranking list of construction and renovation of cultural facilities. The position is not stated, but if one is added to the four, it is number five according to all the rules of the logic of the Estonian language. Their proposal was also to include the Anu Raud Centre. The Commission voted on these decisions and considered that they did not have to be taken into account. These improvements were not supported by the Commission in June. Later, the discussion has gone on fiercely, and I have been asked whether a further committee meeting should be held as the opinion changed, because several members of the Commission have said that, as conditions evolve and film or cinema progress is monitored, they tend to support the inclusion of the film campus. Nevertheless, the Commission did not put it back on the table. For a very simple reason: we have suggestions for improvement before us, and if anyone has a significant reason to change their opinion, the suggestions for improvement on the film campus have been presented to us and the large hall can express its attitude by voting simply, clearly and with relief in the large hall. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U20	Thank you for this very good and substantive overview. Dear colleagues, in the case of a draft decision, we must take into account that we also have questions for the rapporteur and, as a result of § 68 (3) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, there are up to two oral questions, so that we can ask these two questions calmly. And we're going to go to the first question in the autumn season, which is Priit onion. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U21	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have a question about the ranking that Parliament will immediately decide on a proposal from the Committee on Culture. You also referred to [this] in your introductory statement, but rather confusingly. You said that you have tried to get an answer, and you received an answer that, in exceptional cases, in order to find viable solutions, the implementer may change this ranking. I have a question as to whether the Committee on Culture examined the legal [option], we also have a legal basis and an understanding that if Parliament decides to make a ranking, either, who and under what conditions will be able to redefine these objects, either in this fourth ranking, or to skip something, or to finance them in accordance with the ranking that we have adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U22	Thank you. A good question and apparently needs a more thorough explanation. The thing is that unforeseen circumstances are that if, for example, a co-financing scheme is mentioned in a project, and at some point, it turns out, for example, that whoever was supposed to be a co-co-co-co-co-co-financing agent is fantasizing and not referring to any particular object, but purely theoretically, if this were to happen, says that I am already good, I went bankrupt and, unfortunately, I cannot fulfil my obligations, then this may be an important reason for stopping the launch or financing of this object. However, as far as the ranking is concerned, this is indeed the kind of thing that we, in the Committee on Culture, also asked each other and one from the other and the other from the third on several occasions. In the old days, one thing was built from the beginning to the end, and the money was paid for a particular job. Apparently, the various forms of leasing and bridge financing to which, as stated by our Ministry and cultural capital, they have allegedly verified that there has not been a state-to-state credit transfer, i.e. cultural capital, is indeed received on a queue basis. As long as there's no money, it's not like we're gonna transfer it to you from the end. But basically, in today's economic mechanism, it is not always the collection of money and the specific construction work in absolute sync. Pinger change? A very specific and precise question. Unfortunately, only the Riigikogu can make a formal change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U23	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U24	Good manager! Good waitress! Anu Raua Centre, 2.6 million, such a relatively small number for the entire project funding. How did this debate take place in the Commission? I understand that the Commission did not support this. How do you feel about whether the Commission's support for this subject could still have been? Today he is going to vote in the Chamber as an amendment, I hope that the hall will support such an important object. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U25	I regard it within the framework set for the legislator. The point is that sometimes it is very useful to read what the legislator's will has been to develop and adopt one, another, third or fourth law. During the debate on important national cultural objects about a quarter of a century ago, it was stressed that the whole project was for spectacular, large scale and not at all cheap [objects], [other] local authorities and stakeholders could help, for example, there. They must be large, large-scale objects which the state will otherwise find it very difficult to finance and raise the relevant capital. A separate project was carried out for this purpose. According to the comparison of the flight plan of one member of the Riigikogu, this amendment was an emotionally very sympathetic but, in essence, a proposal to send a kite to the air force parade. Now, in the press, the statement that the Riigikogu made a bad assessment or did not properly appreciate the Anu Raud Centre is not true. I repeat once again: from the beginning, it has been the view that large strategic cultural buildings are the content of this project, and smaller ones must be dealt with by the Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and see how they can be financed. It is true, as soon as this matter had passed through the Commission, it was, of course, known that these amendments would come, and that is what Kaarel Tarand wrote about, who said that, dears, you will present this bill just before the local elections, and you can be sure that somewhere in Viljandi, Jõgevamaa or Tartumaa, there will certainly be a suggestion that we too need a very sympathetic centre for our people. We talked to the Minister of Culture, he has also said it publicly, that the objects that were left on the list have not been wiped off the table, but have to be found in different funding channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U26	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U27	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I'm going to ask you a question of decision-making, and let's say it's a follow-up. When four out of ten were selected, four may have received additional documentation in order to be able to explain to the ambassadors and members of the Commission. But now that some knowledge has changed for us, the remaining six who were left out of it, they stayed out of it [out], they were not made, let's say, with further questions. Is this, to some extent, an obstacle to our decision-making powers here, or should we give a sense of assistance, because, in that time, they have also looked at their own project and perhaps found more sustainable solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U28	You could answer briefly, maybe. In fact, there were 29 of these objects. Indeed, the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu was familiar with them on the scale of our committee, and if we take the 'historical-comparative method', then, very thoroughly, each project individually and with everyone else in comparison. When I came to the remote, I thought I'd be able to get away with a little bit shorter today. Why? Because the President of the Riigikogu made such a nice reply on cultural objects, he immediately explained a number of things for me, but all right, I will continue to talk about them. Apparently, the current system is certainly not eternal, and most likely, I dare to predict this is not a decision of the Commission, it is my personal opinion that the next Riigikogu will probably review the law on the processing of important cultural objects of state origin. In the course of the process, there was, in fact, a first-reading discussion of this was, from the beginning, we set criteria for ourselves, and little of that, the Members of the Commission consulted their political groups on these matters. That's why you came up with things that aren't in the law. Point one, assess the importance of all these objects for Estonian culture and its sustainability as a whole. This was one of the main criteria. Secondly, and this was an indication from different political groups, which ultimately found consensus in the Commission, we must also respect the regional dimension. Perhaps this is the way no one challenges the fact that Tallinn is the capital of Tallinn, that if the musicians say that our object will come to Tallinn, and the artists say that our object will come to Tallinn, and everything will come to Tallinn, then it seems that perhaps our regional balanced development will suddenly get a little hit. I'm not going to finish reading because I'm going to repeat the first reading, and then you're going to say that Black wrote off himself. But since Kruusimäe gives me the signal that he's already got the answer... [[The mug hill specifies the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Oh, can I talk to you? Very good, I like it. The point is that, for all these objects, even for those who thought they were coming and proposing improvements, we had public presentations, surveys, and even more so, the Commission had agreed that everyone who wanted any additional information or consultation could do so and nothing happened in the dark or under the deck. There was, however, another such question... Well, in terms of regularity, it was also that we were quite proud that the procedures had to be correct and, for example, a Member of the Commission, a good colleague, Jaak Valge, withdrew himself because one of his closest people was involved in a project. Instead of saying, I have a white flag, and we're going to go all the way out for this object. No, indeed, it was politically correct that the Member of the Commission withdrew to counter all doubts. As regards whether anyone will get an additional chance or not, I repeat what was said at first reading: the Commission itself is convinced that we were thorough, professional, and when there was a lack of professionalism, we always asked for a consultation and tried to involve the political groups. Unfortunately, in a democratic country, Parliament's plenary is superior and superior to any committee, in other words, when it says that there is something else to be introduced, that is the law. The only question is whether Parliament's Committee on Culture needs to take down one grade in its work because it was badly worked. Maybe you don't even have to, because the end result is important. The current legal area led the Committee on Culture to find four objects that are entirely in line with the will of the legislator. And this House, for its part, has the right to correct it with collective wisdom. No more answers today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U29	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U30	Good manager and waitress! Do I understand now [rightly] that you claimed that this list was designed on the basis of the most important buildings for Estonian culture? And now all of a sudden, these changes, Anu Raud and this movie campus. In the meantime, has anything significant changed that culture has been re-evaluated? And did I understand [right] that the Social Democrats think that Estonia is out of date and out of date and that the film should be replaced? Were these discussions in the Commission, I haven't gotten there, heated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U31	It has to be said that now, if you touch the pulse, the meetings of the Committee on Culture are a little less temperamental than the meetings of another committee. So we discussed it constructively, and everyone said what they had to say. But the opinion of the Socialists is indeed what I am not even competent to comment on, because this whole argumentation was not thoroughly resolved in the committee. I am sure that the political groups will clarify their proposals and their thoughts in their speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U32	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The first object of this ranking of important national cultural buildings is the cultural centre of the city centre of Tartu. This name itself says that the cultural centre is meant for the city centre, and this city centre would have been a park between Claw Street and Vabaduse Avenue. This is a very big problem for me as a native Tartuman, and I know that a very large part of the population of the city of Tartu is opposed to the fact that this park in the city centre is now destroyed and replaced by a large concrete building. I wanted to ask you that although the name is still the centre of the city centre, whether the location of this cultural centre has been determined or whether it is still open.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U34	Indeed, there are different disputes as to whether this place is fit for purpose or not. As a resident of Tartu and as a long-term Tartian, I have taken it relatively calmly in the sense that the project of this cultural centre is quite powerful work. And I was a little relieved of this criticism of what came and what needs to be analysed, of course, of the fact that the Tartians have always been against all things. I'll just make one comparison. 1798 The Tartu Pass and a large part of the townmen protested because Tartu was about to be built some big and ugly thing like the University of Tartu. Somewhere in Russia's Senate archives, there are two and a half kilos of complaints that you can't do such a thing. I have read through decades as a schoolboy, though a student, but as a lecturer, the articles that said that no building should be built in Tartu from the yeast factory. Maybe they were right, because then this is the second Tartu. And I am well aware of the people [thinking] who say differently and show pictures of how there have been buildings in the city centre, how there has been a trade yard. So these are all sort of controversial things. And it's a good thing people aren't indifferent about that. However, this project envisages the construction of a centre of culture in the city centre. I just had a very interesting conversation with Japanese guests who asked if you deliberately had a suburban in the middle of the city and the edge of the city is a forest and a plain land. Only the city of Tartu had to live, I don't remember, 68 Bears, but they were in the population register, not on the outskirts. So it's also a question of the trust of the performer and local government. There are always different opinions, and in that sense I absolutely agree with you: different opinions are and will remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U35	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress, you indicated in the introduction that according to the Estonian language rules, the proposals of the Fatherland will be placed on 5th place. I do not know exactly which rule you referred to, but I am convinced enough that there are no such rules in Estonian. This ranking has been put before us by the Committee on Culture and we are going to vote on it. If the proposals of the Fatherland are supported, it is likely that the Committee on Culture will have to meet and decide on the place where this proposal will fall. But I have a question about the Estonian National Opera. In the opinions presented here and in the debate and discussions that have taken place, I think that this issue has been greatly frustrated. Can you tell people involved in the National Opera or people who love the opera whether you believe that the design presented according to this project or idea can be financed and built?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U37	I mean, despite being as important as the chairman of the Committee on Culture, I am not going to make assumptions, predictions or opinions about exactly how the future is going. It is clear that if the Riigikogu takes a decision that cannot be realised in accordance with the laws and rules in force, it will not materialise. Can't say I don't like the law, we don't do that. This also concerns the competence of the local government, the views of the landowner of the object and all that. These things can only be realised if they can agree. As far as Estonia is concerned specifically and this need is concerned, it has been painfully discussed in the Commission, and many people have said that it had to happen then so that we could clean up the site and then we want to build something there that does not sound the most successful. Nevertheless, there have been opinions, I will draw attention to, including the opinion of the National Heritage Board, when we prepared this matter, that modern heritage protection seeks compromises and many things can be realised. A lot of information noise, of course, was caused by the press, who decided to introduce this object, Estonia's addition, not from the source documents, but from some big red dresser that we all remember. Somewhere in the paper [it] appeared, and it scared everyone away, too. But in the end, it turns out that this has nothing to do with the real project. And two more things. We have looked in committee, individually and separately by the chairman, still this debate at the end of the last millennium. Some say that then everything went smoothly, simply and logically. No, it didn't. There were disputes. Even after the decisions had been taken, the most violent attack was on Parliament, the Committee on Culture for the fact that there are many museums, but Estonia, which we have been waiting for for decades, remained outside, and this was a very, very, very sharp attack at the time. It may be that under the circumstances referred to by a good colleague, we may expect another 70 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U38	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U39	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Head of the Committee on Culture! The question of the rankings you have already spoken on today. I'm sorry if I repeat myself, but certain things need to be clarified. I still ask about Rakvere and Arvo Pärt's concert house, which, on the proposal of the Committee on Culture, should be placed in a third position among four or five choices, if my information does not deceive me. Can you or can you specify a little more about the form in which the objects placed in the ranking can start real construction work and what the prerequisite is? Perhaps the content of the question: today, Monday, in the town of Rakvere, the adjacent infrastructure was opened with the Arvo Pärt Concert Hall, which was built and repaired by the city on the basis of this concert hall, the music house and how the building can be served. Having also been basically the head of this design team, I know that all the necessary steps and preparations have been made there so that construction activities can begin. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Can they start soon, rather than wait for the next funding period?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U40	Yeah, that's the question I'm not tired of answering now, because it's a central question. We in the Commission have repeatedly asked ourselves and tried to get it right. This discussion that we had before with our good colleague, Priit Sibula, that either the rules of Estonian or something lay down [this] no, the logic of the Estonian language was my idea. If I was wrong, there's something wrong. If there is a whole and something is added to it, if there is a ranking and it is added to it, then it means adding the end of the ranking. This is by the logic of the Estonian language that I spoke about earlier. As regards the way in which the financing scheme takes place, the representatives of the cultural capital have explained to us that in addition to the decision of the Riigikogu, which is a law, the conditions of operation are also taken into account, and, for example, in circumstances where there are several financiers, the decision of the Riigikogu means that the guarantee by the state, the corresponding funds are coming. If one of the partners takes up their responsibilities before, or if one of their partners takes up their responsibilities first, they will not stop, that the country is not yet in the position of the money ship that you are already doing your part here. So in this sense, it is specific financial contracts, construction contracts, realization contracts and it must all be negotiated, played through cultural capital, trying to find faster, optimal and best solutions. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U41	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Culture is always worthy of support; there is obviously no doubt about that. I would always like to support more, even in this Chamber, more than I can. There are ideas and the people of Estonia and the country lives. My question comes from this area: how do you assess and whether you discussed in the Commission, that perhaps in 1998 the list on which we have built important cultural objects was last confirmed. Now, this order of priority is obviously not to be reviewed by Parliament in this composition and it does not seem to be in the next composition, because there is no need. When can we talk about the following ideas that are losing money today? Did you discuss this side and set goals for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U43	I even tried to embed it in one answer. Indeed, the Ministry of Culture and I have been constantly discussing this. We first looked at what is in the agenda for these priorities to make sure that this whole cultural picture is still as good as possible, and we found that this project does not solve all things. For example, the Ministry of Culture was quite important for museums, which is like the material foundation of museums, etc., but in this respect we also found that the state has certain obligations. Reading once again the original will of the legislator, it was precisely that more official-faced things would be left out of this project and that very important things would be done to a broad audience. Of course, we have already looked at this and we have consulted quietly on what to do with the Anu Raud Centre, for example, and on whose initiative, how to bring local authorities, etc. So that's what we've been talking about. The Commission's will and our own working arrangements are such as to look and look for ways to find co-financing or funding for those items that unfortunately were left out. Some say that you had a happy job and were able to choose great things that would eventually go down in history. In fact, this work was full of heartache, and I can assure you, as a breezeman, that we were also in pain because of Pärnu's objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U44	A little relief from Pärnu, too. We'll go from here with Heiki Hepner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U45	Thank you, good Chairman. Honourable waitress! I actually want a little bit more clarity about this ranking. I think with this attitude, with such a flexible interpretation, that if no one can contribute, the next one will be stopped and taken, we will arrive at a situation where all the objects will be financed at the same time. My question is, why do you need this ranking in the first place, because the current approach is exactly so that you can start with everyone at once? This search for viable solutions, in my opinion, I honestly say that all objects will begin at the same time: how do you view this idea? And how are you going to interpret such a flexible ranking? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U46	Yes, the same things went through in the Commission several years ago. The first thing they said at the time was what you're going to start so early. 2024 is just ending with funding for the previous project and give time, rest your feet, and when the time is nearer, we will discuss. However, it turned out that the surprise-surprise-surprise, old debts, all financial liabilities related to the previous similar project will be fulfilled in the first half of 2022. Consequently, the project is really starting faster than it is, and in that sense it is good that we had an early opportunity to talk about it. I mean, it's really surprising that there's work going on at the same time, but that's the way it is. It turns out that the project was written by everyone at the same time, making real expertise and looking for their resources, etc. The fact that the stages of the work are financed at once means that if you receive about 10 million a year, these funds may initially be transferred to the first two items in the ranking list. And that's exactly how it's gonna be. But now those who are more familiar with the financial side and the engineering sciences, have been in real good leadership positions, are trying to explain to me and are doing it convincingly, including the high state officials, so that the financial mechanism, so that any construction should not stretch like a worm, but that sometimes something can be done in stages and faster, is today's practice. And even though we, Heiki Hepner and I feel fucking suspicious, it works fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U47	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U48	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! I will continue with the same subject of the payment of this remuneration. Today, 25 years ago, decisions were made in this Chamber. You mention that perhaps by next summer these previous objects will be funded, but I'm sure if, at that point in 1996, the state had taken out a loan at once and built all the objects, the total cost of all the objects would be much cheaper than the cost of one object today. Has it not also been a debate that if four, five, six important objects have been selected, then the state could build them up and, over the years, this money could come through this fund to the state budget, because we know that every year the construction will be more expensive? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Was there, or was there not, a debate like this in the Commission at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U49	There were different discussions in the Commission, and there was also this debate that the regulations that were probably made at the end of the 20th century were those that needed some modernisation. It was also understood in the committee that a project with a year or two could not be completed and maybe the next, but perhaps the next, Riigikogu should review, recalculate and take into account the whole system and take into account the possibilities, needs and conditions that have already been updated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U50	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You did tell me my last question about the year 1700, and I don't know what else, but I'm talking about this day. And from this day forward, in the sense that the same park that lies there between Claw Street and Vabaduse Avenue is very important to many Tartun people. As a member of the City Council, you probably know that a very large part of the population is not willing to give up this park. Therefore, I am still asking you again and asking for a specific and clear answer: is the location of this centre of culture determined or is it still open?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U52	Thank you. Once again, I say that I respect different opinions. This project talks about the cultural building to be built in a specific place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U53	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U54	Thank you. Politicians have to take responsibility. If we vote in favour or against, we must understand very precisely what we are actually voting for or against. That is why I have two specific questions here that I just want you to be able to answer in the Chamber. The first is that what happens when, for example, a problematic building cannot be completed simply because it cannot be realised for reasons of heritage conservation. Right now, we're squeezing our eyes, we're voting in favour, but we can't really build it. And the second, if we really vote on the amendments of goodwill and very much support them, but at the same time we need to understand what the next step is, that is, what will happen if we vote in the film campus. Can he really stand there only in the fifth position and then receive money relatively late, or are there really legally correct answers to this question? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U55	The first question was responsibility. It turns out, as the President of the Riigikogu said here, that the Riigikogu really cannot only ride in the back seat, but must, in the meantime, get out of the back seat and see what the world looks like. This means that if an object is contrary to the rules or laws of heritage protection, its construction will not begin until all these possible contradictions are regulated. I tried to insinuate it, but I'm really going to go over it. If there are no necessary documents on the basis of the construction, the construction work will not begin. It's as simple as that. And then cry or laugh, whether Parliament comes together or what happens, but in that case it is not possible. Then, inevitably, another [project] must be launched. There's nothing to do. And the other half of [the question] was... I've already forgotten. Oh, movie campus and voting. I mean, indeed, it is such a tricky thing that suggestions for improvement sometimes change the world. And actually, different options can happen. One option says the movie campus will be the first. And if the entire Riigikogu votes so that it will be the first, it will be the first. Then we have to look at whether this means that the rest will shift in numbering or go back to the Committee on Culture in the first place and start the whole procedure from the beginning. It can happen that the film campus adds to the existing four. That means that the mechanism that I was talking about or discussed will be activated. Since the state is not the only funder of the film campus, cultural capital has promised to hold binding concrete negotiations and to conclude agreements on how the funding scheme works before any action is launched. That's how it's built. And when I'm talking here about all sorts of risk assessments and threat plans, it's not because I really want to change everything now, but we're really in the Commission, you remember, we've been discussing: but if. And even if-if-if-if, option four, the worst case is that the Riigikogu must meet again and make subsequent corrections to the law that has already entered into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U56	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good Aadu! First of all, the great recognition that the film campus project has reached the stage of being discussed again. This shows that the Commission and you yourself have been flexible on this issue. I'm sorry, I do not understand exactly how our decisions today affect the completion of this project. Its leaders, as well as the city of Tallinn, have confirmed that everything is ready from them until the building permit has been granted or granted and they can start now and now. And we have two amendments, as I understand you: one for the first and one for the fifth of this project. Will the time when we can start depend on which proposal will finally find support in this Chamber if it does? If this object gets first, we can start with this object [building] right now, and if it gets last, you can't? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U58	I mean, as soon as these amendments came, I, as chairman of the committee, had the duty to learn the same thing you are talking about first. And that's what I've done. The current situation is that both the initiators of the film campus project and the city of Tallinn continue to claim that they are able to begin immediately. But they use terms like bridge funding and stuff like that, so the "involving party" can start. Apparently, it's the same story where we formally stick to the fact that money can be transferred first to the first two objects and then to the next two, but not five at a time, right? And what I will say is that in all the suggestions for improvement, it was my job or my duty to ask the initiators whether they would be satisfied with this amendment. God forbid, we're here to say we're building a big Cheops pyramid, but they say they wanted an anti-tank ditch, right? You can't get so messed up. So we've gone over them, and option C, that the film campus will be added to this, essentially taking into account Raimond Kaljulaid's proposal, although not exactly in this form, and if such a thing is accepted, both the city and the project's author will be satisfied with this solution and will find it a good solution if the four objects are added to the film campus as the fifth.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U59	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U60	Good manager and waitress! In the Commission, did you also discuss how they meet these conditions in the preamble to our constitution that [the aim is] the preservation of Estonian language and culture throughout the ages? Now, if you look at this film campus, which is also important, and compare it with the center of culture and others, there are small differences, perhaps even big differences. Did you discuss how this order corresponds to the idea of the Preamble?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U61	Good question! Basically, the Constitution is not applied to every sandwich, but rather to make sure that the people are fed and that the meaning of the Constitution is truly strongly protected. We saw that this set, which we originally put together, that these four cultural objects would serve the objectives set out in the Constitution, and we thought that they would serve and fulfil that objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U62	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm still in that line now, and you tried to explain it in the meantime, but you said that if there were any glitches, there was something about heritage protection, or, I don't know, nature conservation or anything else, then as long as it wasn't [all right], it would stop. However, if this object is the first or the second, then it actually means that the whole process has been stopped. Or is this object still excluded? How's that anyway? This thing is pretty messed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U64	Who's crazy, who's not. But I can talk again. Basically, we've thoroughly reviewed that you're really in the first and second positions of objects with which it's not confusing. Do I have to keep talking? If it reaches the third, the question may arise as to whether it will fall out or fall out. And when it comes to the next fourth, maybe the question, or the fifth, will come up again. So far, there is a guarantee that projects can be launched by financing the two first placed or, at least, the first placed cultural objects in the draft. We have that confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U65	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U66	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I would now like to disprove a myth that everyone thinks that if a proposal has come from the opposition, it does not have the theoretical possibility of passing through. And in case he goes through, there's gonna be a minister in charge, and he's gonna say that if you vote these things in, I'm gonna cut it off. After all, this bill has been initiated by the Riigikogu. Am I on the right track in this thought development, or is there a minister coming through the back door and saying that it is not okay, we are not going to look for money for it, because this proposal has come from the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U67	Thank you. I sometimes feel like you're thinking about doing good things well. And we don't call ministers through the back door who say we're coming and sawing your legs in the chair. Perhaps there are no such ministers. And as for the opposition's drafts, I hope that I will not make too much of a secret if I admit that I like the amendment proposed by the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U68	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the explanatory memorandum to this Decision, the "Manufacturer' of the Narva Kreenholm Cultural Quarter is listed in the renovation ranking under point 2. According to my knowledge, this complex belongs to a private individual, even a Swede, if this information is correct. Right now, we're financing this private sector object with public money. Here's the question. How are the risks grounded, and how can it be ensured that there will be no later legal disputes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U70	Thank you. Well, that's a good question again, because two years ago we sat right on top of that needle and we discussed that there were no risks from this. Indeed, the risks are mitigated by legal agreements between the owner and the municipality. We once had a colleague, Mrs Raik, who, after that, moved on, like almost as Commissioner of the Commission, in Narva. Because the local authority had the task of submitting or concluding specific binding contracts in which the owner undertakes to accept all these terms and conditions starting from the contribution of EUR 15 million and ending with the use, management of the object. And these things that you and I are afraid of together, the task of a contract is to hedge these risks. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U71	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, I wish a successful new season! But, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, we have just heard very ambitious speeches and views about the importance of the Riigikogu and our role in ensuring democracy and so on and so on and so forth. We also remember from spring how intense the negotiations and consultations between the political groups were in order to draw up this list of four. We have just heard that the Riigikogu must not allow itself to be hijacked by the right to a decision. And now we see how the government drives in with its proposal for a movie campus, and we, the ears limp, approve. And don't tell me the Riigikogu Ambassador is free! Members of the Riigikogu decide, in essence, what the government has proposed to them and requires them to approve as members of the coalition. Is this in line with good practice and is it really the role of the Riigikogu to be a rubber stamp?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U73	I'll start at the end. The role of the Riigikogu is not to be a rubber stamp. As far as these ideas are concerned now, starting on the film campus, these improvements were indeed not proposed by the government in spring. They really came from the opposition, and that a good thing can have good content, that is what happens. There have, of course, been a lot of influence. As an experienced politician and diplomat, you know very well that one is trying to break down the other and the third is trying to break down the fourth, etc., etc., etc. There have been disputes. But I dare say that I do not want to say that I am a good committee. By the way, the Commission is indeed a believer in education and culture and has also suppressed these opinions when someone said that we are throwing Estonia out right now because we do not like it. No, the Commission didn't come to that, we live in the lawroom. But as for the wish to have a good start to the new season, of course, a good start to the new season!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U74	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U75	Thank you again, Mr President. First of all, Mr Helme, how could you have heard what was said here before? You weren't in the hall at the time. But that's it. I wanted to say that I would ask for such a procedural explanation, which does not so much concern the substance of the matter and perhaps is not interesting for everyone who is watching our transfer and for whom this topic is essential. If I understand correctly, both proposals will actually achieve the same result. In the meantime, was there an option for discussion in the course of negotiations with the initiators of these amendments that would allow us to have one amendment to vote on, which would solve the issue of this film campus unambiguously and clearly, and would not have these issues up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U76	I mean, if there had been more time... Indeed, the Commission looked at these proposals and found that one wording corresponds exactly to the current circumstances, and the other supports it, and, if we say it in Parliament's language, it takes the substance into account. Something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U77	Mart Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U78	President-in-Office of the Council. I have a procedural question about the fact that we have a second reading, but also a final vote. Does this mean that speeches can be made by everyone, or only by representatives of the political groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U79	Thank you. In accordance with the rules in force, I am going to speak, but this should be as the second reading is that all members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may take the floor, but a member of the Government of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice may also take the floor if the President authorises it. This is due to § 71. Yeah, that's right. And, of course, then there are also possible receptions. I remember this spring it went pretty well for us, didn't it? This is § 70: If anyone is mentioned, you can make an answer. So it exists, everyone can take the floor. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will come back to this "Manufacturer" issue with my question. The draft states that these are cultural buildings of national importance. Well, I kind of swing at what it might mean, but now at some point we're going to the private playground, still giving this cash injection, that 15 million there. But with it, we're creating injustice against other people who also own some old buildings. For example, let us say that at some point our good colleague Eerik-Niles Kross wants some kind of injection for his Thunder Manor, because it is an object of national importance and under heritage protection. Aren't we going to open a little Pandora's box on this? We could still stick with the objects that belong to the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U81	I mean, ownership is, of course, an important thing, but as I have already tried to respond to the last attempt, this threat is indeed marked. And with cultural capital, there is an agreement that the agreement will guarantee that the cultural object created with the participation of the state will remain a cultural object for public use. And indeed, the owner has made a commitment and made a promise, and if it were to be a retreat, there would always be some kind of trial. And that's not what we want. But this threat has been addressed and I hope it is done professionally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U82	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U83	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. I'd like to ask you one more time for an explanation and maybe your assessment. If we look at the ranking that has now been drawn up here in the chair of the Committee on Culture, then in itself, all are very sympathetic objects. But we know that their maturity dates are very different, and it is not at all that what is first able to go into construction is put first. It's the other way around. The only object that has a construction project is number three. Some of them still need to start running detailed planning, ordering a project, and then you can get to the construction project and the procurement and all that. But the money will be released next year. Does this ranking in this form make sense to you, and why does it end up like this? This method chosen by the Committee on Culture to make this ranking may not have been the most successful one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U84	I mean, when the Committee on Culture looked at which object's documentation has reached the most distant point, the first object, the deadline for its launch, was a real one. As for the third object, it's also well prepared, which is why it's the third.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U85	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U86	Thank you. We have a certain confrontation or discrepancy between private and public funding and activities that have already arisen here in the matters of Kalle Grünthal. My question is whether this is the first step that the country is going to create a monopoly in film making. Because at one point it is so expensive to make a film that without a specific state funding, it is not possible to do so, and every filmmaker will look at the government, the Riigikogu, and expect support. In essence, the State is ultimately obliged to take film production into its own financing in the interests of the profitability of the initial funding it makes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U87	This is not the case with the proposed project.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U88	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U89	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If this ranking, the four names that are now listed here, is cultural capital entitled to take into account the degree of development? There are certain objects that are not as far away from the Rakvere Concert Hall with their documentation as, for example, where practically all you have to do is knock down? Can there be changes or can't there be changes? I have heard very different answers to these questions, and the questioners are very interested in whether this decision will be final if the order is added today, perhaps in five or six more, I hope that the Anu Raud Centre will go in. If everything's ready for construction, can't we do the object?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U90	I mean, the same ideology has been represented by the cultural capital, and they have even been so brave that they think that since they have a basic job on them, they could decide and look at every day we pay money to, to whom tomorrow. However, the initial projects or the initial financing scheme are determined by the decision submitted by the Riigikogu Cultural Committee and approved by the assembly. The practice so far has been that a certain stage of some objects was completed, then a break was made and, in the meantime, it proved useful to finance another object. This has happened in real life. Our job is to make sure that nothing goes against the law. Whether this requires each time that the Riigikogu must approve such technical changes, this issue is theoretically there. The current practice has taken into account the principle of rationality. But not at take-off, but at'step-mezzanine'.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U91	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U92	Thank you, dear waitress. We have heard comments since the coalition decided among themselves that the film campus would be voted in. We have also heard comments that he is likely to move to the last position, which means that it can be financed in 15, 16 or even 17 years' time. Such comments have been made. And there is bridge financing for it, because they want to start building as soon as possible. But this money has a price when the object is financed in the long run, and this price is certainly more than the total cost of Anu Raud Centre. It's probably bigger than that! Have you discussed whether it's rational to place an object in the fifth position that actually goes into construction right now? Would it not be possible, however, to find a more sustainable solution so that bridge financing does not need to be created for a very long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U93	I mean, about the Anu Iron Center, I answered at first and talked about it a little bit longer. If you don't, I won't go over it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U94	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U95	Thank you. In your report, Mr President of the Commission, you mentioned that, while the Committee on Culture had one decision in spring, during the summer, circumstances have emerged that at least made the coalition ambassadors change their mind in the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture has dealt with these objects for a year and a half and, as a result of the spring vote, when there were 44 votes on the table, each member of the committee having four votes, the film campus received only two votes. And now you are saying that something has happened that has made the members of the Commission change their minds and reconsider their preferences. Can you explain this to us so we can understand why we should vote for or against the film campus today? What are these circumstances? What extraordinarily has happened during the summer that the coalition ambassadors in the Committee on Culture have completely, radically, changed their minds at 180 degrees?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U96	Good thing it's not 360 degrees. We have listened to what has been said by the Group of the Fatherland, which has been spoken by Raimond Kaljulaid. But basically, as Chancellor Adenauer replied on her 90th birthday or when it was, maybe I'm wrong in a year. When he was told: "Mr. Chancellor, you spoke a different story last year!"Then a 90-year-old gentleman said that no one is forbidden to become wiser. Not even the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U97	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U98	It is good to hear that the members of the Riigikogu of the coalition's ambassadors have become wiser during the summer. Hopefully, this process will continue in their heads, and at the end of their composition they will become very wise. But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. In the course of the spring discussions and here at first reading, I have realised that the four objects in the ranking are the limit, and we must not cross that line. There's no way there's a fifth object on that list. It is with this argument that the Anu Iron Centre was rejected because it was in the fifth position, which is only 1.5 million. And you told us that more than four objects in our cultural capital budget could not stand, that is not possible. Four objects, and only four objects! What made you think in a different direction that it is quite possible to add a fifth item with a cost of EUR 10 million? Has there been any new information? Is there more money? Are we going to increase the gambling tax so that it comes with more money? Where did all these changes come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U99	Well, I already told you, not in my head. I'm listening to what smart people say first and foremost. But indeed, speaking of new facts, members of the Riigikogu, regardless of their political group, have said that they have made a positive contribution to the success of our film art. That's one side of it. And over and over again, people say, and not only do we have here, but there have also been a few interesting lines in the press that the film campus could be the only cultural object that does not want to receive subsidies from the state later on or to pay operating expenses all the time. Then we have, I don't know whether it's an illusion or a real forecast of cultural activity that can bring in money. That's how it's come to be. I mean, we are still trying to take account not only of what is said in the corridors of Toompea, but also of what is said in the cultural circles spoken among our constituents. That's how wisdom comes, not as I suddenly ate a green bean and became very wise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U100	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U101	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm listening, and I'm getting sadder and sadder. Eduard Odines has already asked my question in part. In the spring you spoke of four objects, and it was very sad that Anu Raud's center was the fifth, immediately below the line. But four was that number. I'm not the opposite of film art and Anu Raud's folk culture center, but now we hear that film art is still the fifth. So maybe there's a chance the sixth object could fit in there? In spring it was said that four is the final number. Today we're gonna get there so there could be five, but all of a sudden it's gonna fit in six? Believe me, Anu Raud, who lives his life for the purpose of preserving our cultural heritage, it is very offensive to him that he remained under the line as the fifth, but in the summer it has become clear that there are much more important objects. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If it was the sixth, I'd be very pleased.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U102	They just gave me skates. Put the skates down and then drive and fall on your ass! The point is, I don't decide whether one proposal for a correction is accepted or two. Well, there can't be any more of them this time, so there'll be an internal procedural contradiction, right? However, if the Riigikogu plenary finds that there are no more suggestions for improvement now, if these things are accepted, there are six objects. That's right! The chairman of the committee is an important figure, but he cannot put his hand forward or swallow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U103	Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question will actually continue on the same subject raised by ladies and gentlemen Mr Odines and Mr Kütt. I would first of all like to congratulate the Commission and all its members on all the political parties that have participated in it. You're in front of an extremely hard nut. And it will be one of the hardest nuts for the Riigikogu for the next few decades, which will always be remembered, as it was in the nineties. Here's my question. Have these objects also been valued on the side of how much they could bring international recognition to Estonia, not only to bring money domesticly but also to bring foreign tourists here, for example? How much would Estonia's international visibility increase as cultural objects? This is definitely where this film campus comes out when you look at the achievements of recent years, how much internationally the Estonian film has made progress. Were other objects assessed on this side?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U105	International cooperation and international recognition, making Estonian culture visible, was one of the points in our sub-criteria on the basis of which the members of the committee made their assessments and scored. There was failure. I think that some people feel sorry for Pärnu objects, for example. According to preliminary analyses, for example, the Pärnu cultural port was very attractive, but since the parties did not reach an agreement because they agreed to let each other 'hole', perhaps I would exaggerate a little, even though at one point, from an international visibility point of view, he was in a high position, he did not finally qualify. It was not even possible to agree on a proper funding scheme. But we tried to take these things into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U106	Thank you, good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I will open negotiations and ask for the Riigikogu Chair Signe Kivi. Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U107	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 19 May this year, I referred in my speech to the verbatim report of the fourth session of the VIII Riigikogu, the draft decision at first reading 387. 25 years ago, on 5 November 1996, a decision was taken in this hall on the construction of the Estonian Academy of Music, the Estonian Art Museum and the Estonian National Museum. The members of the Riigikogu discussed the deadlines for the objects, the financing and the legitimacy of the decision. Krista Kilvet, who gave his presentation on behalf of the Committee on Culture at the time, confirmed, and I quote: "... if the State has committed itself to the construction of cultural objects, it shall also cease." I believe that this is certainly true of the cultural objects mentioned in today's decision. After all, we know that none of the objects mentioned in the decision of the Riigikogu arose without problems in 1996. Moreover, by 2000 the deadline for the construction of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre was set, but the second stage of the study building of this institution, the salikompleks, was only completed in 2019. But he's done. Therefore, the problems and confrontations that inevitably arise must be resolved and compromises are inevitable for large objects. This is how we wish to supplement today's decision to include Tallinn on the list of film campus, as stated in Amendment 3 by the Isamaa Group. Raimond Kaljulaid has proposed the same amendment. Yes, we have previously decided in the Committee on Culture that there are only four objects on the list. Yes, the range of objects is limited by the financial capacity of cultural capital. But the negotiations with the Ministry, Cultural Capital and the City of Tallinn have provided assurance that the film town will be able to build with bridge financing guaranteed by the City of Tallinn and that its repayments will start according to the time schedule for the completion of the objects. This is the decision that filmmakers have been waiting for and which opens up a completely new perspective for the whole audiovisual sector. And we had to find that compromise. Thank you to all those who contributed to the search for a solution. But above all, we must support the amendment today and adopt the draft as a decision. "In the last quarter of the century, most cultural buildings, including large ones, have been built with the support of state and local budgets, European Union aid and private capital, independently of the 1996 decision and cultural capital. " I quote this article by the former Minister of Culture Jaak Allik from April 30th of this year precisely because among the requests received by the Riigikogu's Cultural Committee that did not get into the selection of the draft are certainly objects that arise and perhaps even more quickly are made than the cultural capital objects in the draft. One such important project is Anu Raud's centre in Viljandi County. We can contribute to these decisions here in the Riigikogu as well as in local governments. Recalling history and the decision of 25 years ago, I believe that there are no people in this Chamber today who would not have been proud and had no part in the values and spirit of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, Kumu and ERM. My thanks, and I believe, are due to all of our colleagues who prepared and supported the previous historical decision. Today's bill is also a historic decision of extraordinary weight. 25 years ago, the draft decision was 386 in favour of 57 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, one abstention. Today's Riigikogu sitting was registered by 93 delegates. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I call on all members of the Riigikogu to support the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, we can shape the future. Let's do it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U108	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U109	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Riigikogu! I am in favour of all the amendments that will be voted on today. But being more of a specialist in one field, I'll focus on it. The long-term absence of the film studio has hindered the development of the whole film area and thus the development of a large part of Estonian culture. By establishing a studio complex in Estonia, filmmakers in our region would have the long-awaited opportunity to create films in a controlled environment, in a closed large space. The cyclicality of film production would be reduced. Because of the weather, as we know, most of the shots are taking place this summer. Imagine a situation where the theatre or concert can only be visited in Estonia during the summer because the theatres lack their own houses. Or worse, actors should take samples and musicians and singers to practice as rehearsal halls in abandoned hangars or factory buildings adapted by hand. However, this is the case with film producers. Filmmakers have been forced to go through decades with almost no possibilities. The absence of a studio has placed significant restrictions on the freedom of creation and the diversity of the works being created, so it has often been possible to tell only certain types of stories. The existence of a studio would be a prerequisite for the birth of an even more viable and modern Estonian film. The studio complex would also provide a direct practical experience in the field of secondary growth, with internships for students and start-ups. As the modern studio complex emerges, Estonia's international attractiveness as a film country would certainly grow exponentially, and there would be an important prerequisite for major foreign productions in Estonia. This would encourage both economic and professional development not only in the film sector but also outside it. As a result of exploiting the potential of internationally competitive film production and implementing the film-campus project, Estonia's reputation as a tourist destination would certainly increase as well, as in addition to studio activities, as we know, every film is taken in other places: outdoors, historical buildings, ruins, water, underground. And very often, these locations are located outside Tallinn. So the film campus that is being built would directly support the possibilities of film production throughout Estonia. As the project leaders say: the film campus will cope with its maintenance and later expansion after the start-up costs have been covered. I call on all of you to support the amendment of Isamaa to add Tallinn to the list of cultural buildings of national importance. To doubters and opponents, I would be encouraging to say a few words about the recently published Estonian film "On Water": life is mostly stupid, sometimes it is not. Maybe you'll get a bite today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U110	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please! We have a second reading though, according to the request, the groups have usually been ahead, but since we have this order registered now, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U111	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'd be happy to pick up exactly where Üllar finished Saaremäe. We wanted the best, but it turned out like always. So let's talk about the decision of the Riigikogu, presented by the Committee on Culture, on "Fixing the ranking of building and renovating cultural buildings of state importance" as it is fair. The aim of the Committee on Culture was indeed noble, [it is an opportunity] to make a historic decision. To this end, the procedure was designed, particularly by the good officials of the Commission, to enable us to select cultural buildings of national importance. The decision to come up with this was made about a year and a half ago. It won't be long to read the whole procedure, but it will be brief. It was announced when applications and proposals could be submitted and then a longer internal analysis was carried out. There was the first round, the second was the internal debate and the necessary meetings, and then the second round and the vote. Now there's a result on our table. Although the will was to achieve maximum objective results, the list of objects is, above all, the face of the coalition, and the choice of a ranking can be argued against both on the surface of emotions and objectively, i.e. on the basis of facts. But my complaint is primarily procedural. I'll explain. First of all, we do not know exactly how big the amount of cultural capital in the form of funds is going to reach cultural buildings. At the same time, we are not determined to compromise; a small object no longer fits [in the list]. Why didn't the Reform Party and the Centre Party support the Anu Raud Center? We hope that you will still support this object today. Just 2.5 million euros! Compared to other amounts, this is not enough, and given the fact that we do not know how much cultural capital there is, such a small symbolic object could still be added. Why did you make a purely political decision that culturally means a mistake? Second. We know that there have been objects on the list that received acute criticism. Well, for example, the object of Tartu, which really seems to be supporting the current mayor's campaign in the run-up to the local elections. It is an object that clearly eclipses the second, already built cultural building of national importance in ERM. At the same time, I want to congratulate, like or not, the leaders of the cities of Tartu, Rakvere and Narva for the homework and passion with which they stood up for their affairs. Mayors are definitely one of the winners in this process. A bit of the opposite, perhaps even tragic, is the situation with Estonia's addition. Here it was a procedural mistake made a year ago, mentioned earlier. In recent months, many convincing arguments have been put forward in public as to why the idea of a built-in is not the best. In particular, the reasons for heritage conservation, which have been mentioned by the Heritage Council, the Association of Architects, the Tallinn authorities, as well as very many residents of Tallinn via the media. In view of these reasons and of the many opinions that arose, the Committee on Culture certainly had to meet with the authors of such an opinion, those who asked for it. However, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, this particular meeting did not take place. Opinions were overlooked. And now what can happen? We will close our eyes and vote for a political decision that will never materialise. It is clear that culture can only be developed if we do not violate our legacy by our actions. And there is a risk that we are still violating our cultural heritage in this ranking project. This means that before this final decision we should have taken more time and analysed the nuances relating to a particular subject, whether it can be done at all, which we can vote for. Perhaps, however, there are circumstances which the Commission has overlooked and therefore this object will not materialise? It seems to me that the situation is exactly the opposite of what it looks like. So those who support Estonia's extension do not really support finding a solution to the problems of the Estonian National Opera. I'm asking for an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U112	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U113	As he is currently on the table, this project would rather not be completed, but at the same time other options will be missed, because there will be a political decision on the extension. And then, when we notice that we still can't get the extension, possible other plots are already built. So the situation is exactly where white is actually black. And those who support this object are actually working against this object. There were no other projects left on this list that would be ready for the construction phase and could have become real buildings of national importance. The original version, which is currently on the table, includes the Tallinn Film City and ERSO and the Philharmonic Chamber Choir Concert Hall and the projects submitted by them. Yes, we now know that there must be a positive political decision on film campus in this Chamber today, and that is very positive. But what does this decision mean in real life? There may be questions here and it would certainly be necessary to clarify this before we vote. And in that respect, I really look to the coalition. For the final conclusion. The original idea, creating a ranking for building and renovating important national cultural buildings, was crucial, historic. But in the final phase, the Committee on Culture may have put a little more questions on the table than I'd like to. Yeah, apparently, every person thinks he's got a lot of nice objects. For example, Narva's "Manufacturer" object seems very important to me. But the whole is questionable and controversial. There are also questions that the Commission could not find answers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U114	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rarely have to make speeches like this here. What's the rarity, I'll explain a little later. At first, as a representative of the Central Party Group on this board, I declare that we support the adoption of this decision. We think it is well prepared and well weighed. A little more about regional policy and my hometown. Never... What does that mean? Throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, Narva was driven by the industry of this city. Once, 5,000 people worked in a factory like Baltijets, and now there is just an industrial area with a maximum of one-tenth of those who used to work there. There were 5,000 employees in Narva power plants and 97% of the electricity that Estonia received from Narva. At present, there are fewer than 2,000 people working with subsidiaries, well below it. And in Kreenholm, when I worked there, 13,000 people worked. Only these three companies employed 22000 or 23000 people. That means they were involved in the whole city's life. At least half the city was involved with Kreenholm. It is very difficult to describe and somehow explain to you what kind of feelings come upon any Narva, when he is now entering Kreenholm territory, where life was once boiled, where up to a quarter of Estonia's GDP was estimated to be produced, and so on. It's all empty now. Luckily, the buildings that have remained there are under heritage protection. Fortunately, they see a certain value. And clearly, if the industry is no longer there and it comes back, it is unlikely that it will have to look for other engines. These engines are industrial sites, they're in other places. Three Narva industrial parks have over 50 companies. But for the second engine, I've said it a long time ago and many times, it's Kreenholm, the Kreenholm Islands. It is not possible to restore them with the aim of bringing back some kind of industry, but it is possible to create such bodies that will fill it with Kreenholm. And when starting from the cultural quarter, it gives the narvas a reason to thank the Riigikogu for such a decision. Those who have attended events, opera shows and concerts on Kreenholm territory know this place. That's what's gonna be on the cultural quarter. And the owners put the same resources on it: they give as much money as the state or cultural capital. The Swedes give just as much. And so it is possible to lay the foundations for a new city of Narva, a new stage of development. This is what keeps young people present, making sure this territory doesn't just die out. It's important to our entire region, the East Viru. This is important for Estonia as a whole. So I just want to thank those who prepared this decision and those who support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U116	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U117	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! The film campus that could reach this list as a result of today's vote on our decision is, of course, a regionally important issue. He's perfect for that Paljassaare peninsula near Kopli in northern Tallinn, like cast. If this initial plan to establish a film town in the territory of the Baltic Manufacturer did not materialise, then I, as the parent of North Tallinn, found it, and the entire government of North Tallinn then found that we had to do everything we could to make it very important, so that this campus would still come to North Tallinn. And to do so, the district government gave up a certain territory that had previously received rental income. It was handed over to a company owned by the city, and precisely so that it could go on with this film campus project and it would come to North Tallinn. Of course, new jobs and the economic benefits that I hope will be generated are very important for this region. Of course, there are risks involved in this project, but we believe that it can be done in such a way that it pays itself off at some point. But by putting my hand on my heart, I would support this project and its addition if it came to Tartu or Pärnu or Paide or to Kärdla or Kuressaare. This is an extremely important initiative for Estonian filmmakers. For years and years, countless people have stood up for this project. I think it deserves support. I also believe that this is important in terms of cooperation between the Estonian state and its capital Tallinn, which I hope would be an example of successful cooperation. We know there have been problems here over the years. There has been no confidence that the state could come along with Tallinn's projects. Let me give you an example of Tallinn City Hall. In 2016 it was agreed that the state and city will reconstruct City Hall in cooperation. But this summer, there was an event on the roof where this building began to move lightly, and experts have confirmed that this building is dangerous, dangerous to collapse. He stands and no progress has been made in these five years. Or the Tallinn Hospital project, the funding of which cannot and cannot be agreed, because among other things there is no trust between the city authority and the state, which should actually be. And that's understandable. If we take the example of this same film campus, its properties will be managed and one of its parties will be Tallinn Industrial Parks. When you look at Tallinn's website and the management of Tallinn Industrial Parks and its council, you will see that there are six members in this council and four of these six people happen to be members of the leading party in our city. And one of the remaining two is the directly subordinate mayor of the city's leading party, and the other is the direct subordinate of the deputy mayor, and the deputy mayor himself is also a member of the council. So one member of the supervisory board is subordinate to another member of the supervisory board. As far as I know, none of them have any special experience in what they do. That's the leadership. And, of course, I can also imagine from the state, from public officials, being cautious about doing this sort of thing. One of these members of the council is Deputy Mayor Eha Võrk, who recently received suspicion for giving false stories. In the future, it would certainly be much easier for us in this Chamber to support these cooperation projects and initiatives if the management of the capital, the administration of matters were fair, transparent. And that's what they're working for, I think, a lot of people in this room. I'd like more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U118	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U119	Thank you very much. As regards the procedural aspect that I touched on in my questions and which the chairman of the committee explained to us, by the end of the day, of course, it does not matter who then exactly proposed what was going through. What is important is that we achieve this result, that we receive funding for this project. It would not have been a problem to actually reach an agreement before this second reading. I think the Fatherland would certainly have been willing to negotiate constructively, and I would have been willing to negotiate constructively. But in any case, I think that both of these proposals have contributed to the fact that we are here today at a point where, after all, this answer is not a definite 'no', but is'maybe' depending on how we vote. And that's a big deal, because it's not "no" "hunting" that directly sometimes, that "maybe" in the meantime is a very important stopover. That's where we've come out. Now, our good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, spoke of Narva Kreenholm, and I understand very well what he meant by this. It is, yes, such an inevitability that the structure of the economy will change over time. One type of production is replaced by another. After all, North Tallinn had a large number of industrial plants, large territories where a wide variety of products were produced and where production continues today, but one and zeros are produced. And this production of singles and zeros is even the most profitable activity than the production of these ancient iron bullshits and cast iron Old Thomas and what they did in these northern Tallinn factories. So in northern Tallinn, where there are a lot of companies that are world-class, able to produce ones and zeros and line them up, there would also be an opportunity to, among other things, engage in film art, TV series, which today are not only the kind of series of Santa Barbara that some older people may remember in this hall, but are actually works of art in their own right. I didn't mean you, Ivi! In this sense, I tell you, good friends, good colleagues, don't be afraid of this commercial aspect of film art. Indeed, certain artistic ambitions and commercial pursuits are linked, but there is nothing wrong with that, and there is no need to worry about that. What is important is that there are opportunities to create Estonian film art, world film art, new interesting jobs and opportunities for companies that do not apply for income, as well as for associations that apply for income. There is nothing wrong with that, too, and there is nothing to be ashamed of. So I thank you all, and I very much hope that in one way or another, we will arrive today on this film campus, where we were at the "no" and now we are at the "maybe," finally to the "yes." So if this question comes to you, vote yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U120	And now it's Helmen Hunter's turn. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U121	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to build the Anu Rau folk culture centre, 1.5 million euros were requested from the cultural capital. Regrettably, the object in the Committee on Culture remained the fifth in the spring vote. This folk culture centre could be completed within the next two years, so probably before the three major objects presented to us even reach the results of the architectural competition. Against this background, it would be very reasonable to add this object and we have also made a proposal to add it to the list. All of us in this Chamber could cast our votes to make sure that happens. Why would we do that? I cannot tell you long history in eight minutes, but I will stop at some important milestones based on the "Heimtal Guide" issued by the Estonian National Museum in 2020. I quote it because I don't think all the good guys have read it. But maybe I can interest myself, and some will take on this little guide, read it, and better yet, go to Heimtal and get acquainted with the activities of this wonderful person, Anu Raud. It's a place with a special spirit. So the excerpts from the Heimtal Guide. In 1994, Anu Raud will buy a schoolhouse and community house that has stood in the parish centre after the local Soviet sovhos and will move to Kääriku farm. During the following years, Anu Raud Kääriku will grow its premises to 60 hectares, creating ever better conditions for Heimtal than for the developing regional cultural centre. Anu Rau's activities as a textile artist, university lecturer and academician have brought Heimtal much recognition both at home and beyond. Academician and professor emeritus Anu Raud is the hardware of Estonian carpet art. During nearly 50 years of creative activity, he has been able to create a school of carpet artists, taught hundreds of young people how to make carpets, and how to keep the spiritual and material heritage of their ancestors alive. A wealthy collection of folk art has gathered today. Heimtal Museum, parish house, Kääriku farm has become an excellent internship base for students of the Estonian Academy of Arts who can learn about the countryside and touch, explore and draw gloves, socks, carpets, belts and larger objects. Internships spent at Anu Raua are spoken of as legends such as the study trips of Kaljo Põllu Siberia. In 2009, when the Estonian National Museum celebrated its 100th birthday, Anu Raud decided to give his private museum, property and collections to the ERM in order to ensure further development of the museum. In the gift contract, museum collections, 1.5 hectares of land and warehouse buildings went to ERM. The value of the contract at the time was EEK 2,6 million, or EUR 166000. The collections of ERM were completed by 1148 items, 977 photos and a document. From 1 June 2010, the museum is officially known as the Museum of ERM Heimtal. Anu Raud's unrelenting energy, sense of mission and activity inspires people both in this region and throughout Estonia and brings the museum to the international tourist map, which has become a cultural and educational centre. Anu Raudvara, founded by Anu Raudvara, has purchased an old school building, organized it and made it a accommodation centre. Students, textile artists and just lovers of textile art from Estonia and also from farther away to Japan have found their way there. Artists, writers, official representatives of countries, also diplomats. A special place-spirited attraction center is Anu Raud's lifework and life creation, where he has also placed his personal money in scholarships, various bonuses, as well as the fees he has received for his work. In short, it could be said that his life and creation have been a living life for Estonia and the preservation of our cultural heritage. Supporting the Anu Raud Centre would be a tribute to him and to all other people who stand up for cultural heritage. Honourable fellows! The multifunctional centre in Heimtal, Viljandi County, is designed as an internship and creative centre, as well as a nature centre. This centre is not a pompous and large-scale building suitable for a large city. Just as Anu Raua's rug picture is simple, its colors may be glove - colored and the grey hairs of the sombus sky, this center would be full of warmth, alertness, wisdom, and goodness. This centre would be important to maintain the link between nature, the environment and heritage. This centre would be regionally extremely important. It would be open to both major events and smaller exhibitions. The centre would provide better opportunities for students to conduct outdoor study days and time travels, would be an ideal place for organising children's camps, a favourite place for art and creative people. But this would also suit the students of the Estonian Academy of Arts as a place of folk art practice and many more. Good fellows! It was the carpet tree of Estonian folk costume skirts created by Anu Raud that gave Estonia to the United Nations when we joined the United Nations, and it still stands in the main building of the United Nations. At this historic moment, we needed Anu Rauda. Let us look inside ourselves and ask, " Do we not need him and his art today? ' If we include Anu Raua Centre in Heimtal, we can be sure that in three years' time, two buildings supported by us will be ready and both of them will be outside Tallinn. I mean Rakvere and Heimtal. And we would not do any harm to the financing of major objects with this decision. On behalf of Anu Raud, I would ask for support in voting on this amendment, which would also give the opportunity to build this centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U122	Helle-Moonika Helme, please! Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U123	Good vice chairman! Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, and everyone who watches us by transmission! I would like to begin by describing and opening, as a member of the Committee on Culture, this long process, which has arrived here today in the grand hall of the Riigikogu, and about which the introduction of the draft states that the content of this draft is the confirmation of the ranking of the construction and renovation of important cultural buildings at national level. I have read the so-called title of this draft decision here and emphasised the lumbar word set'stress line validation'. The introduction of the bill also indicates the objective, i.e. to confirm the ranking as follows: Tartu city centre cultural centre, Narva Kreenholm cultural quarter "Manufaktuur," Arvo Pärt music house in Rakvere, the building of the current building of the Estonian National Opera. These objects are not on this list and in such a ranking by chance or in any way overstepping, the Committee on Culture has long worked hard to achieve such a result. However, this process has not only been long and thought out; it has also been very transparent: from the moment of the announcement to the last two votes, everything has been public and I would argue democratic. I don't know how in other groups, but I imagine that they were going through more or less the same process as in our EKRE group. All the members of the group were able to get acquainted with all the objects, to express an opinion, and we have shaped a certain attitude of all of them together. And before the last vote in the Committee on Culture, we carried out an internal vote on the 11 items that had remained on the scene, and according to what received the greatest support in the group, I and Leo Kunna went to the committee and gave our votes just as we gave them. Two voting processes were also carried out in the Committee on Culture: objects and rankings. And therefore, this major and concluding work should be completed. Unfortunately, we see that we have come here today in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu with four amendments concerning two items that were not included in the list and in the final decision. It is understandable in itself; the process gives us this opportunity. However, to some extent it has such a taste of excruciating and lobbying. It would certainly have been desirable to involve so many other objects in the process of amendments, and it could not be resented by anyone. This will certainly attract attention and give rise to further discussions. But right now we are in a situation where some parties are more noble, making suggestions for improvements speak for a certain area, putting others in a situation where we may not support it and maybe risk getting the title of the enemy in this area to the fore. It's really not fair. There were also people in our party whose heart was to support the Anu Raud Centre and whose heart is the Estonian film. However, the list of objects became exactly as it was in our group and in the Commission. I have just described how democratic, consensual, open and transparent the whole process was. If, now, the objects of cultural objects should be added to the list of cultural objects when voting on amendments, it is certainly not good practice to make such a decision. For both of these objects, which are in the amendments, it was said that the state could rather finance them directly. The money going to the Anu Raud Centre is actually so small compared to others, it could be found using other mechanisms. And the film campus is certainly essential, but it could go on in other ways, not using the funding mechanisms for cultural capital, which are actually cumbersome and time-consuming for this area. The film industry is technically simply moving away so quickly, if they were added to the list, they would be hopelessly behind time, especially if they were placed in fifth place. However, moving him somewhere else goes against what we are voting on today, that is the ranking line. What do I want to say in the end? With all due respect for the objects in the amendments, if we finally deal with this draft decision in this large Chamber against its content, which is the confirmation of the ranking, we will do so by adding new objects, it will be a distrust to the whole Committee on Culture and also to the Chairman of the Committee on Culture. It is also a distrust of the inter-group consensus. If the government takes away 3 million from the film people before and now wants to pretend that the Estonian film is important to them, directing the process by making the coalition ambassadors vote accordingly, then it is not so easy. That's not what you do! But otherwise, as it has been the custom to say lately, the voices are free, or as one song says: do you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U124	And now Imre Sooäär says what he knows.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U125	Thank you, good Hanno! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a desire to share some observations with you so that there are no misconceptions that have sounded from this speaker and may mislead us about our decision. First of all, adding a film campus to this list is certainly not just a proposal from Isamaa and Raimond Kaljulaid. I, too, proposed this, as well as a number of members of the central group. I'm pretty sure there were some in all the other groups. Otherwise, it would not be possible to reach this consensus today. I hope we get it. Indeed, the film campus is important, as has been repeatedly claimed on this platform. Let's take a look at a bigger international picture. No other field of culture has received as many international nominations and awards as our fine filmmakers have done in recent years. Of course, it brings international recognition to Estonia, tourists to come here. We are seen as players in this area, and if we have some kind of groove going on, I don't want to call it a gold mine, but Hollywood calls it that, too, this line should be kept and not just viewed from a local point of view. Local authorities are, of course, crucial in implementing these projects, as we heard in this hall about Narva, both about Rakvere and about Viljandi, as well as about Tartu. Without their support and support, these projects cannot be implemented. And, of course, the Anu Rau centre is also worthy of support, both on a local scale and in terms of Estonian culture as a whole, with its very unique works, but it may be possible to put backs together on the EAS, the local government and other organisations supporting this field in order to prepare the Anu Rau centre as well. Not everything just fits into the national cultural list. I would like to remind you of an object for which the honourable colleague Signe Kivi fought for years. It was a beautiful project of the new art academy next to the department store, which would have illustrated the city picture, would have been an architectural gem, but unfortunately, many sad circumstances did not make it come true. We had to accept a smaller space program and a smaller building. But these ideas must be fought for. And honour those who carry these projects and fight for them, because this process in itself carries Estonian culture forward. Dear colleague Viktoria Ladynskaja! ... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Thank you. Black is not white and white is not black. Those who support the development of the national opera, in whatever form, either as an additional building or as a separate project, will not fight it at the same time. That's an inadequate opinion. As an alumni at the music academy, I would be very pleased to have our National Orchestra, the Estonian National Symphony Orchestra, our fine chamber choirs and other music collectives in their halls. I would be very happy about that, but I understand that it is not possible to put everyone on the same list. To this end, it is possible to find other instruments and projects, how they can also be done, so that these internationally highly worthy collectives can have the respect they deserve. Not as we saw here today at the beginning of the Riigikogu sitting, where our elite chamber choir sings on the balcony and one group is absent at this time. It wasn't a respectable conductor against Kaljuste and our chamber choir. Things like this shouldn't happen in this hall. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U126	Please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U127	At the same time, the list of objects is crucial, and I think that including the film campus in this list is ultimately important to all of us, regardless of what areas we represent, where we have worked before, where we have experience. Because finally, when we go to these buildings, when they're all finished, we remember that once in this Chamber we discussed these issues and we all gave a green light to these objects together, not just some of us or some party or some group that could cheer us up for it. No, it was made by the Riigikogu as a whole, and it will have the support of all of us. Therefore, by your conscience, support all the proposals that are in this Chamber today and make it a good list of what we can be proud of in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U128	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U129	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! Art is not an art, art is seen in art. Is it? That's how Toe Tag started his own story. Indeed, art is part of culture, and now I can introduce to many that it is called political art in our political culture. And you could call it political art, how we can explain things, and how sometimes we actually enjoy it. That this list is as it is, it has already been evaluated and it has been argued against here. I'd like to explain to ordinary people. We are talking about important cultural objects, but culture itself is an extremely broad concept. When we say that there is no "pull centre" in some regions, of course we mean some kind of subculture by culture. But is it vital to support such a scale of subcultures now? Subcultures of any-will still change their forms. Perhaps, at some point in time, they are no longer important, because the means by which this kind of culture is carried out change to some extent, and that is what time and beyond maybe later be said to be a culture of the people. That's what they used to say about archaic things. But today we're in a new situation. So making our art is that we're creating some sort of criteria. One of these is the regional concept. I would remind you that Viru Keskus, as such, was also planned as an art building, that all artists would rent beautiful galleries and everything, but the entrepreneur is aware of the obligation to pay all kinds of bills and the artists will not be able to rent galleries. Solaris, too. And then there will be business in the inner city of Tartu, not in the suburbs. Well, we were in Tallinn talking about fixing up the Nõmme Cultural House, but wait, we have others, what about them? And then, if the end still doesn't come out, you can make a shop there. We actually have a bookstore in Solaris. And there's two at Viru Center. So these criteria are actually met, but people don't understand it. And what they don't exactly understand is this. Here described very precisely, was given a thorough overview of what the object it is, which is its purpose, which is its purpose. You see, that's good! But just so somebody talks, for example... I do not mind if there is another shopping centre or such a centre in Tartu. It could actually happen later, and it has to be on that property. I'm not a Tartian. I'm not going to teach them. But I would like an explanation of how much Tartu's culture and subculture would actually lose because it is not there. I've been hanging out in Tartu and I've been supporting myself quite culturally, but obviously it's a subculture and it's not something to talk about right now. I understand that we want to create cultural quarters in different regions. The argument is that Pärnu doesn't fit because we wanted the region and the other one. Today, we're going to have this art until it hits with a hammer, and it's settled. So until then, in political culture, we are dealing with political art, or we are calling something extremely important culture and something more marginal. Because life is like, who likes the theatre, like the nobler, and who likes the movie again, for example, for me, the bench neighbor of the nobler. So I think there will be an interesting vote, and if it is possible, vote on your conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U130	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U131	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no objection to this list, to the ranking, and perhaps it has even been as Helle-Moonika Helme described that this process has been transparent and good. However, I do not agree that no one should change their mind. If there is a political party in the coalition that voted in the same way in the Commission but has changed its mind for some reason now, it is right to do so in any case. As long as we have not made a decision in this Chamber, it is reasonable for everyone to vote as they consider reasonable. Whether the list remains as it came from the Commission, or whether it changes in support of some amendments, it really does not matter who made this amendment, but who supports it. But what still bothers me about all this is that it seems to me that if we make this decision, it is still not a decision worthy of this hall. When I asked questions to the Commission's rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, I did not get quite clear answers. And I do not think it would be reasonable and good to expel decisions that we ourselves cannot provide unambiguous answers to. Can you change the ranking or can't you? Aadu Black said yes, the ranking we're rowing here, it goes out of here as a decision, and no one can change that. It is said, however, that under certain conditions there are special cases that are reasonable to resolve with change in this modern world. I don't know what that means. Is the ranking that we confirm today a ranking according to which the Cultural Endowment of Estonia must build these objects in this order, or is it possible for the Cultural Endowment to change it? Or do we have to regroup in this hall to change it? I think that this must be clear and unambiguous, and that is why it is very difficult for me to support this decision by supporting all these objects. If we do not realise that we are creating further confusion for the institution with our decision, I do not think that is a good thing. It makes sense for us to complete our work properly. And as far as the amendments are concerned, indeed, if the Social Democrats and Raimond Kaljulaid have made a concrete proposal to put something first, then the Fatherland has proposed something where there is no. And this does not concern the logic or rules of the Estonian language. It is the Committee on Culture who will take this decision, that is, if we have to support this change in this large Chamber, that, in my best understanding, the Committee on Culture must meet and decide on the final list to be approved by Parliament's plenary when the amendments have been voted through. Perhaps this decision on the order of the list will come from the Committee on Culture and we will see that when the amendments have been voted through. For some objects, the explanatory memorandum shows the differences between the different institutions as to whether or not the object can be made. I think we're upsetting. I think it should be much clearer that the objects that are put on this list are Parliament's will: we want these objects to be established. As was the case with our previous decision when Parliament took a decision on Kumu, ERM and EAMT. They're finished. But if there are any questions in the air today, I think it would be wise to solve them. In the case of the National Opera, for example, we do have a common understanding, an interest in having the National Opera either get a new building or an extension, but we also need to have an understanding that it will happen. But I am not sure that it is possible to understand this unambiguously with regard to today's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U132	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U133	Colleagues! I didn't want to take the floor. I thought we had an agreement in the group that Moonika would make our speech. But here a wise man tended to teach our group how politics can or can be done. Don't! We can handle this ourselves, and I don't think it's bad. And since I'm already on the remote, I'm still talking about it. I am talking about this from a point of view, as I have had the impression of these debates not only today, but also in the group. Of course, we have been constantly discussing the affairs of the Committee on Culture. As an uncultural person, as I am, I sometimes end up in a theatre and sometimes in a concert, and basically get my culture from Classical Radio in musical form. But I think I have some kind of idea of culture after all. My understanding of the conclusion of all these struggles is as follows. And it's not happy. This is not positive, and I would especially like to put my heart to the representatives of the Reform Party: please think about it! We are moving towards a national cultural policy. We are moving in the direction that the state must finance, the state must build, the state must give some kind of income to someone. No, you don't! Where does it say the state does? The state does not have to build Anu Raud's centre; the state does not even have to build Estonia. The state does not have to if there are other possibilities. However, the state can and has a constitutional obligation to invest in strategically important areas, including buildings. What does that mean? It means a very simple thing. This means that the fate of the nation and state will be decided in three places: in a heterosexual bedroom, in a battlefield, on a battlefield, it means that the people must also have courage, will and ability, a weapon in their hands, stand up for themselves at school and in a cultural field. If the nation does not have a thirst for an independent cultural identity, no public funding, no building will help to keep this nation and culture upright. And it has to be understood. The money with two hands to and from here, of course, corruptly lands there often and in the cup it's meant to be. And now if we look at this list of the four objects that were originally, we can see very clearly that there is only one object of national importance here. One nationally important object, which is Estonia. The rest is a political agreement. One coalition party gets one thing, the other coalition party gets another thing, and a little so that it doesn't complain too much, some opposition party gets one thing. Take it, be content, don't complain! Well, we remember how complicated that list of four was. And it was like an agreement in the spring that it would stay that way. But then it was decided at one point that, no, no, we're all equal. But there's more equality among equals. And among those more equal, there were MPs who proposed improvements. We know very well that from these suggestions for improvement... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U134	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U135	We know very well that only one of these improvements has been scheduled to pass through. Only one is meant to go through! Because that's the deal. We'll find out in a little while if I'm right. We're about to find out if I'm right. I kind of... I don't know, I'm running some kind of ink on it, but the ink isn't served here. But we're about to find out. And this, I say, is a very bad practice. It breaks the little trust we have here between the ambassadors and the political groups. Without trust, however, it is also very difficult for us to maintain the Estonian state. I don't think everyone understands it, but it is. And that is why we discussed in the group this morning and found that there was nothing really wrong with this film campus thing. That's a pretty nice thing on its own. But we can't accept the procedure of crossing Aadu Black, crossing the spring deal, that kind of thing has come to the table. And don't tell me I wasn't born yesterday, for God's sake! That the ambassadors are free. We're free, too. We got out of the hall. We left the hall because we don't like school activities where some characters come to us to read words about what we can or can't be. I'm 71 years old, I'm sick of schooling, and I don't want schooling in this hall either. Let's not do school activities here, we're the government, we're the political elite of the country! But it didn't sound like that here today. And that is why, my friends, we decided that we would release the vote on the amendments. Personally, I do not support the amendments in protesting how this has been achieved. I understand that some people here are embarrassed that they have to vote this way because of a coalition agreement, as the price of the coalition's survival. But, well, once again, everyone is free and decides. Everyone is free and decides. I chose not to support these improvements. I would like to stress that I am not against the Estonian film industry, the Estonian filmmaking industry. I think the Estonian film is quite a peculiar phenomenon. I'm usually very bored looking at them myself. This typical Estonian temperament, can't be lucky at first, can't be stopped afterwards, long dragging tirates. In short, I do not like the Estonian film. But I understand that it is a kind of phenomenon in the world, and outside Estonia it can be liked. And that's why I think we're making these movies because I don't like it. But let's do it right, honestly, transparently, not slippery, whisper-- and I don't know what kind of jock schemes we use! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U136	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U137	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Different ideas and solutions have been discussed here today and are criticised in the same way and praised in the other way. I don't think anyone in this room has the right to say that one object is worse or better than the other. It is extremely sad to hear the opinions that somebody is, I don't know, agreed and decided and at some point should not be re-decided. I do hope that all 101 members of the Riigikogu will be free in their decisions and at the same time discuss the matter with their political group and colleagues from other political parties. It is sad that this decision-making process is, I think, very early in the Commission and has certainly been tried to do the best, but if we make these decisions today, it is sad to say that we do not exactly understand what we are ultimately deciding. Let's look at Estonia, the National Opera building! It says here it has to be where it is today. Maybe it's right. However, when we read the opinions of architects and heritage conservation people in the press, as a person with a specialty in construction, I feel that it is impossible to build there. And whether or not they're allowed to build there, it's finally the decision of the authorities, not the decision of this hall. But we in this Chamber today decide that it can only be there. Does Estonia need an opera house? I'm sure he does. For us who are the singing people, the cultural people, this is important. But does it have to be in the decision, where, how and when it will be built? The architectural competition finally decides, and first the city government must set the conditions for which the building is designed, how and under what conditions, which architectural competition will be explained by the winner, and then the result will be known. Today we will also vote on the amendments. A lot has been said about the film campus. Friends, if you look at this list here, this is probably the only item that will most likely start managing itself in the future and also bringing money into the Estonian state budget. It is questionable to criticise this and I hope that most members of the Riigikogu will support this proposal for improvement. After all, it is the right decision to support a culture in which entrepreneurs, too, are willing to contribute. In the future, [this object] will no longer ask for more money from the state budget, but will bring more money into the state budget as taxes. This is, in my opinion, the only right decision. I'm sure the Anu Raud Centre is also a hot topic in this hall. Well, there are different ideas and opinions. On the one hand, the question is whether we can grant support to one individual from the state budget or through cultural capital or from another fund. On the other hand, it should be taken into account that one person has recorded his life's work and created a great deal of culture, taught and trained, and also put his property in it to get something beautiful. And the amount you need is so small. I agree with the chairman of the committee... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U138	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U139	I agree with the chairman of the committee that this amount is such that it may not have to be on this list. But at the same time, I would have liked the Commission to have said that we would certainly come back to this issue in the debate on the state budget. Finally, I would like to say that, in 1996, when former colleagues made a decision in this very Chamber, and next year these items should be prepared and funded according to the financing model. Do we have to wait another 25 years for these four or five objects? Perhaps it is more appropriate to take the amount between 100 and 200 million out of the state budget, to build the buildings and then agree that the sums received by the cultural capital will be received by the state budget for a certain period, and the following decisions will be taken when discussing whether culture is particularly supported, for example, by sport or others. But if they start designing today, I think they'll start building in a year or two, and we all know in this hall that in 25 years the price of these objects will be more expensive than today when we build. In this very hall, it was proposed at the beginning of this century that we will build the Tallinn highway for four lines. Today, with the same money that would have made everything ready, we can make it 10 kilometers. So today, when we make a decision, we could support the bill and not perhaps weep so much for the order. But you could think in the debates on the state budget that maybe it is possible to make financing decisions faster and show that we are a cultural people and care about our people and our culture, and to build these necessary items more quickly. The objects that we want to build are certainly still, and indeed, but at least these five objects could be completed quickly, and we could discuss, either during this or the next composition, which major cultural objects should be the following, which would need to be built in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U140	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have often been in agreement with the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Aadu Must, when I ask questions from this speaker and from the floor. But today is one thing I can't agree with him in any way. And those are the strange words in Aadu's mouth. When he answered our questions, he quoted one of his colleagues from the Committee on Culture, not mentioned their names, if I understood correctly, who had said that the Anu Raud Centre had something to discuss in this context, something like going to the Air Force parade with a kite. Maybe I'm quoting a little inaccurately, but I think the idea was something like this. Aadu will correct me when I was seriously wrong. We know very well that the content of things cannot always be measured in budget numbers. As a people who have repeatedly admitted that, even though we never grow up in numbers, we want to grow up in spirit, we should be particularly careful when we start measuring the content of our culture in square meters, in euros, in the market, or in something very simply and black in white. And when we talk about national cultural buildings, the importance of national cultural buildings, i.e. the importance of these buildings for the preservation and development of our national cultural traditions, has been repeatedly heard in this Chamber, as has the principles formulated by the Committee on Culture. And now, in this context, if we look at the Anu Raud Centre, Anu Raud's lifework, I can say with absolute certainty that it will not fall behind any of the objects already on this list and that it will probably be added to the list. Therefore, without calling into question the fact that these are necessary objects, either in their regional policy or in their wider sense, my strong call for you to support the Socialist Amendment and we would also add Anu Rauda Centre to these objects. Of course, I am also pleased that the film campus is promising to take shape, and I call on you to support this amendment, as the Social Democrats do. I am somewhat sorry about [one thing]. To some extent, this ties in with the debate on how the Riigikogu could do its work better, which the President initiated today in giving a speech to us. But here perhaps it is not about the capacity of the Riigikogu, but about how demanding the Riigikogu is against its partners. I think that this whole process would be much more reliable for us, [if we knew better] what would actually become of these objects, what really is the perspective of these objects, which is actually their cost, and in what time frame it would be reasonable to plan them. [And that would have been possible if we had had a clear partner. And this partner is by law the Ministry of Culture and cultural capital. Because pay attention, not for nothing, according to the law, the chairman of the Cultural Capital Council is not the acting Minister of Culture. This competence has gone a long way past these discussions and we have not, in fact, received clear views, clear support or, in fact, criticism of what has come together here. We also do not know what time horizon this can be accomplished. I'm really sorry about that. This process would have been much clearer... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U142	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U143	...and we can make our decision today with a much calmer heart. I hope that the Cultural Capital Council, despite this, will be able to make these decisions in these circumstances so that the tax money that comes from the budget for cultural capital for these important items will be used as best as possible. I also hope that similar processes in the future will be clearer, better managed and by those who have to take some responsibility in the form of expertise, also with a better sense of responsibility. But ultimately, I am pleased that there is reason to hope that the Riigikogu will reach a decision today. And those people who have been waiting for the opportunity to start their work in the direction of construction will be able to start working on objects that will surely please us all repeatedly and repeatedly in the future. Thank you for your attention and your strength to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U144	Aadu Black, speaking from the floor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U145	It is very natural that the Lord's world is the richer it is. Some people like figure skating, another hockey, a third basketball, and all of them need attention. It's bad when they're all trying to play in one square. It seems reasonable that one particular thing is carried out according to one of the rules, and it would therefore be extremely sympathetic if the Riigikogu, when discussing important national cultural objects, remained within the framework of the law. On the subject of my reply, my recommendation was to communicate with cultural capital and its council. Dear friends, we have been in close contact with the Ministry of Culture, with cultural capital, with the Cultural Capital Council, and, amazingly, our opinions, the Committee on Culture and the Cultural Capital Council have come together. Also for the first option.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U146	Got it! There are no more requests for speech and speech. I will close the negotiations and now we will vote on the amendments according to our rules. The first amendment is tabled by Mr Kaljulaid, and the proposal of the commission of directors is disregarded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U147	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U148	Then let's prepare it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are discussing amendments to the draft decision of the Riigikogu on "Fixing the ranking of the construction and renovation of state-of-the-art cultural buildings." Amendment 1 will be put to the vote before you. It has been presented by Raimond Kaljulaid, and the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U149	By 20, against 51, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, is the proposal of the commission to disregard. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U150	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would certainly ask for this amendment to be voted to support the financing of the Anu Raud Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U151	Got it! Since we have just voted, do you agree that we are going to the vote? Thank you! I shall put another amendment to the vote before you. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U152	Nineteen to 44. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment, tabled by the Isamaa Group, has been rejected by the commission. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U153	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U154	That's it! Do you agree here that we are going to the vote? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the third amendment, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U155	The proposal was supported by 73 respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled in favour of the Isamaa Group; the commission has disregarded it. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U156	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I am also asking for this amendment to be voted on and for the ambassadors to carry on in the same way with conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U157	Got it! Can we go to the vote? No objections. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put the fourth amendment to the vote before you. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U158	by 19, with 37 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have examined the amendments. Mr. Black, you had a finger up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U159	I have a procedural proposal. The point is that, in order to avoid misunderstandings, to which dear colleague Priit Sibul has just pointed out, I propose that the President take a 30-minute break so that the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu can meet and include an amendment to the text of the draft. This is so that everyone will have the correct text before the final vote, which will be voted in favour. And if this proposal is acceptable, I would ask the Committee on Culture to meet in the cafe's extra hall or trap or what it is called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U160	I understand your proposal, although I must admit that the proposal that we voted on is generally clear: adding, which means that it is going to the end. But I also understand the desire of the Committee on Culture to present a completed text to the Chamber, which can be confirmed by a hammer strike by the President of the sitting. We have indeed introduced an amendment. Mr. Ossinovski, do you have a question about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Refresh the memory of me and perhaps another colleague in relation to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. My colleague, Black, proposed replacing the text on which the item is based in the middle of the agenda item. Does the Rules allow such a thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U162	The Rules of Procedure provide that if an amendment is voted on, it will be introduced. The question now is that if the Committee on Culture wishes to bring a draft before the hall for clarity, before I knocked it off with a hammer. Then everyone would see that the point voted in is in order number 5. To this end, I will take the chairman's break and we will fix the text so that we can also put in a nicely integrated system for handling the EMS, or drafts. Gentlemen and ladies, do we really need to start wasting time on this? Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U163	We'll try to make it through 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U164	I think it is a good proposal to be able to do this in 15 minutes, but we still have to resolve the procedural issue that has arisen in Mr Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U165	I have the same line of reasoning as Mr Ossinovski's pointing out that what is a funny camouflage operation now? Specific amendments will be voted in Parliament. They will find support or will not find support, and then there will be a final vote. What does it mean that the new text, which emerges in the interests of comprehension, may be detrimental to comprehension? Where's that new text coming from around the corner? Is that an amendment from the Commission? In that case, there is a completely different item on the agenda which is correctly placed on the agenda. Cannot place texts alternately here. It seems to me that this is going to get us jealous rather than clear. What paragraph...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U166	Yes, Mr Reinsalu, thank you for this flash of thought. The question is that we have now voted on one amendment, one of the four in here. And they want the big hall to see that I understand that the desire of the Committee on Culture is that the large hall should see this text as it is, which we must begin to endorse immediately in the final vote. The special feature of this second reading is that we also need to endorse the draft as a final decision and that is why it is a desire to make the final text available to everyone in the Chamber. Mr. Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U167	Yes, I asked for the floor because the President of the sitting clearly stated that the Committee on Culture, which is going to decide now, would come before us with a proposal where the film campus will be the fifth. How can the President ensure that the Committee on Culture now goes and decides that it is precisely the fifth place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U168	I looked at the amendment. There was the word 'add', but of course the Committee on Culture comes before us with this text. Please, mike mister... Quiet in the hall, please! All right, Mr. Island, please! A microphone for Mr. Island, please. Respectables, please be quiet! We can't hear Mr. Saart.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U169	If the President of the sitting claims that it is clear anyway, as a result of the way in which we voted on the amendment, for which is the Committee on Culture meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U170	This is clear to the President of the sitting, but I understand that the Committee on Culture wishes to bring the [new text] to the Chamber, because we are about to take the final vote. This is the second reading of the draft decision, which means that we must also have a final vote. We have just voted through the amendments. Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. After all, we have been voting here in the Riigikogu for 30 years in various draft amendments and they will go automatically. I do not remember any precedent in which the text of this draft law would have been amended in accordance with the amendments adopted before the final vote. Maybe you're so kind and bring us up a precedent where you'd have done this before. I don't see the slightest reason for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U172	I'm sorry! These are usually amendments to draft laws. They've been voted here. And then the committees will meet during the second and third readings, and the amendments to the legislation that were approved in the Chamber will bring in nicely and to the third reading, when there is a final vote, the text that has already been corrected will reach us here. It is now a draft decision in which the large hall decided to introduce an amendment, and we still have a final vote on this draft decision. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U173	Thank you. But can you explain your interpretation? I have not been very involved in this draft, but now I have opened up the table of amendments and read from it that the content of the amendment is to add one more thing to the ranking. As a result of what philological or epistemic analysis have you come to the conclusion that the film campus should put the end of the list there precisely?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U174	Thank you. That is why the Committee on Culture wanted to bring this debate before us once more. But as far as I can tell, when a list is presented before the grand hall of the Riigikogu and the large hall of the Riigikogu decides that something needs to be added, it makes sense that the addition takes place at the end of the existing list. If the large hall all understands this in the same way, I believe that the chairman of the Committee on Culture does not have to take this break. This was proposed by the Chairman of the Committee on Culture. I haven't taken the manager's break yet. If the large hall can all understand in the same way that the word 'add' means adding the end of the queue, then we can go to the final vote on the draft decision and, according to the amendment that we all voted on together, one item will be added to the list, and this point is five. Okay. Can everybody... If everyone says they understand the same thing, and there are no more questions in the Chamber, I can put this draft decision to the final vote in a way that says five as a point. The amendment asks for this [object] to be included. Mr. Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U175	Well, I wouldn't take the poison that it was the will of the initiators. After all, the amendment has been tabled by the initiators. I would ask the initiators what their will was for this amendment, whether to necessarily add it to that end or somewhere else. It is true that another amendment was tabled, for example, to put it first. There the will of the author of the amendment was clearly expressed. This is not the case with this proposal. But I certainly cannot agree in any way in the text that it necessarily means the end of the line. This is a relatively arbitrary interpretation in my opinion. Moreover, I do not understand the role of the Committee on Culture in this. It's finally the decision of this hall. As the Committee on Culture prepared the amendments, the decision of this Chamber is where the text goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U176	In this situation... All right, Mr. Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U177	Our proposal certainly was not to add it to the fifth. If it had been our will, we would have proposed that it be added to the fifth. Our proposal was to set him aside, and the Committee on Culture would have discussed it and put him where they would reach by consensus. The Committee on Culture decided that they would not support setting up a film campus on the list, did they not? The big hall decided otherwise. So I have a suggestion: since the large hall did not support its first rank, we support its second rank.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U178	We do not have such an amendment. Given the situation, I'll take the chairman's break in 15 minutes. I ask the Committee on Culture to gather in the cafeteria room, discuss this question and come to the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U179	So, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Culture has now presented the revised text of the 387 draft decision to us. Here's some more details. The National Opera was with the big R before, and now he's with the little r, and other linguistic details have been introduced. Now we can go to the final vote. Mr. Pier!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U180	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Surely this revised and improved text is now excellent. We can all accept it happily. But I have a question like this. Maybe you can comment. I looked at ERR's home page and there's news at 5.25 p.m. Today there is 18.50, and the news is this: Riigikogu added to the list of important cultural objects in Tallinn. The news was published more than an hour ago, but we are now voting on it. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U181	Yeah, we made that decision 20 minutes ago. It's true. Mr. Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U182	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that we are currently trying to construct some sort of substitution procedure here between the second and third reading of the draft law, which will take place within the minutes read by the Commission. I have a question: on what legal basis does this current operation take place within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure Act? Indeed, it may be discussed whether it is too inflexible if [it is] the final vote on the draft decision, where substantive amendments have also been tabled. However, the question is that we have amendments. The legislator took a favourable, unfavorable position on some of the amendments. Now the final vote will be on the text that has been brought to the Chamber. Where does this new text come from, which at least hasn't reached my desk? What wording is written in it and on the basis of which provision of the Rules of Procedure Act have the texts been replaced? We have the time to bring the texts to the final vote to the Chamber. What about the time these documents are presented in the hall? On what date and by when is this second reading text in the hall presented? Please answer these questions by reference to the Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U183	Thank you. Mr Reinsalu, § 106 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states that if the amendment receives more votes in favour than against, the amendment will be introduced into the text of the draft. That is what has been done, and now we can also go to the final vote on this draft decision. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U184	Thank you. I have not so much a question as a proposal for our technical staff. These microphones, which work in the hall, are so quiet that they seem to have been blown that there's a radio playing in the next room, but the door's closed. What if it was possible to raise the volume from 7 to 9? Then maybe it'd be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U185	Let's try it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U186	The only reason you're talking is because you can see how your mouth moves. I've been seeing a doctor relatively recently, my ears are pretty much fine. Raise some of this volume, it'll be easier to track. I mean, there's a lot of lines that's really nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U187	I will speak a little louder myself, and all members of the Riigikogu will get it too. And, of course, it will help if we're all quieter in this hall. In fact, it would be better if there were no talk in the big hall when the issues were important. But, of course, it would be good to hear what both the manager and the waitress and everyone else say. Mr. Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U188	In fact, no one seems to be protesting that this amendment will be included in the text. But now this text has been supplemented, or legally placed in order number 5. This is, in fact, a very changing decision, which the hall has not voted in this form. That's what protest is about. I will give an example that if the Riigikogu decides to reduce income tax to 15%, but the Commission gathers and says that, yes, right, we have decided that we will introduce it, but we will implement it in 2300. It's comparable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U189	No, it's not comparable. This was not a very successful comparison in the sense that the great hall made its decision to add [this object]. We also reviewed the language tray, according to the language advice "to add" means "to put in."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U190	The initiators' proposal was to add a Tallinn film town to the ranking of building and renovating important national cultural buildings. Raimond Kaljulaid suggested putting it first, we didn't have it. We had a proposal for the Commission to discuss this. The Commission discussed this and concluded that they did not support it. Now, the great hall supported it. In my opinion, without having been negotiated with the initiators, this text could only be before us in such a way that we have four objects lined up, as is the case here, and then this proposal, which was supported by the great hall, has been described. This is the only way we can handle it. The large hall has not decided that it is the fifth, as the Commission has now decided that it will be set at 3 to 8 in the fifth ranking. And that is why it is certainly not the intention of the initiators' proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U191	After all, the Commission gathered in the meantime. And once again, as I said, we also have the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu. Your amendment, which you have made to add, means to add. And to add it means it's going to last. Will you then withdraw this amendment, which... [[There's something going on in the hall.]] The large hall with zero votes against, I recall, with zero votes against, supported this proposal. However, ladies and gentlemen, my proposal is to go to the final vote on this draft decision. Mr. Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U192	It is very interesting who is drawing up these interpretations here and what logic we are dealing with here. There is a very clear, non-quantitative amendment made by the originator. It is the will of the initiator to bring this amendment to the text of the decision in this form and, in fact, the large hall has supported the text of the decision in this form. Here's the call from the Reform Party to take out the movie campus. I don't support it. I think that the film campus is reasonable and must go into that decision, but it should not go in on the basis of such a numeration, because this numeration was not really in the House's statement of intent in my opinion. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U193	Mr. Reinsalu! Please do not interpret the President's question to your groupmate that you would then like to withdraw it, so that is the wish of the Reform Party. That's one. Secondly, once again: if we come to your amendment, the big hall supported this amendment. According to the amendment, your proposal was to add [one point]. The Committee on Culture met in the meantime, the Committee on Culture found that the word "add" means putting this point in the fifth rank. It has been incorporated into this text and we can now vote on it. Mr. Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U194	Well, indeed, there is no answer to the question of what the procedure is carried out by the Committee on Culture in this situation. I am still based on the same fact that one question is the will of the initiators, the other, as you indicated, that the great hall was supported. I understand there was an agreement in the coalition to actually place it in fifth place. I read about it in the paper last week that they want to add it to the last place. But where do you take the conviction that the willingness of the members of the Riigikogu to support this amendment was indeed to support it in the interpretation you mentioned, putting [new object] in fifth place? After all, this philological analysis, which you have now offered us as the chair of the sitting, you did not introduce us before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U195	The amendments tabled to us were put to the vote. And before we go to the final vote on the draft text, the text of the draft text must be available to the members of the Riigikogu. This was done by the Committee on Culture, which has now made it available to members of the Riigikogu. No further questions. Mr. Onions! We've got the other finger, but, well, we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U196	Okay, yeah. But I have a question as to which point of the Home and Working Procedures Act the Committee on Culture has now gathered and amended the draft decision before us. The draft did not go to the vote as it was in this large Chamber, that there were four points in order and then an amendment voted on, which did not have a numbering proposal. What kind of paragraph?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U197	Thank you. As I did at the beginning or not at the beginning, but a little while ago, I replied: § 106 is the one that says that the amendments will be introduced, and § 110 says that it is the commission that prepares the draft for the third reading and then the final vote. It's § 110. Mr. Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Would it be possible to interpret it as a compromise, as the Riigikogu decided literally today that this is the four-digit list of 1, 2, 3, 4 as we voted on, and, in addition, without the number, this film campus will be added?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U199	The Committee on Culture has sent the members of the Riigikogu a revised text. Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We have a specific proposal from Raimond Kaljulai. Perhaps we will come to this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U201	Unfortunately, this was not supported. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will put to the vote before you the draft decision of the Riigikogu 387: the decision of the Riigikogu on "The confirmation of the ranking of the construction and renovation of state-of-the-art cultural buildings." Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U202	79 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal; no one opposed it, with one abstention. Nationally important cultural objects have been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U203	We are going to the fifth item on today's agenda: 'Educational Development Plan 2021 to 2035'. Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science, is welcome to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! The government has submitted a draft development plan for education to the Riigikogu for discussion, where we will set targets for the next 15 years. The process of drawing up sectoral development plans of the Ministry of Education and Research started already in 2018 with the creation of a vision. From spring 2019 to summer 2020, a large number of meetings and discussions took place in which researchers, representatives of different disciplines, employers, school leaders, teachers, parents, learners, support specialists were able to participate. This list could be continued. Today, as Minister for Education and Research, I can present to you the goals that have been drawn up together with many good partners, which we could move towards for the next 15 years. The development plan came into being at an extremely difficult and unusual time. The COVID crisis hit the world, affecting and still affecting the whole educational landscape. The crisis has shown that we need to pay even more attention to the mental health of both teachers and learners. It became clear that the digital capacity of our schools needed to be developed. At the same time, we know from the first distance studies that the crisis has brought new quality to both teachers and home-school cooperation. However, learners have developed important general skills, such as time planning and self-management, in a new way during distance learning. Thus, the COVID-19 crisis already pushed some of the activities planned for the coming years to a faster pace than originally planned. The crisis has also highlighted the bottlenecks in our education, which need to be tackled as a matter of priority in the implementation of the development plan. However, there are no major fundamental changes in the development plan due to the crisis. This shows that we have been on the right track with our development plan. Now more specifically about the challenges ahead and the planned actions. Teachers are the cornerstone of the Estonian education system, but our permanent concern is the secondary growth and pay of teachers. The wage growth of Estonian teachers has been one of the fastest in the OECD countries. Between 2012 and 2020 the average gross monthly wage of teachers in general education schools doubled. In 2020, the average salary of the school teacher was 112% of the Estonian average. Teachers' pay has been rising rapidly, but the average wage of the country is moving well ahead, and in this comparison, teachers' pay is clearly declining. In the spring state budget strategy process, the Government of the Republic approved a 3% increase in teachers' labour costs from next year. A total of EUR 12 million was planned for this purpose. This was to ensure that the share of teachers' pay in the average wage does not decrease compared to 2021. We must admit that the rise in the average wage of the country and the autumn economic forecast show that the funds allocated are clearly not sufficient. In order for teachers' pay to be equal to the national average, it is necessary to raise teachers' salaries by a total of 7.2%, i.e. an additional 4.2%, and this will require an additional EUR 17 million. A total of EUR 295 million would be needed to reach 120% of the average wage, for example, by 2025 for teachers. That's where we have to go. Alongside wage growth, it is, of course, a major challenge to ensure a stable and professional faculty throughout the country. The total number of teachers has increased slightly over the last five years, but a large number of teachers do not work full-time, and often not because they want to work part-time, but because of the small size of the school, they simply do not have enough full-time work. For example, with fewer than 30 pupils in primary school, the average burden on teachers last year was 0.54 posts, 0.64 posts in primary school with 30 to 60 and 0.81 posts in primary school with more than 60 pupils. Looking to the future, the shortage of teachers is expected to worsen. Almost half of Estonian teachers are at least 50 years old. The number of teachers aged 30 and younger is less than 11% in general education schools. There is a particular shortage of science teachers. TALIS 2018 survey shows that the perceived appreciation of the teaching profession among teachers has increased compared to 2013. In 2013, this figure was 14%, i.e. 14% of teachers valued their profession. By 2018, it rose to 26%. Only 26%! Teachers under the age of 35 are more highly aware of the importance of teaching. The figure for 2018 is the same as the OECD average, but compared to Finland, for example, where the figure is 58%, we still have a very long way to go. What are we planning to do to ensure that teachers and heads of educational institutions grow up? Firstly, the content of the teaching profession needs to be reviewed. The burden on teachers is high and even greater due to the pandemic last year. We need to strengthen cooperation between teachers and support specialists, and that is what we will do together with the Ministry of Social Affairs. Secondly, flexible opportunities must be created for entering the teaching profession. More and more every year we see that entering the teaching profession is no longer linear. More and more people who already have work experience in another profession wish to contribute to Estonian education. They must have the opportunity to enter the teaching profession and also to obtain the necessary qualifications. Thirdly, the career models of teachers need to be developed, enabling both vertical and horizontal mobility. Fourthly, conditions and opportunities need to be created for senior management to be competent. It is the school leaders who must be the leaders of educational innovations and who, together with teachers, can create a supportive and secure school environment. The quality of education. Although we can be proud that we are among the best in the world in terms of the quality of education, we also have enough challenges here. The results of the PISA test show that 15-year-olds in Estonia are ranked first in reading, mathematics and science. At the same time, we must not only look on the bright side. We must admit that there are also concerns. For example, the results of the PISA test show differences in skills between Estonian and Russian-speaking learners. Our serious challenge is to ensure that students with a language different from the Estonian language have the opportunity to acquire a very good level of proficiency in the Estonian language. It is the lack of knowledge of the Estonian language and the poorer knowledge and skills at the end of the comprehensive school that influence the course of study and future career choices. Gender gaps in education are also a cause for concern. Among boys who have graduated from comprehensive school, there is much more low educational success compared to girls. The lower performance of boys in primary school does not result from different abilities compared to girls, but from attitudes towards learning and, for example, from perception of their abilities differently. Similarly, existing support systems are not effective enough to implement inclusive education and to ensure access to education. The latest satisfaction studies by VET institutions and alumni at higher education institutions confirm that the completed studies are very satisfied. In both cases, about 90% of respondents were satisfied with both the choice of the educational institution and the choice of specialty. At the same time, in higher education, the assessment of apprenticeships during studies was modest and only 55% were satisfied. However, in vocational education the corresponding figure was 81%. The place of concern in higher education is a high dropout rate, especially in doctoral studies. This is where the post-growth of our academic staff in Estonian must come from. A high dropout rate is also a problem in vocational education. Unfortunately, vocational education for young people is often not the first choice, but the popularity of vocational education for adults is growing year by year. The participation rate in lifelong learning is constantly increasing. In 2019, 20.1% of the population aged 25 to 64 participated in lifelong learning. With this, Estonia is the fourth largest country in the European Union after the Nordic countries. At the same time, we must recognise that while adult participation in lifelong learning has increased significantly over the last ten years, not all target groups are sufficiently prepared to improve their skills. For example, men, people with different native languages and people with lower levels of education are less involved in the study. These are the ones we need to get into adult education. What are we planning to do to ensure even better quality education, reduce drop-out rates and support learners more? In order to ensure flexible learning opportunities and supported learning, we must first develop a common secondary education standard to integrate general and secondary vocational education. Every student should have more contact with the world of work during his/her studies, whether he/she walks into an internship or a job shadow, or when he/she solves with entrepreneurs the real problems of life itself. Secondly, a comprehensive solution needs to be created so that informal and non-formal learning is taken more into account as part of formal training. What does that mean? After all, we all study every day, we have our own interests-hobbies, we go to training sessions where we get new knowledge and skills. All of this should be used, where possible, as part of formal training without compromising quality. Thus, smaller study programmes, modules and micro-degrees become an important part of the education system. Thirdly, a comprehensive approach should be developed to support learners with special needs, including to support talented students in different areas. We must develop the abilities of each learner according to his or her abilities and also provide him or her with support if necessary. This means a greater need for support specialists. The state supported universities 2019/2020. increased school year reception for both logo beets and special needs teachers. The amendment to the Act, which entered into force in 2018, provides additional funding to the schoolteachers each year to cover the labour costs of support specialists. The possibility of applying for starting support for support specialists was also extended from 2018 as was the case with teachers. As a result, the number of support specialists working at school has increased by more than 500 in three years, but they are still missing. In order to have a common cultural and value area and an education in Estonian, it is necessary to ensure, first of all, that students with other home languages have a good Estonian language skills, because, as already stated above, it is the lack of Estonian language skills and the poorer knowledge and skills at the end of the basic school that influence their learning paths and subsequent career choices. Secondly, the learning process must support the development of a common cultural and value area in order to increase the cohesion of society. Cooperation and schools also play an important role here. Thirdly, the development of the Estonian language as a higher education and scientific language should be supported. Although science and education are international, it is important to maintain higher education and scientific language in Estonian. In order for us to have a modern approach to learning at all levels and types of education, it is important that each teacher understands how to give feedback to the learner so that it supports his or her development, and how the institution can create an environment that supports learning, where the school church does not have a place and everyone can feel safe. Attention must be paid to general and future competences, self-governing learner and citizen development. This means reviewing the content of the curriculum as well as developing the content of initial and continuing training for teachers. We need to create opportunities to personalise learning and support learning with digital solutions that allow teachers to differentiate learning in class and to get an overview of the progress of learners. At the same time, it also gives appropriate feedback to the learner himself and very quickly. But we are still facing challenges, and so we cannot overlook demographic change. Due to the trends in birth and migration, the number of students in general education schools in Estonia has decreased significantly in recent decades. The network of general education schools is largely built in years when we were born about 25,000 children a year, today some 15,000 or 14,000 are born. One eloquent fact: 2019/2020. At the beginning of the academic year, there were 111 primary schools in Estonia where fewer than 30 students studied at the third stage of the comprehensive school. It's about a third of our third grade schools. It is becoming increasingly difficult for such schools to find teachers and to provide them with a sufficient workload or a good salary, which may ultimately lead to us not being able to provide quality and choice-rich education everywhere. But I would like to stress here: the comprehensive school education network must be the decision of the community, these choices and these decisions must remain the responsibility of the community. What are we planning to do on our part to ensure a sustainable network of educational institutions and infrastructure? Firstly, it is necessary to clarify the division of responsibilities at secondary level and to give more responsibility to the state. This does not mean the loss of different forms of ownership, but different forms of cooperation where appropriate. This is not just an infrastructure issue. The division of responsibilities also involves more meaningful cooperation in supporting the learner, because we need to ensure that more people complete secondary education. Secondly, we are developing the concept of regional education centres to create new forms of learning and opportunities for connecting general, vocational and higher education and non-formal learning and facilitating transitions. When planning infrastructure, we must certainly take into account accessibility, environmental friendliness, sustainability and efficiency. Linking education and the world of work is certainly important, so we must continue to implement the OSA system. It is important that in future the need for skills, not for agencies, can be predicted, in particular, so that the results can be used more widely. The professional system must be reformed, including the transition from professional standards to skills profiles. We need to be able to respond more quickly to the needs of the labour market. We need to offer more vocational and higher education training and further and retraining opportunities in areas of smart specialisation growth. The digital skills of all age groups must certainly be developed. This was also demonstrated by the COVID crisis that digital skills are extremely important. We will expand forms of workplace-based learning to increase cooperation between education and the world of work. I see that my time is running out, so I'm trying to sum up [theme]. I hope that by 2035 there will be an open space for individualised learning; we will have learning based on learners' needs and abilities, which will support each learner's self-realization, coping with different roles, becoming a responsible and initiativeful member of a democratic society. It is clear that changes in society, the labour market and education are diversifying expectations of the teaching profession. In the future, the teacher will be more and more a supporter and mentor of the learner, as well as a value teacher, who will shape the student's attitudes and support the development of a self-leading learner. I thank all the people who believed in education who contributed to the creation of an education development plan. This is clearly a common creation. I hope that the Riigikogu will also support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U205	Thank you very much to the Minister. Before we started processing the item, the President's change left the procedure unnegotiated. I would remind all Members of the Riigikogu that the Minister's presentation is first, 20 minutes, then the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, as well as 20 minutes. Then each member of the Riigikogu can ask each of the two rapporteurs an oral question, followed by a round of negotiations, where all members of the Riigikogu, representatives of political groups and committees can speak. But let's get to the questions. First Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U206	Dear Minister, It is no secret that the main concern in the field of education is the question of teacher follow-up. That's what you've been talking about today. We know that teachers' secondary growth is so acute that it can be called a deep crisis. The Committee on Culture has worked hard and prepared its proposals for the government. You responded to the proposals in writing. I still want to be more specific in this hall. Could you please present what the government has chosen from the proposals of the Committee on Culture as a response to the teacher follow-up crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U207	Thank you. I am not exactly in the way of these proposals. Yes, the Committee on Culture made a consensual decision that the average salary of teachers must be 1.4 national average wage. We're going to start by reaching 120% of the average. Among your proposals was that teachers' workload should be reviewed. It's definitely in there, we need to look at the teachers' workload. We replied that 120 million additional funding would be needed in order to reach 15 to 16 contact hours and that 4800 new teachers would be needed in advance of the class. We don't have one right now. But we could start with starting teachers. We know that fewer than half of the starting teachers will continue to be in front of the class after five years. Why are they leaving? They're pointing out that they're burning out, they're too heavy. We could start with starting teachers to reduce the hours. We have also drawn up a wage guide for teachers in cooperation with the Cities and Municipalities Association. This was actually a very big job and is currently being implemented by eight local authorities. In fact, taking into account teachers' salaries, contact hours are not required. There is no such demand anymore, but it is still being done. So teachers' hours, teachers' workload at all, are certainly the subject we are trying to address.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U208	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Well, don't take it personally, but I'm very sorry about the education faith of the people who contributed to this process with vision, papers and everything. What came out of it was to say honestly, I find it difficult to see and find out what this development plan will bring about in our educational life. In fact, it seems to me that the parties to this process were actually trying to visualize and anticipate certain fundamental, important changes in higher education, education or somewhere else, but the result was that we were still developing, improving, problems are many, they have to be solved, they are, of course, complex and long-term, all the beautiful words that we read in these documents. But in real life, they don't really matter or mean much. I ask you this: if this paper were not accepted, what systemic and strategically important things would be left unresolved or would move much worse without the support of this large and powerful paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U210	Thank you. First of all, I certainly will not take it personally, because this development plan was put together before I arrived at the Ministry of Education and Research. At the same time, I know that there are really many very respectable people, such as Marju Lauristin, who have contributed very much to this development plan. But here's what I'm gonna say. Even if there was no development plan, where could we go in the field of education, and what are the important things that we could still do? I think it is very important that we also have a proper legal basis in the third grade and upper secondary school for using the so-called VTA system, so that non-formal education is an equal part of formal education. First, it would reduce the burden on students. For example, if a child attends a music school, he or she should not attend a music class at the school because he or she gets a much deeper education at the music school and that could be taken into account by the school. It is now done in this way and in that way, internships are very different. In order for it to have a legal basis, that's what we could do. I think the common secondary education model could go on. We can see on the labour market that there are people with low secondary education who do not have any skills. Secondary education could develop so that those who have the strength and will can develop their skills alongside secondary education, so that they are still competitive on the labour market when they graduate. My favorite subject is personalized learning. This is a very complex and long-term issue. In fact, this is already being really dealt with. We've got 2,500 digitalized skills to start one day running into one place. Then it would be as if in e-health, that one day everyone will have an e-education view, we know what training we have completed and what skills we have according to the education we have. If we really had this kind of electronic view at one point, it would be very powerful. That's where we're headed. I'm sure I'd like to do these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U211	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U212	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is very symbolic that the first questions to be asked for the future of Estonian education are Ladynskaya, Ossinovski and Odines. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But seriously, it seems to me that quite a number of topics can be completely solved separately, but in some areas of Estonia they go into bundles and knots, a whole lot of them are together and it is very difficult to solve something. I mean Ida-Virumaa, for example, where I come from. Teachers' follow-up, teachers' salaries and the lack of Estonian-language teachers in schools are even willing, but there are no people who would teach in Estonian in Russian-language primary schools. There's a whole knot of these things, right, and it's kind of complicated to unravel. What message would you give to the education system in Ida-Virumaa in the light of this development plan, when, how and where can we reach?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U213	Thank you. This is certainly a very important issue. I would like to say that we certainly support the teaching of the Estonian language of educators and, above all, of Ida-Virumaa educators with very large amounts of money. I very much hope that, in cooperation with universities, we will still receive proper teaching materials for teaching subjects in order to teach children in other languages in Estonian. For example, we have already done in Narva that teachers receive 30% higher salaries. I think that it should probably be expanded in the region of Ida-Virumaa in order to have teachers in Estonian there. Why not, you could also consider taking over some basic school countries in Kohtla-Järvel and Sillamäe, for example, so that you can develop education in Estonian more systematically in the region.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U214	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U215	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. The development plan has been delayed, and maybe I don't remember everything exactly. We're talking about teachers' salaries, the number of teachers, the competence of managers. This is all very right, but every development plan must also evaluate activities. As I recall, there were no indicators for nine purposes, although it was noted that they were either being clarified or developed. I don't know if they've been developed. That's a pretty big number, almost 40%. My question is: is this development plan really ready to be adopted under such conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U216	Thank you. I think those meters that are missing come to the 'implementation and action plans'. For example, it has been questioned that the Estonian language development plan has objectives concerning the development plan in the field of education. These metrics are not listed here; these metrics are set out in the Estonian language development plan. For example, for this reason they may not be included in the education development plan. But surely there should be, yes, metrics. It's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U217	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U218	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! While teaching is not the only one, a very important motivator is a decent salary. You like to talk about the teachers' average salary, which is higher, but for teachers, the minimum wage is actually more important, i.e. this salary number, how much a teacher has to get when working full time. We have had the objective that the minimum wage for teachers must be equal to the national average. We were pretty good at this in recent years. Now that teachers' salaries are frozen, this ratio is 85% to the detriment of teachers' minimum wage. Unfortunately, this gap is now increasing at an ever faster pace. You've been a minister for quite a while and a new financial year is approaching. How high will the minimum wage of teachers in the new academic year and in the new year be compared to the national average? So when do we get to this goal so that these two numbers are equal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U219	Thank you. In fact, it is precisely in society that we have agreed that 120% of the national average would be the teacher's average salary, not the teacher's minimum wage. We know that 17.1% more will be added to the teacher's minimum wage from the differentiation fund, and there they have been calculated to get that average. If you look at the ratio of the teacher's minimum wage to the average wage, for example, in 2012 it was 73% and in 2020 it was already 91%. I can't tell you what result we're going to get for New Year's, I can't tell you right now. We will be sitting together in the government tomorrow, and all ministers will be able to present their additional requests to colleagues. I'm sure I'll ask the teachers for more pay. You know we agreed in the RES at 3%. In order to reach 100% of the average wage, an additional 4.2 million is needed. In that case, the teacher's average salary would be EUR 1412, i.e. EUR 97.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U220	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U221	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will continue with the question of my good colleague Merry Aart. Indeed, if we want something, we have to measure it. The strategic objectives are set out in 20 and 10 of them are measured. When we dropped this development plan three months ago, I was really hoping that I was ready to discuss it, too, that the Ministry would still add something in that three months. For example, the third strategy block has four metrics, one of which is mentioned. Why do we really need a document that we cannot measure? We can't measure half the gauges.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U222	Thank you for your question. I think I answered wrong earlier. 1412 euros is the minimum wage, right, not the average. Thought I might have said something wrong. I admit, I'm in trouble here. I will send you the answer in writing why it has gone so far that so many indicators have not been added.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U223	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U224	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! You've been working as a minister for a while. What do you think is the most important problem in the field of education at the moment, and what solution does this development plan provide?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U225	Thank you. I think that if we look at the education sector in general education, rather than with higher education, then in general education, it is certainly the secondary growth of teachers. We still have a very difficult situation with real and natural science teachers and this is difficult not only in rural areas but also in Tallinn. In cooperation with the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn, we are planning a teacher's academy with a particular focus on training teachers in real and natural sciences in order to get them to learn more and then to graduate and go to schools. Just as the IT Academy was in its time, which actually worked very well, more IT specialists came in. With the help of the euro, we are also trying to create such a system of teachers' academy. Yeah, I think it's a big problem. Another concern, which may not be so much about this development plan now, but it is nevertheless a major concern: the learning gaps after the COVID crisis and how to deal with them. They must be dealt with systematically. I've already heard some schools say that we don't have children with learning gaps. I daresay, though. It's like bullying school: some schools say they don't have bullying, but they do most of the time. It just needs to be dealt with. I am trying to find solutions, especially money, because schools have skills, but they need money to provide additional training.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U226	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U227	President-in-Office of the Council. Very honourable Minister! Teachers' pay and follow-up are understandablely crucial and very important; certainly, the good results and indicators of our students in international tables are not less important. But I'm still asking you about the subject that still comes up over the years. This applies primarily to children, their mental health, and the teaching, or study, that is, teaching that is supposed to begin relatively early. Did this issue come on the agenda as part of the development plan? Is it appropriate, or should something be changed, for a study arrangement such as the one we have used to start at 8 or 8.15 or the one that has been assigned to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U228	Thank you. This is one of my favorite topics, I have written several articles on this subject. Doctors tell us not to start teaching, at least active teaching at 8 o'clock, in order to be effective, it should start at 9 o'clock at the earliest. But the beginning of the school day is governed by the regulation of the Minister of Health. While Riina Sikkut was Minister of Health, a working group was working with people in the field of education, and the minister was suggested that school days should start later. But there was an exchange, and now it's stopped. We have discussed with the Ministry of Social Affairs that, in fact, this regulation and these decisions could be administered by the Ministry of Education. Yeah, well, I don't have a good solution right now, but I agree and understand that actually, school day could start at 8:30 or 9:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U229	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I have a specific question, but before I formulate it, I would like to remind you that you are in a hall where you are able, as happened before your remote control, to discuss for an hour and a half what the Estonian word "add" means in Estonian. Because it would make sense to someone like me, wouldn't you please explain? In the old days, a shoemaker or a welder was taught as a shoemaker or a welder, and he was invited. Now, in your report, you said that this invitation must replace the skills profiles. What is it, a skill profile when a person is a shoemaker? You were talking about vocational training.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U231	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U232	I understand someone prepared this report, but he put those words in it. What is the skill profile for the future shoemaker or welder? But specifically, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U233	Thank you. We have a very changing work environment and employers are looking for people with different skills. There are fewer and fewer qualifications that require only those skills that we can say that he now has, for example, a shoemaker's qualification. The shoemaker's skills must also change in time. You, too, have certainly noticed that shoes are very different, that they have changed in time and that different skills are needed to improve them, such as using technology. So it would be more compact, the employer knows what skills a person has, whether these skills are needed at a given workplace, or whether there is a need for further skills development. As we know, skills are all developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U234	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I happened to hear your interview today, I thought it was on Rainbow Radio, where you spoke about the state of the school's disease. You indicated that some classes had already had to go to home school. I was particularly concerned when you said that you were using rapid tests to detect infection, which you're checking with a PCR test. But it was completely phenomenal and insane for me when you said that it was not possible to identify an infectious agent identified by a rapid test with a PCR test, which is both sensitive and evidence-based. In essence, you said that in the future you will refrain from using the PCR test and will only stick to this, let's say, standard fast test. Maybe you want to create a social setting now that children are infected, but you don't. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Perhaps the police are beginning to identify the drunk not by blowing an alcometer, but by blowing it in the face. Why are you giving up evidence-based...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U236	Time! Time, Kalle!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U237	Yeah, I'm asking you, why are you giving up the evidence-based PCR test and going over to the high speed test of EUR 2, 3 and 6?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U238	Thank you. We have agreed that there are simplified quarantine measures in general education and vocational training. This means that if a child or young person is in close contact with the school, he or she will be tested again instead of automatically sent for self-insulation, as was the case before. According to the agreement, the first test to be carried out is a rapid test and, after 72 hours, a PCR test is carried out under the responsibility of the Health Board for these young people. I didn't say we were gonna replace it. In an interview there, I said that according to the Health Board's assessment, the experience so far says that close contacts in the school environment also have a very rare positive effect on PCR testing and that the Health Board may have to propose replacing PCR tests with another rapid test when testing close contacts in the school environment. That was my point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U239	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I have a question. First of all, I am very pleased that you have already said in advance that you do not take the criticism of the document very seriously, because you have perhaps not been involved from the outset. Therefore, criticism is not difficult for you. I also agree with the questioners, of course, I agree with Ossinovski, and I also believe that this is a rather empty document, a very, very federal and pointless document. In fact, one sentence on page 7 would have sufficed: "In 2035 there would have been enough competent and motivated teachers in Estonia... " Well, that sentence and action would go well enough and that plan would have been perfectly normal. But now it's a question. Do you have it specifically searched for so that there must be 130 pages of meaningless text? Was that just some kind of purpose, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U241	Firstly, I certainly do not think that this is an empty document or a meaningless text. Very many highly educated and well-oriented people have invested their time there. In my opinion, this document gives us a good direction to move towards education in the next 15 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U242	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In the development plan, there is an expression like "self-leading learner." Why don't you explain a little bit about what that means? Now, the second, most important question. You spoke of the teacher's offspring as the greatest concern. You know, this doesn't seem believable to you because, in connection with this nasty vaccination, a lot of schools have been threatened with firing teachers who have not been vaccinated. So how does that fit in with the big problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U244	Thank you. A self-directing student is a student who is able to plan his or her time and study, set goals and plan steps to achieve these goals. This was needed during the COVID crisis during distance training. We also saw that in the order of magnitude, one third of the students showed themselves as very good self-directing students who did very well during distance training. They themselves appreciated that they were able to do even better during distance training than they had been able to do during contact training. Our education system should certainly not forget this experience and these children. There should be sufficient flexibility so that children who were fit to learn more independently can continue to do so. As far as teacher vaccination is concerned, teachers in general education schools have set a major example of vaccination for society as a whole. We have more than 80% of teachers in general education schools vaccinated, and that is very good, because it makes us less prone to fire in schools. During the second wave we saw that most of the virus was brought to school by an adult person. At the time, vaccination was not possible. Teachers themselves have worked very actively to ensure that they have the right to receive a preferential vaccination. At the moment, it is about revaccination of teachers so they can receive a third dose. They were mostly vaccinated with AstraZeneca and the effects of AstraZeneca begin to decrease. It's been six months since they were vaccinated. So the teachers have been a great example. I do not know of any conflict situation where a teacher would have refused all other preventive measures and should therefore be released from school. If the teacher does not wish or cannot be vaccinated, he/she can protect himself/herself and using other measures. I believe that teachers are all responsible people and do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U245	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U246	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I was most surprised in this introductory speech by this very clear plan to close down secondary school levels with fewer than 30 pupils, of course, in cooperation with communities. It's just that there's a lot of schools, there's over 100. It is understandable, of course, that it is difficult to find a full-time teacher in certain subjects, but this cannot be a criterion for a decision to close. We know that small schools were better able to cope with distance training under corona conditions. We are talking about an individual approach to students and that much more could be used to make virtual learning, for example, accessible by the best teachers in Estonia across Estonia, in small islands or somewhere else. Now, if a municipality or community is planning to make such a decision, what are the criteria they could take into account? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What should they be guided by? It's not just about efficiency.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U247	Time, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U248	There is much student-centredness and diversity that must be preserved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U249	Thank you for your question. Sweet Riina! I really haven't said half a word that we're somehow pressured to close down the third grade of middle school. On the contrary, I pointed out that this would always be the decision of the community, and I said what were the danger points. If we see that we have a lot of real and natural science teachers missing across the country, and we see that teachers in small schools work part-time, that is, they also get a very small salary, then this is the community's decision-making place. The regions are certainly very different. There are sparsely populated areas where this third degree of "elementary school" can be very far away. There's no sense in pulling this third degree together or concentrating it in the center. But maybe there are places where it is reasonable to do so and where this will enable students to get a better quality education. I am absolutely convinced that this is not a question of efficiency, it is a question of quality. It is not a question of the efficiency of the educational network; it is a question of quality so that we can provide children with the highest possible quality education in every corner of Estonia. We have schools where, from eighth grade, chemistry science begins, but where there really isn't a chemistry teacher. According to the curriculum, you have to give chemistry, but you don't have a chemistry teacher. Do we want our children to study in schools like this? Or do we find some sort of solution to this situation? We could try.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U250	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U251	Thank you. Minister, thank you for your presentation. I'm pushing your report, too. Riina asked so nicely for an introduction to the same subject already, but I'll go on from here. I'm asking about the third degree of the same basic school, where there are less than 30 children. There's a lot of pressure on funding anyway, and the community has to contribute more than other schools. Do you see that any changes in this funding should be made in the near future and, if so, which ones? On the other hand, you were just talking about quality. Do you see that somehow you should continue to work on this quality? Is there any need for an additional verification mechanism to make it clear what the quality offered on the spot is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U252	Thank you. We see from statistics that the fewer students, the lower the pay of teachers. It really runs right through the statistics that the fewer students, the lower the teachers' salary. I certainly do not think that such things should be done somehow by coercion. I prefer this option, as we have done in the case of administrative reform, that we would rather motivate the school network to clean up, for example, with some support. When the school network is organized and there is some kind of efficiency, there is a bonus, just as there was in the case of administrative reform. When the municipalities and cities joined, it was rewarded and the community got something for it. In the case of the school network, I think it might be more like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U253	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! What are your or the country's specific plans for adult upper secondary schools? As we know, there have also been many success stories in the media lately, and across Estonia these schools have achieved very good results. It has also been described in media stories, even Tanel Padar and other young idols, who have gone and, for whatever reason, never completed their education. They set an example for others. Can these schools continue to operate firmly in the future, or are they facing closure? Can they act on their own? What are the most important aspects that you could highlight?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U255	This is a very important subject and it is also such a subject where my views and the behaviour of the ministry in recent years are not very similar. The Ministry has favoured the integration of upper secondary schools for adults into vocational schools, and this has also been done in some areas. In some regions, this has been better done, in others not so well. I consider an upper secondary school for adults to be very important as a separate form of study. Why is that? We know that we have a size of 90000 adult people without secondary education, and mostly these people have some serious traumas that have been made on the way to education. They are not the kind of people who enthusiastically walk through the door of the school and start studying immediately. These people need to be dealt with with very carefully and in a staffed manner. This is excellent in upper secondary schools for adults. For example, Kuressaare Upper Secondary School for Adults, a wonderful example, where people are actually helped with their lives, and from there they reach the next levels of education, both vocational schools and higher education. That's the point of this education. So I definitely keep adult education and adult upper secondary schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U256	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U257	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You replied to Mr Stalnukhin that, in the meantime, there has actually been a development in the footwear industry, that there are now also shoemakers. My question is that now there are no more cobblers in vocational schools, but in fact skills that are perhaps competent. Although a lot of work still needs to be done in advance, let's say, a beautician must have a medical education before he can do anything to a person there. But now we're talking about skills because all young people actually know how to paint each other's nails and put cream on their face. Aren't we going in the wrong direction that we're going to teach skills in high school if we can still focus on the invitation at vocational school? Can you tell me the difference between skill and invitation? After we explain to our voters that we no longer want an invitation, we want to have skills. Does this fit into the upper secondary school curriculum?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U258	Thank you. That's what the study plans are supposed to be, so it can fit in. That is why we talked about the VTA system, for example, so that both the third grade of primary school and upper secondary school could make more use of what a child or young person has acquired in an education of interest or in another school. Now to their skills and qualifications. Qualifications consist of different skills. We are simply trying to make this system more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U259	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U260	Thank you. Madam Minister! I'm going on the subject of vocational education. It's a long problem that's always been a problem. I think even during the Soviet Union, it was a problem. I have completed vocational education in the Soviet Union. Bringing together vocational education and the economy just how to understand these needs, how to make vocational education as effective as possible into the economy? A few years ago, a large network of competence centres was made in Estonia, calculated to bring together vocational education and real economic needs. There's a lot of money down there. What is this face and this practice in this case? How have these competence centres justified themselves, and how have the quality of vocational education increased from these centres of competence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U261	Thank you. I guess that's what these centres of competence really do, really work with employers. For example, Võrus TSENTER has been very active in working with employers and has provided this added value. The Vocational Education Centre of Võru has certainly won this. So that our vocational schools teach those specialties that are necessary and expected on the labour market, they have tried to build on the OSKA reports.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U262	Dear Imre Sooäär! As I explained at the outset, there is one question that can be asked to both rapporteurs on this item, so there is no more. After that, you can either present Aadu to Black or give a speech. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U263	Good manager! Good waitress! I've read it again and I've been browsing. I was looking forward to it in the spring. Well, there are so many cabbages like this. Everything is beautiful and colored, but the problems are extremely serious. I will now ask a specific question. Each year, 60 mathematics teachers [in place of those who retire, and another 60 biology, geography, chemistry, physics, etc., are required, but 15 or so will be replaced. How has such an idiotic or absurd situation ever come to pass? I don't think you, as minister, are a part of it. How has this been achieved, and how do you try to improve this situation so that it is not that 60 disappears and 15 come in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U264	Thank you. First of all, those 60 don't go away, those 60 go on teaching. We know that one in four physics teachers are 60+ and one in five biology, geography and mathematics teachers are 60+. That's why we can give real and natural science subjects that they're still in the teaching profession. But sooner or later, they're really leaving. It's an acute problem. When we saw in general this year that the number of candidates for teacher education increased significantly, really neither the University of Tartu nor the University of Tallinn had seen such numbers for a long time, which was seen this time, then, for example, the physics teacher was still very few, not enough. They're not all gonna stop. That's a problem. When answering previous questions, I pointed out that in cooperation with the University of Tallinn and the University of Tartu, we are trying to create a teacher's academy that focuses specifically on training teachers of real and natural sciences to address them more specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U265	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U266	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I came down just to thank you for allowing me to keep an eye on adult education. I can continue with the question of a good colleague, Imre Sooääre, to say that there is indeed a great example of success in Viljandi, with over 300 young people studying at the upper secondary school for adults. Such a tendency should certainly continue to exist as an independent form of existence. But I have a concern about what other colleagues here have been asking about. This is because locals have the opportunity and right to decide in which schools [the school grades] to reduce or which schools to close or how to behave and that those who do so will receive a bonus. You've given an example that there is no chemistry teacher, and we don't want our kids to get that kind of education. Of course we don't, we want to be a chemistry teacher. But I don't think this area wants a nine-grade school to suddenly become a six-grade school or disappear at all. What about children with special educational needs, where there are fewer children, these plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U267	Thank you. It's the same as adult high school. In my opinion, as long as we have not been able to fully implement inclusive education, and we can see that we are not yet able to do so, because support staff in many general education schools are still too few, these public schools, which are schools for children with special educational needs, could become regional competence centres. Rather, they should be developed so that they can be trained by teachers in general education schools who need some kind of refresher training, and children who need a more individual approach can also be directed there. I do not think that these schools should be easily handed over to local governments. If any, it is only in cooperation with local authorities, which means that several local authorities are working together to create this competence centre in their area. If one local government takes over such a school, it must be a very large municipality to want to develop a school for children with special needs. I think it could still be regional.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U268	Minister, you have run out of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U269	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U270	I invite the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Aadu Musta. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U271	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Education is a topic that must excite all members of the Riigikogu. I cannot fail to say, while searching for eye contact with Jaak White, that somewhere in Europe, where it is very fashionable to model all things and to compute large computers, it was realised a few years ago that Estonia's national independence was not likely. All I had to say was that a very poor computer or poor programmers and apparently something was missing in the components. I helped them immediately, and I believe it here: there was a missing component called the Estonian people's belief in education. Without it, perhaps our independence would not be likely. As far as the education development plan is concerned, just as there is a very long history on a number of topics that are being discussed today. The point is that the role of the Riigikogu committee in the discussion of development plans is relatively modest. This is an executive document and, according to official regulation, a hearing by the Minister in the Commission and then a large hall [debate] would have been sufficient for the whole debate. I congratulate this practice, which we have developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. In breach of some official command boards, we have reached the conclusion that we have already negotiated with the Commission the discussion of the working version of education in March 2020 so that the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu can also give its input into the development plan so that it is not only that afterwards one can say: yes, like it or not, and we also have questions. I would also like to stress that I may not go over the things the Minister said so nicely about. I did bring along the entire development plan and wrote a 20-minute speech with the first swing, which would have ended exactly 19.59. I just threw it in the drawer and thought I'd mark some important moments. It is certainly justified that, on the initiative of Jaak White, we discussed even more the role of the development plan than its content, that where we can help where we cannot. Finally, we have come to a conclusion as to what this development plan is all about. There's always been an effort when some people find that another doctoral thesis was defended, which set out the wonderfully subtle and smart things, but what hasn't been taken into account, and when others say, "Hey, there's a lecture in the fair style." Somewhere along the way, it's obviously an equilibrium point. The development plan was taken as a general direction in the Committee on Culture, which must reflect in particular those things where there is more or less consensus on which to go at all. As to the fact that a number of sharp points sometimes fall outside the development plan, I say yes, because politicians still want to argue about them and argue about them again. This does not mean that we have not had enough debate or discussion about these points of content either. As has already been said, we had unscheduled meetings on the subject. Members of the Commission fired out a series of very substantive and serious things there. Well, I'm comfortable right now because I think that some of our colleagues still want to speak and mark these things. There's been talk about not just the school network. There has certainly been much talk about the quality of education. There has been talk about the proportion of vocational and general education. There has been talk about promoting education in Estonian. There has been talk about the development of mobility habits. Everyone could be given the name, who has spoken with particular force and made proposals about these matters. The second time we discussed the same development plan, our meeting was on Monday, 11 January 2021. Then we had Minister Jaak Aab to introduce. At all, we have talked about this same development plan with three ministers. What was sympathetic? For me, these discussions, at least in the Commission, were how to say, inspire and educate, because indeed, this development plan was only one part of our work. After all, what Viktoria said about improving teacher education was not just about this development plan, but about our daily work. Or what did other colleagues say, such as Margit? I'm gonna start by looking at the ones left in the hall to praise them. He spoke about the work of the working groups who looked at the long vision of education. Indeed, we also had university professors who discussed these matters. In addition to Margiti, there were Raul Eamets and Margus Pedaste. In this sense, the [debate] became both deep and broad. Of course, if you are asking whether we were satisfied with the Estonian education arrangements, then come on, nobody was satisfied, in the sense that there are a huge number of things that can be done better. Were we satisfied with the development plan? I read in the record that we were mostly, found that he still sums up the general directions and marks where we have common things on the table. It is also important how many of the proposals of the Committee on Culture came into this development plan. We have already been promised in this zero round that we will make proposals, we will take them into account. After we looked and found something similar, not in this form, not in this form, but quite a number of proposals that came from the Commission can be said that they have reached the development plan. On the other hand, at this last official meeting, Jaak Aab also stressed that the development plan was not ready, what we looked at. It was argued that at the level of the government, this material will be reviewed even after hearing and validation in the Riigikogu, as this is the competence of the executive. So, in this sense, it cannot be said that there is also a final point today. When we look for eye contact with our colleagues in the Committee on Culture (they are immediately annoying when I say wrong): we have agreed among ourselves that we must make sure that good thoughts that are not fully furnished or that show directions can still be put into practice. Of course, this development plan is some sort of mid-term finish in the sense that we already have on one, another, third and fourth topic in the Committee on Culture. I could pick up and tell you what a beautiful member of the Commission said. If the questions ask, I'll try to find it here, but I tried to limit myself to the most general. I say once again that this is not the Commission's draft, it is the Ministry's draft and we have tried to provide our intellectual assistance and contribution to this development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U272	Thank you. And there are questions. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U273	Honourable Head of the Committee on Culture! The development plan for education as well as other important development plans of the Ministry of Education and Research has been in standby mode for a relatively long time. This development plan was discussed by the Committee on Culture in essence a year, perhaps even a year and a half ago. I'll remind you, there was an emergency. All the political groups had to send their amendments. In times of emergency, the development plan was very quick, but we reached a discussion a year or even a year and a half later, depending on how we look. It is certainly not the fault of the Committee on Culture, because we, for our part, were ready and working as fast and as practically as we could. But what was the reason? As head of the Committee on Culture, perhaps you will assess why our sectoral development plans have been in standby mode for so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U274	We have also talked about this in the Commission, and we also had to report in the Commission on what one or the other withdrawal has meant. First of all, during the three ministers, we have discussed this. In fact, it must be perfectly normal for a new minister to take office to look at whether what he buys is a pig or a cuckoo that needs to be worked on and moved on. I'm sure that's been one of the reasons. Another thing Viktoria referred to indirectly today was that when a major COVID epidemic or pandemic came, it suddenly became clear about a number of things that we had already considered resolved or normal or something else that wait-wait! One of them, for example, was the great wonder that we had to have such a powerful digital base. HITSA reported how all the suitcases were the best in the world that schoolchildren were given. But look, when the epidemic came, it turned out there were suitcases, but there's nothing in there, someone else had to put something in there or something like that. But a brief summary so I don't get too waved. To say the same briefly, of course, the special situation has shown us that we also need to look at the emergency situation. It actually arrived, and they tried to look at it as well. And how do I look or appreciate it? I look at it this way, because the Committee on Culture, for its part, is doing all the things that, in some cases, may seem posteristic, it is the task of the Committee on Culture. Members of the Commission have also tried to do this in order to comply with their own content and to continue legislation in this area in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. The world isn't over, which means he's in this phase today. This shows me that we must continue to work and move forward. The readiness of the Commission, as Viktoria herself knows, is quite high.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U275	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U276	Mr President! Dear waitress, The situation with the teachers is beginning to remind me of the times when there were enough potatoes on the field, but there was no one to take them, and then the lecturers and students of the University of Tartu went happily to the collective farm to deal with the matter. It seems to me that it will soon be with the teachers that we are going to draw lots here, who next year will be going to school to teach biology or history, regardless of our education, right? Please tell me, did you not, by chance, discuss bringing back the sphere of training for teachers on a national order in the Committee on Culture? Clearly, without it, we will not be able to plan any work or look to the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U277	Thank you. The previous questions to the Minister went over the same subject. It is clear from this that the Committee on Culture has, for its part, given the importance of the topic of teacher secondary growth quite vigorously and has written proposals and letters to the Ministry. But in this sense, I absolutely agree with the questioner that we have already realised that the crisis is at hand and the crisis is relatively deep, that it really needs to be dealt with vigorously, all the more so as to ensure that there is no reduction in these critical places, there will be more. After all, there was also a glimpse of the fact that trainers, or teachers, must receive a decent salary in order to train our children in the first place, and then it turned out that the trainers... I'm sorry! It was in the committee today, not in the hall. But trainers are sometimes even worse off. Young teachers at the university are paid much less. Think for yourself if it isn't a crisis when trainers no longer exist. And we're saying they should be educated. So I share this great concern and say that there is a very broad field of work ahead, there is no very clear light at the end of the tunnel at the moment, but we have to work day after day. It was easier in Soviet times, then Moscow was guilty. The Committee on Culture now senses that we have a co-responsibility for the education of our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U278	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U279	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question is about vocational education: on one side there is the popularisation of vocational education and on the other side there is vocational education based on the need for entrepreneurship. You have a very long experience in this area. I ask you, as an expert, whether this development plan contains the basics on which the operational programmes and action plans can move forward, so that vocational education goes in the right direction and gives a good result to society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U280	Thank you. That's a good question. It's close to me because until I came to the Riigikogu, I only knew what higher education was. It was a great surprise that vocational education is something of the utmost importance and necessity, and without it society is immediately capsized and sank. What gives me hope is that today we had a meeting of the Committee on Culture, where we heard the ministerial work plans from the Minister and offered our own side. One of the topics was the reorganisation of vocational education. On the one hand, there is a need for a very clear mapping of society's needs - Madam Minister - to talk about the OSKA reports and all the things that we have, of course, listened to in the Commission and, on the other hand, that vocational education has more capacity to do than we do now. I am not rushing to say this on behalf of the Commission, because it is not said in this form in the Commission. But if you can add a little more to your opinion, you can certainly combine vocational education not only with one-time, but also with lifelong learning, including retraining. At present, one of the places of crisis, which must be discussed not only with the Ministry of Education and Research but also with the Ministry of Social Affairs, is, in my personal understanding, that there are very cries with the re-training organised by the unemployment fund, while there is, like, a resource for vocational education that needs to be harnessed more forcefully. So the Commission has work to do in this regard. This development plan will allow this, be good and work and it will be possible to move forward. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U281	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U282	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Aadu! It's really good for me to listen to you. Indeed, there is not one ounce of sarcasm in my words, you speak so nicely of a fatherly soft thing that makes me deeply unhappy. Previously, the Minister was also criticised for the fact that this document is like a drag, I don't know, the Communist Manifesto at times. Then why is he like this? Why aren't there indicators? Why is he not more clearly worded? Let me give you a simple example. Could the Commission really not have had any influence on this matter? After all, we are talking about the issue of education, the long-term plan, and here is one part on the contribution of education to the UN's sustainable development goals. There are 17 major objectives and the fifth priority is to achieve gender equality. Period. Of course, there are no more specific attributes here. And also, to increase the influence of women and girls. That's great, isn't it? Is there really nothing the Commission could do here to eliminate such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U283	If Paul and I were to do a development plan together, we would. It could be pretty good, only there would be a lot of people who would say why it's overrated or it's less important. The development plan is a certain compromise. Another party stressed this very strongly. Of course, the Commission could contribute. I'm sorry if I say anything badly. We in the Commission believe that the quality of education is the most important, and all these other things are also important, so-called accompanying activities. Jaak White can assure you of that, the boys of your party believe more that there were some nasty things that were specifically decided to put under the variety on the proposal of Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U284	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U285	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I am asking the question that I have already asked the Minister during the discussion of the language development plan, and I have also raised this issue in my speech. Maybe you can enlighten us. How do you figure it out? The development plan of the language speaks about Estonian-language learning, the development plan of education speaks about Estonian-language learning when we talk about students with other language of instruction. How do you know which of these documents is more bossy and primary? What direction is our country now taking, towards the objectives set out in the language development plan or towards the objectives currently set out in the education development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U286	Well, the Riigikogu is such a nice animal, actually an animal with 101 heads and many legs. The horse has four legs. If you're asking me which leg is the most important thing he's gonna walk with, it turns out he's gonna walk with all four of them. So we're also looking at different development plans. A special committee dealing with language learning issues has done a great deal of work in this particular direction and direction of language learning. Soon we will hear a debate on a matter of national importance, where Eduard will also speak passionately. This committee, which Mikhail Stalnukhin is leading, has really taken this area with conscience and seriousness. Sorry, people are lazy by nature, maybe I was sometimes not overly ambitious as chairman of the committee in order to discuss the same issues as we have when it is already done in one assembly. This is an important issue and we will also come to this issue in the near future in the big Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U287	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U288	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Municipalities have an undoubtedly very important role to play in organising educational life. This document does not focus too much on how cooperation between municipalities and the state is planned to be resolved. Was there any mention of this at the meetings of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U289	There has been constant talk about this, there has also been talk about the division of labour between the state and local governments. I dare say that in recent years it has been spoken of in a peaceful and constructive, cooperative way. After all, I am a dinosaur in some way, and I remember how ten years ago there were two thoughtful parties in the Committee on Culture. Some were those who had been in a high state office, and others were those who had worked in the municipality. They saw different worlds. In several cases, some people from a ministry career said that local governments lack competence, etc. However, it has been agreed at the moment, in particular, that the Ministry will not be hasty to intervene in matters of school organisation. Even in the case of the school network, a very high priority is still given to local authorities. On the other hand, local authorities have given up to report on what the syllabus should be. We've got national agendas. In fact, here we, the Riigikogu mentality and local life can sometimes differ a little, because if the COVID was, then it was that, although the local government said that he was involved in the management and maintenance of the school, why there was no soap at the sink to wash his hands, more was dug into the ministry. But it wasn't like it was dependent on us, sometimes that's what happens when people imagine something. Cooperation is relatively good and, for its part, the Committee on Culture has repeatedly invited representatives of local government associations to our meetings as one interest group or as one party to all these issues. At least this one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U290	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U291	Honourable waitress! The Estonian Association of Mother Language Teachers proposed a review of the following paragraph in the development plan: "In order to diversify learning opportunities, improve the quality of education, and promote internationalisation and learning mobility for the wider promotion of Estonian language and culture. " The Estonian Society of Language Teachers commented on this paragraph: "Learning must be reciprocal, which means that our school is becoming more and more foreign-speaking, but foreign-speaking people do not speak our language. We see it at school constantly and increasingly. Ensuring the introduction of Estonian language and culture in this way is naive and distant. " Why was this proposal of mother tongue teachers not taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U292	I mean, now you're also asking why the sun still rises like this and why I'm not influencing it. The development plan was put together not by the Committee on Culture; that is what I tried to say softly at first. But there is one ray of hope. At least the previous minister said that today's debate is one of the components that will be taken into account when improving, finishing, debugging this same development plan. With regard to this very acute problem of internationalisation and native language, of course, I do not find a person in the Committee on Culture who would say that a child should not study in their mother tongue at an early age, etc. It's all right. At the same time, when I have been asked what kind of education I have received, I have said that I have received Estonian education, but in what language I do not know, because I have received a part of it in German, a part in English, a large part in Swedish, and I have a good Estonian education.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U293	Thank you. No more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U294	Lucky!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U295	We can go to the negotiations. A number of Riigikogu ambassadors have expressed their wish for negotiations. First please, this is Jack White.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear listeners, Dear technical staff! First of all, my group has made many proposals on the development plan. However, we were able to improve some things, but true, as the Chairman of the Committee on Culture quite competently described, this development plan has been carried out for a very long time, but unfortunately it has not been the beauty that has been made for a long time. I'm gonna explain why. But first, I must reiterate the simple fact that this process of processing development plans is not appropriate for a parliamentary state. The Riigikogu, elected by the citizens, can only discuss these development plans in advance and make proposals that the authors of development plans may take into account, but do not have to take into account. Let me remind you of what Parliamentaryism is. In this case, Parliamentaryism has been turned upside down: it is not the legislative power that gives guidance to officials, it is the officials who give direction to themselves. Since the Riigikogu must take these development plans into account in future legislation, the officials are in fact leading the parliament. Today I can try to convince you all that this is still not a very good development plan, and I can make it clear to some of you that this development plan is not good enough, but if I could convince even some of you, it still wouldn't change anything. This development plan shall be approved by the Government. The Minister has called on us to support it, but there will be no change as to whether we support it or not. All right, let's go. Secondly, the process of drawing up development plans is undemocratic and opaque. It is logical that, in order to ensure that the long-term strategy is as legitimised as possible, society's expectations are first examined in a broad way, opinion polls are conducted on a large basis, excellent research work is also carried out, and after that, experts who write this development plan together and Parliament discusses, complements and amends it and will adopt it once again. That's how it should work. Instead, we use some kind of false method, which we call democracy, sometimes also to include. Many events related to the development plan are organised and the opinions of many institutions and people are asked, but, first of all, it still does not give any overall picture of society's expectations, and secondly, only those proposals that are wanted and often only minor details are taken into account. So this is not a document that reflects society's expectations, but a document in which officials tell us where our society should be headed. We don't have anything against officials, do we? However, officials and governments have a role to play in a parliamentary country and this is not the role that comes out of this development plan. That's not how it works. The sign is that the persons who actually drew up this development plan have not been identified by name. It's an anonymous document from the bureaucrats. I'm sorry! This bureaucrat attitude seems everywhere. I will give just one example. The list on which the development plan is based or to which it is linked contains 19 documents from the United Nations, the European Union or the Council of Europe. An example of anonymous thought development born in the office is as follows: In particular, Annex 1 shows the contribution of education to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which is specifically set out, and you can look up. Objective 4.2 calls for: "To ensure that all girls and boys have access to quality early childhood development, care and pre-school education by 2030 so that they are ready to start primary education. " Well, frankly, I do not understand our contribution to this United Nations objective. A little more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U297	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U298	How do these girls and boys develop toddlers, and then what should Estonia do here, right? This must be a particularly incompetent translation. But basically, the question arises as to why the development of our learning needs to be linked to the UN's sustainable development goals. Do we not know how to develop our education? All in all, 19 of these documents give the impression that we are a very backward country or a colonial country that has no competence or is forbidden to make independent decisions, right? Now, I'm gonna get a little bit more serious, and I'm gonna bring up some of the bigger problems we've already pointed out. First of all, the text is unclear, there is often no distinction between objectives and instruments, and often there are instruments instead of targets. The objective, I remind you, is the vision of the future, which needs to be achieved in a purposeful way. A system of instruments is needed to achieve the objective. Here are the strategic objectives. There are three of them in total, but these are the two strategic objectives. Firstly, learning opportunities are selective and accessible, and the education system allows for a smooth transition between levels and types of education. Secondly, Estonia has competent and motivated teachers and school leaders, a diverse learning environment and learning from the learner. Those are tools! Those are tools! Okay, two. It is logical for the development plan to be carried out by analysing the reasons why the previous development plan failed to achieve these objectives. Without doing so, it is not possible at all to identify the bottlenecks in which we have problems. But we have no analysis of these reasons. Well, there's still a series of things that I just can't talk about right now. But I will also say that the indicators can be seen as a trend towards an ever-increasing number of people completing higher education. This objective, at least with regard to the current quality of higher education education, is highly doubtful. It is also very controversial that 95% of children between the ages of four should participate in early childhood education. Go on. It has been said in the meantime that we actually lack indicators for 40% of cases. This means that it is hard to believe that this development plan is even mature. I believe that Professor Black, who is very good at appreciating such texts, did not at all have the pleasure of defending this development plan. I would sum up in such a way that, firstly, the procedure is not acceptable, secondly, the content of the development plan is not acceptable and, thirdly, even if the content was acceptable, it is not mature in its own system either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U299	Thank you. Next, please, Marko Šorin!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U300	Dear Vice-Chairman, Dear Minister, Other people in the hall! Thank you very much to all those people who have contributed to this development plan! There are several ministers and experts who are truly familiar with the subject. This process has been really long. You might be comforted that if we go through this, he'll be kind of old at that point. But that's not what I mean in a negative sense, but in such a slightly optimistic and realistic tone. In order to achieve the future goals of Estonian education, we must maintain and further develop its strengths, but on the other hand, we must also find solutions to the current bottlenecks. The development plan for education 2035 sets one of the important goals that after 15 years, an open educational space allowing individualised learning has developed in Estonia. This includes learner-centred, supportive learning based on the needs and abilities of each learner. With this approach, everyone can choose a learning path based on their own interests and abilities. We do not have to ask for the development plan to solve all the problems, because even the best of us will probably not be able to think today about the challenges that education faces in 15 years' time, but this is the far end of this development plan. We should not so-called self-record that everything that is included in the development plan, we are dealing with, and what is not included in the development plan, we are not attracted to our attention. We'll fix directions, priorities and processes if you want to put it that way. The development plan is not a description of the chess game, in which it is possible to distinguish between opening, central and final. The University of Tartu economist Kurmet Kiviõld has said that Koronagi is a passing phenomenon, and if today it seems to us that this is an extremely important issue to deal with, then in 15 years, perhaps big eyes will be made to see whether anything else in education really had to be done at that time. Increasingly, there is a need to increase coherence and flexibility between all levels and types of learning. Student-centred education, which means options, regardless of the level of education and the boundaries of the institutions, can be based on the creation of educational centres. In this context, it is important to develop and implement the concept of regional education centres in order to create new forms of learning and opportunities to facilitate transitions between general, vocational and higher education and non-formal learning. It is a concern that the different pathways in secondary education are equally valued and that they guarantee access to higher education. The development plan for education aims to develop and implement a model of centres of excellence in professional areas, bringing together the excellence of one professional field for the development of this field and cooperating with educational institutions and the world of work. Unfortunately, the career paths opened through vocational education have not been sufficiently valued in society. We can do our part here. For learning opportunities to meet the needs of society and the labour market, it will continue to be important for employers to contribute to education. It is extremely important to find solutions to the current bottlenecks, how to reduce the proportion of people without professional education and how to better align the opportunities for further training and retraining with the needs of the labour market. The changing demographic situation also affects our education system. We know that due to natural growth, Estonia's population will decrease and that this will bring about the need to adapt the school network again and again. However, it is very important here that quality compulsory education is guaranteed in all areas of Estonia and that a school close to home is maintained. In view of the social value of education, we need to be aware of the wider meaning of education. This should be reflected in greater social cohesion, creativity and the capacity to innovate. These are values that help to cope in a rapidly changing world as well as in crisis situations. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U301	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U302	A changing society and new forms of work require a reshaping of existing skills, which requires a career shift and lifelong learning, so that retraining and self-development can be ensured throughout the life cycle. Flexible and practical continuing training opportunities and workplace-based forms of learning are becoming increasingly important. Looking ahead, we need to move towards a learning organisation where the learner can design his or her study path according to needs and abilities, including by studying in smaller modules and learning programmes, which can be considered as part of the formal education curriculum. It is likely that in the future more and more diverse environments and forms will be studied, in addition to educational institutions in the workplace, cultural institutions, youth centres, the digital environment, nature, etc. The school should have both youthful energy and life experience. Of course, it is crucial that young people, especially our best graduates, want to become teachers and work at school. Young people expect the school to do what other employers do: career opportunities, flexibility, a good working environment and a corresponding wage. As Riigikogu Ambassador Hepner referred to in his question, local government also plays an important role here. Post-growth of qualified teachers, vocational teachers and support specialists is not enough. The lack of teachers, however, is particularly acute in some subjects and varies considerably from one region to another. Logopaedics, specialized teachers, psychologists and social pedagogues are essential for teaching children with special educational needs, both at lower and higher special needs. In the case of early intervention, after a certain number of years, the child may be able to cope nicely in a perfectly normal and quite large class, and in the case of another child, one-to-one education may be the only solution. Inclusive education creates added value, but it must be achieved in a way where each student's development is best supported. The lack of funding for support specialists' work has, unfortunately, led to a delay or lack of support for many students. The provision of support specialist services is largely left to local authorities. Cities and rural municipalities have very different economic capacities and their revenue base is often in a position where additional expenditure for support specialists is simply not feasible due to previous budget cuts. This, however, puts pupils with special educational needs at an unequal position compared to ordinary students. It is also important to put in place support measures to direct people with special needs to the labour market and adapt to changes there. As far as financing is concerned, we all know that competition for learners is in all educational establishments. When we talk about early adolescents, vocational schools, universities and non-formal educational institutions are all competing for public money. I believe that the education development plan must provide expert and broad-based guidance for the next 15 years so that we can continue to provide our children with the best education in the world. We, the Riigikogu, must fulfil our role of lawmaking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U303	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U304	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U305	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U306	I love sitting in this hall when smart people talk. You can understand all the words. You can't understand half the content anyway. But I have the conviction today that I am not alone in this Chamber that half of what the Minister or my colleague Marko Šorin said did not make sense to people. Look, I still share my joy with you. A year ago, I think there was another minister in this hall, but we discussed more or less the same thing. Then again, the same PISA came up. I live in a place where the lockers are full of math books. Lucky, isn't it? I took out the eighth grade geometry textbook, the exact same thing I learned in the eighth grade in 1976. I have to tell you that an eighth grade student in the year.. this is only one subject, it was two hours a Give me that lucky kid who's gonna learn at least three these days! PISA is a very nice thing. It tells us very clearly that our children can read, and jeez, they even understand the texts they read. A fantastic achievement! But if that goes on, my dears, in 15 years' time, the next minister will report here that we have very nice children, at this age they already know that it is uncomfortable to eat soup with a fork, so you need a spoon. And they fucking know how to use the bathroom on their own! That's the kind of smart kids we have. Listen, our education goes downhill, every year more and more, more and more. I'm just spinning around with teachers all the time, I have a husband of a teacher who's worked at school for 40 years, I worked and taught myself for ten years. I know what to compare with, I know what to look at. You're surprised, but I'm here to talk about something else. A year ago, after we had discussed all this again here, a scientist schoolmaster, as he introduced himself, published a reply, I don't remember whether it was in the Postman or the Evening Paper, but at least it was printed. The text reads: "The question is not as much in language as in the level of teaching in Estonian schools at all. Just in the last twenty years, there has been a decline in the development, rearing and teaching of unbridled children. [... ] Between 2001 and 2012, the intelligence of the gymnasts (IQ) fell to 8 standard points in Estonian schools. This was demonstrated by Merle Kõrisaar's study of over 1,400 gymnastics conducted through the Institute of Psychology of the University of Tartu (but these data are not even intended to be published). "And here comes the moral, another: "In Argi life mostly encounters young people who, by class and/or auditoriums, can no longer understand or express the simple story of a lecturer." Colleagues! It was only today that we took an hour and a half to learn the sentence "Add to the ranking of building and renovating important national cultural buildings... " 'Absorptive. And for those of you who said it was possible to put it in second place or on the third row, they're right. Damn it, we're in the Riigikogu! That's how I formulate it. "Just the students of the Russian schools here still stand out for thinking and/or intelligent expression, as modern and innovative didactic methods of pseudo-methods were delayed in our so-called Russian schools. And let's get closer to the problem of the so-called PISA doesn't show what's going on in school!" I came here only because there were a few disparaging sentences again about the Russian school. These are children who do not speak Estonian, but they are taught quite a number of subjects - directors run in front of the train in Estonian and then they want them to be equal to the students of the Estonian school. After that, somebody else has the courage to say that they're not that smart, they're not that smart. How about you if you had to study this report in Norwegian, for example, after taking ten hours from a very average language teacher? So the problems of the Estonian education system are common, they are the same in both Estonian and Russian schools. We either solve these teachers' deficits, lack of methodologies, completely impossible educational resources for both Estonian and Russian schools, or we go all the way down. I'm inviting you over. On Thursdays, our people don't really like to be in this room, but also next Thursday, I suggest you listen to a matter of national importance. So I'm talking about teaching Estonian at a Russian school. Many things will become much clearer and more understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U307	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U308	Thank you, Mr President, for the recommendation to use this chair to raise another issue that I did not hear very much about today in this Chamber. I wanted to do this with the honourable minister on [relationship], but the Rules of Procedure did not allow us to raise this issue further. Then I thought I'd do it in the form of a short speech from here. The issue is already under way, i.e. continuing adult education. It is about this and it is about valuing education in Estonia. In certain sectors, at certain levels, we have everything quite well with it, people in general value education in Estonia, but there are certain moments when, for some reason, a false shame has arisen in society, as if continuing education would be awkward. I don't know how to put it into words. I know the adult high school directors myself, who say that well-known people come to them and ask if they could ever graduate from unfinished high school in a way that no one would know about it. It's a subject. It is embarrassing for people to go back and finish this education for whatever reason they have never left. There are a lot of reasons, these are very personal, there are economic problems, there are social problems, people are stuck between the gears of life, there have been family moments when they couldn't [learn], they had to feed the family, they couldn't graduate from high school. However, the acquisition and continuation of education should never be a disgrace in the Estonian country. This is where I'm asking for the Minister's help. To do this, we can overcome this gap in society, we also need communication work, we need information work. As a minister of excellent communication expert, I think we could put it on our own. I thank you very much for confirming your support for the value of adult education here at the speaker's desk. I think it's possible to do something so that no one should feel that ending their education is embarrassing or embarrassing, so he has to go secretly to the principal's office to ask me how to do it quietly. The state should recognise those people who go back to school and end up leaving the road. I was 45 when I went back to college and graduated from my master's degree, and I defended it. I'm proud of it, like, I think, anyone who does. It shouldn't just be Tanel Padar and a few people who dare talk about it. It should be natural in Estonian society for us to want lifelong learning, we want to end our early education at any stage. I think, as a society, we're gonna win this, win this understanding and understanding. No one can lose it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U309	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U310	I speak on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Minister, During the year, some aspects of the development plan for education have changed significantly. It can be seen that the proposals made by the political groups during the emergency period have also been taken into account in its preparation and development. However, there is a need for overemphasis on which problem areas in the field of education need to be addressed first. Let's start with the teachers' follow-up crisis. Obviously, there is no need to emphasise once again in this Chamber that we are dealing with a crisis, but still. The starting points for the development plan are the general objectives (if you open it) which will be written as priorities. The document has a total of three general objectives. The second general objective is this: "Estonia has competent and motivated teachers and school leaders, a diverse learning environment and learning from the learner. " It has to be said that the subject of teachers was even less highlighted in the original material. However, as regards the formulation of the current objective, I would assume that the topic of teacher follow-up, as one of the greatest challenges of today, would have been formulated as a separate general objective, because the topic of teacher follow-up should certainly become a national priority. In a few years' time, we will probably have a crisis in the field of education because of the drought of teachers. In fact, this crisis is knocking on the door, if not to say that it is already there. Last November, the Auditor General gave a speech to the Riigikogu, who stated that the power to provide high-quality education is beginning to slow down. Almost at the same time, the Estonian Educational Workers' Association stated that there are about 16,000 teachers in Estonia and, assuming that the teacher works for 40 years, we would need 400 new teachers in general education schools alone each year, but since almost half of the teachers leave after the first years of schooling, about 800 new teachers would be needed each year. This is the crisis we are facing. I would also like to read from the development plan a more precise wording for future solutions. Unfortunately, the role of solutions in the development plan remains very general. The Committee on Culture has drawn up and sent the government a list of its proposals on how to ensure the follow-up of teachers. The ball is now at the gate of the Minister of Education and Science and action is needed immediately. I am pleased that Liina Kersna has already said several times today that she really understands the situation we have. We know that there is a formula for launching political solutions: it will take one or two years to adopt and implement a political decision, five years to acquire education for those new teachers who, suppose, have faith in new solutions. This means that if a political agreement is reached now and we come to the conclusion that we can take some decisions now, then, at the earliest in seven years, the situation will start to improve. This means that next year, perhaps this crisis will get worse. The importance of this paper sent by the Commission is that it is indeed cross-party. As the Minister rightly pointed out in this speech chair, this is quite a good place to start negotiations, hopefully also at the level of the government. Our proposals, which were sent to the government, concern the development of a systematic action plan to ensure the follow-up of teachers and the popularisation of the teaching profession, the development of a career path for teachers and support professionals, the provision of an motivating working environment, support for start-up teachers and the strengthening of the role of traineeships and pedagogical subjects in teacher training. Parliament has done its great work. I sincerely hope that the government will base this document. The aim of the development plan is to put this document together nicely. Moreover, this adds to the specificity that is currently lacking in the development plan. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U311	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U312	Another major issue is the priority areas. There's a couple of words like that in the document. This is a clear issue for the future. In higher education, the state should identify strategic areas where the post-growth of specialists must be ensured. The issue of the secondary growth of educators, as well as health professionals, should certainly be highlighted as a matter of priority. The third issue is vocational education. Current trends show that the labour market needs solutions for skilled workers and vocational training. However, the subject of vocational education has remained narrow in the development plan. On this subject, we would expect bold ideas, solutions, a clearer picture and an idea of what our plan for vocational education is. Fourth, Estonian-language education. Here's an interesting nuance. If the Estonian language development plan tries to formulate the thoughts of Estonian-language education and suggests that solutions should be sought from the educational development plan, the educational development plan itself remains vague about Estonian-language education. It is confusing whether we go over to what model we apply and what educational model we have in Estonian in general. But it is also clear that one cannot formulate what has become a confusing political message. For the final conclusion. The development plan is incomplete. As the main problem areas, I see that the development plan does not provide clear answers to the most acute questions in the field of education, such as teacher secondary growth, the reflection and alignment of the vocational education model with the needs of the labour market, the improvement of educational opportunities for children with special needs and the precise and correct formulation of the education system in Estonian as a goal. But let's hope the minister listens to us and soon we'll be happy with the visions of how to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U313	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U314	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The development plan for education is an undoubtedly important document. I would not be so critical as to say that it is completely meaningless and empty. Then I would certainly hurt the people who have handled this document. But there's more than enough reason to be critical. The first keyword, which I would like to highlight and on which I also formulated a question for the Minister, could be summed up by the word 'formal'. I'm just starting with the gauges. If we have three major strategic directions with a total of 20 metrics and 10 of them are texted that metrics are being developed, specified, there is a new indicator, it just shows that work is incomplete. Of course, the Riigikogu can also be involved in such processes, it is perfectly normal. The Commission normally gives its input and the document is produced, but I find it a little embarrassing to come to the large hall with such a document. Now some substantive questions about the development plan that I want to highlight. They're a little connected to this formality, too. I think it is important that the development plan really deals with the Estonian language (we had an Estonian language development plan) and comes back to the Estonian language. To a good colleague, Stalnukhin, I would say that if I and my children lived in Norway, I would not expect the Norwegian state to give me an education in Estonian. It would be my duty to learn Norwegian there. I understand, of course, that there is a slightly different environment in Narva than in the rural municipalities of Raplamaa, but in Raplamaa we were able to complete the transition to Estonian education in 2000. If you think the municipalities didn't have to make an effort to do so, you're wrong. A little support was provided by the state, but much of this effort came from the municipalities. In fact, it is not the case that the state pushes everything forward, although I admit, here the country has a very big role and it is not possible to create all this overnight. But let's look at some other aspects. The state wants to take a leading role in secondary education. We know that we have state secondary schools, but municipalities also have upper secondary schools, where in fact the number of students is very considerable, there are two or three parallels, perhaps in some cases much more. It is questionable whether the country should play a very large role there. Perhaps it should be thought that the whole side of general education will eventually come back to the municipalities at one point. Or what is really a question and where I, as chairman of the Raplamaa Municipalities Association, really expect a great vision of the country: it is about the education of children with special educational needs. A comprehensive solution to public schools where today a simplified curriculum will create learning opportunities for children, what their future will be. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U315	Yeah. How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U316	I'll take three.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U317	Here's what we're gonna do. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U318	What is the future of these schools? What are the opportunities for municipalities here to cooperate with the state? What are the possibilities of mobilising some kind of fund, finance? We know that the municipal income base is structured in this way, that there is no really internalised investment component. That's a serious question. Perhaps it would be worth going from here to cooperation: the state, the municipalities, but also the private sector. The private sector is also a very important player in education, not only in recreational education, where it plays a very serious role, but we also have community schools, we have private schools. The private sector is crucial. This could also be more clearly addressed in this development plan. I looked at the budget summary table. It contains [amounts] of strategic objectives, three pieces of them are, and these aggregate amounts are actually quite large, which this development plan should manage. This year and next year is just over a billion, but by 2035 it will be 2.34 billion. It's not change. These are, in fact, very, very large sums of money that need to be managed wisely, so that the result is maximum, so that we can achieve the objectives we have as a country and as a nation and which we have great challenges to achieve. In this respect, in summary, my request to the Minister, my proposal to the Government, after today's hearing, is to do some serious work so that these thoughts, which have been said here, can still be dealt with, can be resolved. I also looked at how much the Cities and Municipalities Union's proposals have been taken into account. Of course, some things have been taken into account, cannot be denied, but so many places have, in my opinion, remained unduly in the air, in the grey zone, no clear position has been taken. Indeed, work on this development plan must continue. We work hard to ensure that one of the greatest riches of the Estonian people is wise people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U319	Thank you very much, thank you. Now I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Eduard Odinets. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U320	Yeah, now. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chairman, Dear Minister, Very much has already been said, both praises and criticisms, and I too join both praises and criticisms. The first words of praise for this great work. Indeed, three ministers have come to the Commission to present and talk about this plan. In fact, a lot of people were involved in this process. The document came from a multi-page document, let us say so, in some points very substantive, but on some points very general and very non-spoken, as several colleagues have already pointed out. I would like to focus my speech on some aspects which I, as well as certainly, consider important by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I want, of course, to start with non-formal education, which is very topical and was very topical and very important to the social democrats throughout the spring. This is an education of interest, which is part of the education of children and certainly part of a personalised learning path and is of paramount importance. I am simply reminding the Minister and everyone else that it is not the children's fault that the government has decided to cut back. I strongly and continue to ask, if possible, the coalition ambassadors to ensure that children's recreational education [funding] is not reduced twice. When we say that municipalities have a larger income base and they cover this deficit from other funds, that is not the case. I have written a public letter to the minister about the situation in my home town, Kohtla-Järve. Next, maybe I'll touch higher education in a few words. In fact, the objective set in the development plan to review the learner's ownership and conditions of free learning makes it very cautious. This is what I have repeatedly called a sneaky paid higher education from this remote control. I don't know if our society, whether our colleges are ready for this. Yes, it goes on to say, of course, that a system of support for education must be developed so that those who are unable to pay themselves have the opportunity to receive public support. But in a purely semantic way, I would like to put these sentences in the opposite order: first we develop a support system and then we look at the learner's own contribution. This would probably result in fewer feelings and emotions in me and in other colleagues. But now I'm going back to the main issue. However, it seems to me that the main issue in this development plan, as well as in our conversations and speeches, is general education. We understand that general education is this base, this basis, which is the basis for all the following things, including research and development, higher education and all that. This is worrying, although the Minister here assured us that his desire is not to make all Estonian primary schools six years old. He admitted that there are 111 schools with less than 30 children in the third grade, and the local government must seriously think about what it is doing with it. If such signals are already coming from the level of the development plan, this is a very clear signal to a very large number of municipalities to shut down the third stage. Certainly the state, as it was with high schools in its day, "motivates" such decisions financially. We will certainly hear and see these decisions after the local elections, especially when the country in its development plan says that local authorities will not be obliged to provide nine-class education in rural areas in the future. This is a serious problem. If it all goes down like this, it's gonna completely end up dying out in a lot of areas. The second issue that I touched on today by asking questions, and several colleagues too, is Estonian-language learning or Estonian-language learning. I would seriously like to understand sometime, I do not know whether this will happen here in the Riigikogu during my mandate, which is the purpose of the Estonian state. When we process the language development plan, we talk about Estonian-language learning, when we process the educational development plan, we talk about Estonian-language learning. This is confirmed by metrics. For example, let's look at the metric in 2035: 95% of middle school graduates speak Estonian at B1 level. This means that the educational development plan does not aim at teaching in Estonian, because if 15 years from now the study is in Estonian, it is not possible that only 95% of [Estonian] speaks should be, I do not know, 102% who speak, if not 100%. In this sense, this objective confirms that what is in the language development plan may not be our real path. But I hope that when the Minister comes to the Commission first, hopefully, in November, with an Estonian language learning plan, we will hear more about which development plan is still more important. Of course, the situation in Ida-Virumaa also depends very much on it. I told you today that there are simply no teachers, even if schools would like to teach in Estonian. Personalized study paths. The development plan says that schoolteachers, teachers and teachers have a great degree of autonomy in the performance of their duties. But we still have a very strict curriculum with our outputs. That means you can't personalize much. Even educational scientist Grete Arro has said that the volume of the curriculum is too large for real learning. This is one subject that we definitely need to look at. I will touch on an interesting subject on which the development plan will not stop. This is a gender gap in our education system. Only 12% of teachers are male. This is a very big problem, and I am sorry to see that the development plan does not pay enough attention to the gender context, but it should, because there will be quite a lot of things going on there, the success of our boys and everything like that. Of course, salaries, salaries, and wages again. The Minister has already mentioned today that he will stand up for this in the government tomorrow, and today, in the Committee on Culture, he also spoke about the specific figures with which he is going. That's 60 million going to apply for the Minister of Education. Good luck, good minister! There's a lot to depend on it. The development plan says that there is trust in teachers in society. The question is what it is about. Is this reflected in this 3% wage increase? I'm sure it doesn't. Society must show its support to teachers, their concern for them and their trust in the teaching profession and offer more. This is also accompanied by the whole topic of teachers' secondary growth. As long as there is no confidence that the state cares, the state worries, the state creates conditions, from a flexible curriculum to a decent salary, we cannot talk about secondary growth. No follow-up action will work if we simply do not have people who are willing to do this job, be they men or women. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U321	Thank you very much. For information that everyone is welcome to speak in the negotiations, all members of the Riigikogu. So come bravely. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Margit Sutrop. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U322	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Good listeners! The process of drawing up the development plan began spectacularly already in 2018 with the creation of a vision by 2035. Three expert groups were set up: an expert group on values and responsibilities, well-being and coherence, and competitiveness, with hundreds of experts participating, thousands participating and conferences. The future visions and proposals of the expert groups were given to the Ministry of Education and Research the day after the Riigikogu elections in March 2019. Now, almost two and a half years later, we are finally coming to its adoption. Since I had the honour of leading one of these visionary expert groups, I have followed these discussions very closely and know how many hours of work hundreds of experts devoted to visionary work, and thousands participated in the inclusion events. Thank you all for coming this way together. In some ways, when I read this development plan and was preparing for today's presentation, I was under a certain pressure. I looked critically at myself, of course. The creation of a vision for education by 2035 was started from mapping the challenges facing Estonian society. It was very important to find solutions to these problems through education and science. Education targets were set on the basis of future monitoring, where the world and Estonia are moving by 2035 and how Estonia's education should change as a result, and it was assumed that we would not be involved in dragon change, but that we would shape the surrounding environment in the desired direction. But for that, we must first agree where we want to move by 2035. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the development plan that we are discussing today is rather based on the need to address today's bottlenecks, education bottlenecks and refrains from telling us what the world should be like, which we leave for our children and grandchildren. There is a vague talk about promoting life in Estonia as a general goal, but not about what kind of life we want. Perhaps something has gone wrong in creating vision. In formulating the objectives of the sectoral development plan, we said that education must contribute to prosperity, both for individuals and for society. We must ensure the sustainability of Estonian culture; we must contribute to the competitiveness of the Estonian state, to the development of a common value area and to sustainable development. But somehow it has turned out that we're talking about the middle of general education today. It is really right (I have also been in the process of drawing up a lifelong learning strategy) that general education somehow seems anxious, you want to say something that should change there. But precisely because the previous education strategy focused so strongly on general education, we tried to stress in expert groups in the case of vision-making that science and higher education are the basis for everything. The whole pyramid needs to be turned around because today's bottlenecks, including education bottlenecks, can only be addressed through university, higher education, the preparation of specialists from different walks of life, teaching teachers, as well as research. Therefore, I am saddened that, in fact, when science was separated into a separate strategy together with R&D&I, science was probably excluded from this educational development plan, and so only marginal remarks mention higher education. It's a place of concern. The visionary process started because we looked at what were major developments. These major developments, such as the accelerating development of technology, demographic trends, migratory pressures, educational systems and labour market changes, actually require a response to the education system. Based on these future trends, the expert groups proposed the following focus points in the educational vision by 2035: a seamless education system, i.e. an open educational space involving both formal, non-formal and informal learning, flexible learning pathways and lifelong learning, a single educational space in Estonian, and finally the most important: prioritising science and innovation as the foundation of education and the key to Estonia's competition. What's good now? The good thing is that the development plan for education is able to map the pains of Estonian education very strongly and well, where solutions need to be found. In providing these solutions and activities, the strongest and new direction is that it is proposed to develop a common cultural and value area and to ensure high-quality education in Estonian. The development plan emphasises that the teaching of Estonian language and culture must be made a national priority in Estonia, valuing the teaching of Estonian as a mother tongue and national language. It is important to provide Estonian language skills and support for the development of the Estonian language as a higher education and scientific language for graduates with a different mother or home language. At the same time, foreign language learning is also encouraged and Estonian language learning by foreign students and lecturers is enhanced. Thus, in my opinion, the educational development plan supports the target set in the Estonian language development plan: the transition to Estonian-language school education, which ensures the integration of children and young people into the Estonian cultural and value area, gives everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and enables them to continue their studies at the next level of education. After all, we know that there is currently a large gap in post-secondary educational choices between students in Estonian and Russian comprehensive school. Of those who have completed basic education in Russian, 10% less will go to higher education after upper secondary school than the alumni of the Estonian-language school. Therefore, the difference between [reduction] and education in Estonian is in the interest of Russian-speaking children. This is certainly very positive. But all the other priorities that have been set, such as learner-centredness or transition to a new, so-called self-governing learner, or the training of competent and motivated teachers, are, in fact, familiar with the previous education strategy. Unfortunately, we know that we have not been able to take very strong steps. The problem of boys in education is, in fact, not just a question of boys' attitudes, but also a question of teachers' attitudes. If curricula and teaching methods are not so interesting that boys would like to come along, the dropout rate will be easy to come, but the consequences will be very painful for society. This means different educational gaps between women and men, women do not find partners with the right level of education, they marry foreigners, they become small, our labour force is not productive, men go to easy work in Finland, and populist parties are happy to lure them into their ranks because they are dissatisfied with everything and everyone. It can be said that the solution to these problems, be it the problem of boys in education or the introduction of a new, learner-centred approach, is actually in science and higher education. That is why I would like to conclude by expressing my satisfaction that we have a THAILAND. I hope that we can work together within one ministry to bring higher education and science into the educational agenda. One of the main features of the 2035 vision was that education must be based on science. This means not only knowledge-based decisions in the design of educational processes, but also what is taught and how. I very much hope that this same educational development plan will allow solutions to these social pains by finding solutions to problems such as underfunding higher education, and then other problems in Estonian society can be quickly resolved. Thank you. Power to the Ministry and to all people in the field of education!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U323	Thank you very much. I continue to call for compliance and implementation of § 156 (5) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I now ask the Riigikogu to speak to Riina Sikkut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U324	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard about adult learning, about how the process of drafting the development plan looked, about learning the Estonian language, about learning the Estonian language and about the salaries of teachers. The members of the Riigikogu have already given, reflected and evaluated this development plan through their experience. Indeed, the process of drawing up the development plan has been very long and thorough. I also encourage everyone to familiarise themselves with the vision documents drawn up as the basis for this development plan, which will present a picture of what our education system would look like in the future. But I'm not really talking about this development plan, because in the meantime, we've had corona for a year and a half, and the education system has passed such a test. How do you view it now in the light of the development plan? The reason I came to the remote, in addition to the chairman's invitation, was to have a conversation with a young schoolmaster almost a week ago who said: "But, Riina, our education system is designed to provide or maintain stationary contact training. "If we are now talking about e-learning, distance learning, distance learning, digital learning, based on coronal experience, this is not some simple textbook digitalization, but it means a much more fundamental rethinking of the learning and teaching process. For me, it put everything in a different light. I'll explain. Whether we look at a schoolhouse or a schedule, teacher training, how electronic textbooks are made available online, how a teacher scans a worksheet for distance learning, sends a student, prints out, completes a picture, sends a picture to a teacher, yes, it can be done, we can call it digital learning or e-learning. But it's not really. It's an emergency solution. I myself have brought this parallel to the occasion that, just as Tallinn Water tells us that there is no water on Friday from 10:00 to 3:00, for example, and then everyone is getting ready to fill the pot with water, who stores water in the wash basins or fills the bathtubs, depends on the day on which someone plans, as well as on the rapid adjustment of the education system in emergency situations. Well, it was necessary to send the worksheets, it was necessary to get the Zooms or Teams or Google Classrooms quickly clear, and it was done. But we can't see it as something we could use for a long time. Just as we don't want the water to be gone every day from 10 to 3, so we don't want all teachers and students to be ready to study this way, it's one day a week or every other week or some other frequency. We have an education system for inpatient contact training and, above all, it should be used for this. But the crisis experience certainly benefited greatly. We saw it fit a third. Some teachers were quick adjusters. We have very talented teachers who make such attractive videos that children just watch them next to their school program in their spare time. With all this in mind, I think that such real e-learning, digital learning, is something that we should make sense of and implement. Does this mean, then, that in some state secondary schools there is a digital learning module? This requires not only the Ministry of Education, but also a wider debate in society, which means that when a child is in digital learning. What skills do we appreciate? Is digital training... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U325	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U326	... can we give you the general competences we currently have in our curriculum? If using Lingvist or any other program, a child learns to ask for tea superfastly in English, German and French and in restaurants, then how can you make sure that he actually dares to say in three foreign languages when he looks at the real person? In the case of digital training, these obstacles may be quite different from those in the class. It could be good, it could be bad. I myself, thinking about school, remember that the error in solving a math problem in front of the board was still embarrassing. Maybe making a mistake in front of the screen isn't so embarrassing, but we know we have to make a mistake. Making mistakes, learning from our mistakes, and finding a solution is what makes us work hard and that strengthens knowledge. So how can you make error more comfortable, pleasant and, at the same time, increase the number of errors for the student to learn more and better from them? All of these are important components, which we, I think, using correctly, will both get more individual learning paths and a better solution for the student. Yes, there are those who prefer to delve on their own, maybe prefer to read the material themselves, think, ask for more if necessary, but in this case, does each subject need to have a teacher at school? Do you have to have a schedule? Do you have to go to the screen at 8:00 in the morning? Or are we offering a different degree of flexibility? Do you need to assess your self-management skills before you allow a student to study digitally? How to do it, it's quite a nut. But I hope that in the next few years we will be able to do this, and we will also see this real digital learning. I also hope that we will not place this digital learning obligation on these 15,000 teachers and almost all learners. Of course, the skills of using modern technology must be given to students and the learning must be diversified. Maybe some things are better done with some kind of digital test, can get the job checked faster, and the teacher's time can be saved. So there is no doubt room for applying digital technologies to 'normal learning', but I think that this should be done with great thought, so that the good that contact learning allows is not reduced or cut off for very many people. So, a large audience in the Chamber, I think we could also deal with the topic of digital learning and e-learning in the OTRK or the Committee on Culture as part of our daily work and invite specialists to think that we can take the next step, so that in the next development plan there is also this crisis experience and digital learning in mind. Let's take this step forward. Oh, I inspired the next speaker. In any case, the strength to implement what has been agreed for all staff and ministers in the field of education! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U327	Thank you very much. I continue to call on everyone to implement Article 156 (5) of [the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure]. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair, Jevgeni Ossinovski. And I ask you, do you have eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U328	I don't think so, but let's see how it goes. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't gonna come here, but I'm gonna say a few words. Why didn't I want to come? To put it mildly, skepticism against development plans seems to be well-known to everyone who knows me a little bit more. The process of drawing up development plans has been one of the most time-consuming and most effective in the public sector, as far as I have seen from the various parties. And, unfortunately, this development plan doesn't differ from its outcome, but I was wondering what I was going to do here. But then I heard my colleague, Margit Sutrop, talking, and I realized what I did not like in this development plan: I have already seen it. Open up the Lifelong Learning 2020 strategy! It's almost literally the same. The problems are the same, the metrics are the same, some have been slightly improved, some have been added, but basically we are dealing with mostly the same issues as we had on the agenda for 2012, 2013 and 2014. We then set out to solve them by 2020. It turned out that it didn't, because either there was no political will or it wasn't possible to solve them or you ran out of ideas. There are different reasons for different things. Well, let's put the same goals again and try for the next 15 years, now there's more time, 15 maybe we'll finally get to the mountain. This concerns topics such as the fact that teachers should pay 120% of the Estonian average. I have worked in various occupations in recent years rather than in recent years, but let's say, in the early years of the lifelong learning strategy, I have contributed and worked hard to move towards higher pay for teachers. But then came the [new] government, two years' wages were not properly raised, and now this goal is not achieved. We are facing a relapse, as the Minister has acknowledged today. And what are the benefits of this targeting, when the highest priority for the Estonian state is that the pay of teachers would still be such that it would be motivating for young professionals, but then there will be budget negotiations, they say that there is little money and more money is needed elsewhere, and that is it. Well, we put 120% by 2035 there is even more ambitious: in 2024 it should be achieved and then kept. Well, good luck to the Minister! Good luck to the Minister. EUR 200 per year for the minimum wage. In any case, we support, there is no question. This is very important, undoubtedly. But in short, if we set such goals, I would like to see really real decisions that lead in this direction. Just to talk about it being a very high priority... I am always most opposed to the fact that real actions and rhetoric are very controversial. They say it's such a big priority that there's no bigger one. Then you look at the decisions, and unfortunately the decisions don't confirm it. Even in the current national budgetary strategy, which has been confirmed, we can see that education spending as a percentage of GDP is actually decreasing, rather than increasing. By the way, the previous Lifelong Learning Strategy specifically aimed at ensuring that the share of education expenditure in GDP was also set as a measure. I think it's worth considering. That's the first half. The other side is, of course, that the development plan could be useful enough to ideally formulate either the whole field, as Mr Sutrop said, or at least some part of some kind of holistic vision that the education actors... Give me three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U329	Yes, of course, please! I could tell it was coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U330	[[Laughing.]] It is said that it is the responsibility of the municipality to provide early childhood education. Okay, there is a duty to ensure that we understand that there should not be a shortage of nursery places. It's a good goal, of course, but it's a little short. I'd like to know what kind of early childhood education is, wouldn't I? We take it from one of the few specific points that in small places the third grade of school should become a community decision, euphemistically [according to]. In practice, we see and the Ministry sees the need for contraction. Well, that is a strategic objective, if indeed objective facts are such, then it should be discussed in substance. I would try not to say how it is going, but to systematically see how we imagine this network and actually and honestly talk about it. Understandably, it's not comfortable, but I think it's the right thing to do. After all, there is nothing at all about higher education in this plan except that glimpses are said to be an analysis of whether, at least in part, it would make higher education worthwhile. This is one of the discussions that society has had. Personally, I do not support it, but it is obviously one of the issues that requires very thorough discussion and agreement in society. This development plan could be the agreement. It is also not possible to adopt a higher education development plan where the greatest challenges in higher education have simply not been addressed. How, then, will world-class higher education be provided in Estonia if its key questions are actually unanswered? As a result, I can see with difficulty that this document is needed. That was my question to the Minister. Let's imagine this development plan stays in a drawer somewhere. Then, of course, it is a pity of all the people who have worked hard to compile it. But what's really gonna change? The minister himself mentioned things that he thinks must be done. Well, then we're gonna have to do these things, the things we're gonna have to do. This does not require a development plan. Let's pick it up and do the things that need to be done. What is the added value that this development plan gives specifically? Is there a systematic approach to some area, some kind of purpose for vision? I'm afraid you won't find it there. I'm inconsistent, I'm inconsistent. This is, in fact, only a single example of the extreme superficiality of the country's strategic planning, and as such, I do not think it makes any sense. But this train is going at a great speed. "Estonia 2035" was accepted with a great hurrah. There were years of work here, there were all kinds of conferences and meetings, there was talk about how this document will make Estonia's life better. Doesn't change anything because of this document. There is, of course, a need for substantive strategic planning. I don't know if it's supposed to be different, but his outcome should be different. The parties in the sector, those who work in this area, who are in charge of it, should understand in the same way where they are going and that no choices have been made. It is not in this document.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U331	Thank you very much. So, any more calls? Is there anything else the Minister would like to say? If not, if that is the case, then it means that we will close the negotiations. Okay, the negotiations are closed. I would also like to say thank you very much for my part before we finish working on this point. Many thanks to the Ministry of Education and Research, the Minister, the Committee on Culture, the Chairman, the Members and everyone who thought about it, said how to take different steps better in the future, how to do better in terms of design collection! So thank you very much! The debate is closed and the decision of the Riigikogu is not adopted here. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U332	We will move on to the sixth item, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U333	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you at second reading to talk about what has happened in the government between these readings. On 9 March 2020, the Government of the Republic submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, which passed the first reading on 6 May 2020. At the time, the second reading of the draft was awaited by the European Commission for authorisation of the measures in the draft. The State aid permit was issued to Estonia at the end of 2020. The draft allows, inter alia, [owners] of existing production equipment to participate in national offers for renewable electricity, and it is in this respect that the Ministry of Economic Affairs sought a solution to move forward with coalition partners from the beginning of 2021. The solution was found on 7 June and this draft had to move to second and third readings at the end of June. However, due to the obstruction implemented by the opposition, the readings of the draft were not reached at that time. The compromise involves two substantive changes compared to the original draft. Firstly, the aid paid to an existing plant must not exceed EUR 10/MWh according to the compromise. In the current draft, it was EUR 15/MWh. Secondly, the period of support for an existing production plant must not exceed two years according to the compromise. It was three years in the draft tabled. These changes are essential to ensure that existing production equipment is able to compete with other production equipment for less supply. This is the most favourable solution for consumers to increase the share of renewable energy in the Estonian electricity system. For example, the support for existing plants today is EUR 53.7/MWh, the proposed amendment would amount to EUR 10 and maybe even lower depending on the market price of electricity. The price ceiling is EUR 60/MWh. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft will also make it possible to improve the security of supply of the electricity system, in addition to higher and more consumer-friendly renewable energy production. AS Elering, our system operator, has estimated that there must be at least 1000 megawatts of production equipment in the Estonian electricity system. The increasing share of wind and solar energy in our electricity system also increasingly requires controlled production equipment. This change is capable of contributing to the security of supply of the circa 200 megawatts of capacity. In addition to the above, according to the draft, the security of supply of district heating in the city of Narva can also be resolved. The use of oil shale for heat production is not environmentally friendly. By allowing the use of waste wood or biomass in the 11th energy unit of the Baltic Power Plant heating the city of Narva, it is also possible to ensure a stable price for district heating for the region. The Ministry is already working on a long-term solution today, but its impact is likely to come in 2025. Only energy produced from fuels meeting sustainability criteria or, in the case of waste wood, from fuels complying with the waste hierarchy can be supported. This means that the fuel must not have any other alternative use, only combustion. This will ensure that sustainable fuel is used to produce energy when receiving support. The current approach is in line with the European Union's environmental policy and also corresponds to the content of the European Commission's "Objective 55" climate package published on 14 July. The corresponding draft is already in the Riigikogu proceedings. The number of the bill is 383. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U334	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U335	Thank you. Dear Minister, You rightly said that the production of oil shale in Narva is not environmentally friendly. However, the purpose of the same support measure is also indirectly to subsidise the production of oil shale heat. While the burning of wood is directly subsidised, because of the technologically burning oil shale with wood in the 11th block of the Baltic Power Plant, it actually subsidises the production of oil shale heat, which is not environmentally friendly, as you yourself said. And in your vision, we should start paying for it, which, in my opinion, doesn't make any sense. But the question is based on your claim that burning wood in Narva for consumer money is the cheapest way to get renewable energy. Now there have been a number of fewer offers for predominantly solar projects, where in fact the result has been essentially zero. Under the tariff, they are prepared to build it. On what basis do you say that EUR 10 per megawatt-hour is the most advantageous if the real results are in place to be prepared for zero?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U336	Thank you. For the inhabitants of the city of Narva, it will certainly be considerably more advantageous if material that does not go under the CO quota can also be used as heating material and, secondly, if it does not have to use natural gas. In the longer term, as I said, a solution similar to the city of Narva must be found, as most Estonian cities have. In other words, wood chips are used to heat the city in CHP plants. And I believe that once the plans for a fair transition fund have been approved, we can also resolve this issue definitively for the city of Narva. Today, as an interim phase, I think it is reasonable to support the use of environmentally friendly heating.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U337	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U338	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The bill contains a ceiling on the subsidy rate relating to the exchange price of electricity. If the price of electricity is more than EUR 60 per megawatt-hour, no support shall be granted. Surprisingly, however, the limit is the arithmetic average of previous month's prices, which in no way precludes the risk of over-compensation. A simplified example. If the price is 30 euros in half hours and 70 euros in half hours, the average is 50 euros and Eesti Energia receives full support according to the draft. This is also the case if it actually produces only in hours when the price is EUR 70. Therefore, the obligation of the draft directive and the authorisation of State aid to exclude overcompensation cannot be ruled out. Why didn't you want to go into an hourly allowance calculation that would rule out over-compensation? The data is real-time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U339	I do not see the possibility of over-compensation with a system such as the one proposed. If you look at today's price, no support will be paid. And I don't think we can be satisfied with the situation that has developed today. The price of electricity is very high. The Narva plants are working, but the electricity price doesn't make it any cheaper for us because we have to pay the quota fees. I think that, in the long term, should this situation continue, in fact, we should think very deeply about whether such a quota system justifies itself. Because there is a shortage of energy in the region and consumers will eventually pay off this quota system unwittingly. But in this case, too, there will certainly be no overcompensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U340	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U341	Thanks! It is no secret that this bill increases consumers' electricity bills because we are going to inefficiently burn wood at Narva plants. If you look at today's electricity price, which is still, I don't remember... I don't think it's ever been this high. I have to admit, according to my calculations, Narva stations would not qualify for this support at all. But when the price of electricity comes down and they qualify, consumers expect the price of electricity to fall after so high. At the same time, in Narva, the burning of wood and the renewable energy charge impose an additional burden on consumers. Why do you hate the consumer so much that you want to impose more expensive electricity on them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U342	Thank you. On the contrary, this bill brings down the price of electricity and also the price of heating. Fuels shall be used which shall not be subject to additional levy on quota fees. And that's how the price gets more favourable to the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U343	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U344	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If, as a result of this decision, Estonia will increase the use of energy wood by about 15%, how do you feel about reducing or increasing the pressure of logging in Estonian forests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U345	Thank you. No, this bill certainly does not increase the pressure of logging in Estonian forests. As I have already told you, the waste hierarchy is still based. The burning of quality wood is not possible, firstly, because of this hierarchy, and secondly because of the price, it is not possible. So it certainly does not increase the pressure of logging on Estonian forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U346	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U347	Thank you, Minister. In addition to this bad draft, which is harmful to both the environment and the consumer, you have brought us here another draft, which will result in a 40% increase in the renewable energy fee for ordinary consumers in order to subsidise a handful of large companies. Given the extremely high electricity prices, this idea seems completely insane. Please tell me, will you withdraw this bill, 344 SE from the proceedings of the Riigikogu and give citizens some rest on the energy price increases you are putting in front of them in a row, or are you going to press through this bill with the coalition's votes like this one?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U348	Thank you. No, we're definitely not going to withdraw the bill. I understand that you are thinking of a bill that would give certain tax incentives to large consumers. You see, the more we have large consumers, the less network charges are for all consumers. I think that our problem is, in fact, that we have few large consumers. If we had more large consumers, we would have significantly more favourable network charges for ordinary consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U349	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue on the subject on which my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, started. However, there was no specific answer from you. I'll be more specific. Currently, the price of district heating in Narva is nearly 40 euros per megawatt-hour. You have promised that this bill will prevent a warm appreciation in Narva or, as you said, it will keep it under control. Eesti Energia will not confirm and assess the impact of the support rather modestly. As the author of this proposal, please state specifically how many euros per megawatt-hour in Narva, subsidising the burning of wood will affect the price of Narva's heating. In fact! If other prices did not change, how much would this bill reduce the price of heating in Narva? Give me a specific number!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U351	Thank you. This bill would ensure that the price of heating in Narva does not increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U352	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U353	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You've mentioned the waste hierarchy a few times now, but we don't have that yet. Of course, you can tell us what schedule we're going to get. Well, right now, they're also burning stemwood at stations. This is currently being done and consumption of energy wood should increase by 15% if this draft is adopted. How do you conclude that logging pressure cannot grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U354	Thank you. I do not believe in your claim that stemwood, high-quality stemwood, is being burned in power plants. This is simply not possible in terms of price. It would be detrimental to any station owner. If there are strains there, then, and they can really be, then you have to look at what the strains are. If there's a few centimeters of wood around [the core] and the inside is rotten, there's nothing else to do with it. In addition, there are types of wood that cannot actually be used elsewhere but for heating. So once again, the burning of quality wood is an economically uneconomical activity. That is even if we apply this EUR 10 grant per megawatt-hour. So it certainly does not bring with it that more forests in Estonia will be cut down and sent to boilers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U355	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U356	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you something else. Indeed, we have three types of plants: new, adjustable power plants, existing production equipment, which, I understand, is currently being debated here, and new non-regulatory plants. In the case of new regulatory units, the aid shall be EUR 50 and EUR 30 for new non-regulatory plants. Are they not subject to a higher level of stock exchange prices? With regard to the old power stations, it is clear: as you said, EUR 10 and EUR 60. The refund may not exceed EUR 10 and the ceiling shall be EUR 60.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U357	New unregulated production capacities actually participate in less bids. This is the support scheme for renewable energy plants today. We used to have fixed support, as I said, EUR 53.7 per megawatt-hour. This scheme ended at the beginning of this year. Now there are only fewer offers. And earlier it was fixed that this support would be available to stations for 12 years. Fortunately, this direct dose is now over and we are starting to get this full 12 years for these plants, which means that the amount of aid in the budget, in the form of renewable energy charges, which are being collected, is starting to decrease. So here's the assumption that the renewable energy charges paid by consumers in Estonia will start to decrease in the future. Minor offers have so far been very successful. And the reason is that technology has actually developed so much that it is practically market-based that renewable energy can already be produced. However, yes, as I said, we also need controlled energy sources, purely for energy security.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U358	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I might not go deep into the content, I am relatively familiar with this bill and myself the leading manager of it. But what I would like to know is that to what extent could it be said that this bill is like a coalition? Coalitions have changed in the meantime and it has come from the previous coalition. Just like, I don't know, 2% of the cost of defense stuff, you see, they keep it all the time. But it hasn't really been like that. This draft was long closed, partly with regard to the European Commission, but I understand that your partner did not agree very much to some extent either. And now here in the Riigikogu there are rumors that you have made some kind of trade. On Wednesday, the law on electronic communications is scheduled, it was closed for a long time, and now, on the one hand, it was opened. On the other hand, for this example, the specific draft that we are currently dealing with. Can you make a comment? Did you make any deals, swapping things? Or what's the reason that the barrier finally came from behind? Of course, it's nice for him to come out from behind the barrier. Maybe you can comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U360	Thank you. I assure you that I have not been involved in making any kind of agreement in relation to the combined effect of these two laws or in the interests of their future procedure. I have only dealt with this specific draft, negotiated to reach an agreement with the coalition partner so that this draft can be moved forward. Today I am here, we have reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U361	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U362	Thank you, good minister! My question is the continuation of my previous question. You are saying that there will be no higher electricity bill for consumers. I don't know about you guys, but I'll be at home paying our electricity bills and I'll see what's on it. There's not only electricity, but there's all kinds of lines. One is the price of renewable energy, and it is not at all low. Of course, it must be large and I am willing to pay if it is spent reasonably on these new additional renewable energy sites. But we're burning wood, and we can't get heat from some of the plants, we're just burning wood like at Auvere Station and the Baltic Power Plant. In Narva's case, okay, that's where the city gets some kind of heat. Why are we dealing with such an ineffective matter and increasing consumers' electricity bills?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U363	Thank you. No, we are not increasing the electricity bill for consumers, on the contrary, we are doing everything we can to ensure that their electricity bills are smaller. If we manage to use energy to produce material that is not subject to additional CO2 quota charges, then it will certainly make electricity or energy to the consumer, so it will be electricity, it will be cheaper to heat.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U364	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. When we had our first reading, you talked about the fact that wood burning will only be subsidised in the Baltic Power Plant cogeneration unit in order to keep Narva heating cheaper. Riigikogu finished first reading, we went on with the bill. And then the Ministry you run started applying for a state aid permit for a scheme that could be used to burn timber at Auvere Station and the Baltic Power Plant without producing heat. After all, this will potentially increase both the renewable energy fee and the amount of wood burned up to four times, compared to what you had promised us in the past. Can you explain the right you, contrary to what was decided here in the Riigikogu, to apply arbitrarily for a state permit on matters other than what we had said here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U366	Thank you. In this instance, you must turn to the European Commission, because it was a request from the European Commission to have more of these potential players. This was not our proposal, it was one of the conditions for the European Commission's authorisation of state aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U367	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U368	Thank you, good manager. First of all, for the sake of the verbatim report, I note that the Minister was wrong to answer my previous question, confirming that some timber is something that can only be burned, there is no other use. In fact, there is always an alternative that this wood is someone's home in the forest. But I'm going to ask you a question Ivar Padari asked. I understand the hour is late and it was complicated mathematics. But the problem is that we actually have real-time electricity stock exchange prices, and so on. Why aren't we using hourly accounting to pay the grant? When we took the arithmetic mean of last month's prices, there were hours where more than EUR 60 per megawatt-hour came, there was this price of electricity on the stock market, and there were hours where there was less than that. There's definitely a risk of over-compensation. If we can use real-time data, why do we base the arithmetic mean of the previous month and risk overcompensation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U369	Thank you. As you said yourself, there were also hours where the figure was over 60. In fact, it also takes into account the fact that electricity prices have been higher in the meantime, and I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U370	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U371	Thank you, Minister. In June, the reason for the great rush of the coalition was the concern about the price of heating in Narva. At the same time, MKM also stated that the real solution is not to support further burning of oil shale by adding wood to it, but to a modern and efficient co-generation plant in Narva. The money is provided for by the Fair Transfer Fund. It has now been three months, but there is no measure, no competition or anything tangible to really go on. It looks like the Ministry is taking a nap. On what date is Narva's new boiler house bidding round coming? I'm asking you not to be in a situation where the quota is expensive again in five years' time, oil shale is loss-making, but the city needs to be heated. On what date is Narva's new boiler house bidding round coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U372	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have no answer to that question. I can't answer that. This depends very much on how the processes are going in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U373	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! In your introduction, you mentioned that the two most important changes are, in fact, I understand, the transition from EUR 15 to EUR 10 in terms of support and from three to two years, this is a period that we can define. Why don't you say a few words about what made me realize that the parties, or coalition partners, were negotiating that way? I would point out that it was 15 euros before. Basically, we would have paid today's forest owners EUR 15 for low-value timber. And you could say that we're actually taking this number down even further. What's the reason? Looking at what is, let's say, the price of such high-quality timber on the market today, it's over 15, on the paperwood 17.9 to 22 and so on, on the pinewood 41 even. Why would the 15 make it any lower? Explain to the great hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U375	Thank you. It was, unfortunately, the same discussion that has been in this great hall today: there is a fear that valuable wood will be burned. Therefore, this aid was also brought down, as the rate of this aid finally shows at what price it is possible to store biomass or wood chips. It is necessary to provide the partner with the assurance that the rate of this support will not in any way encourage the burning of valuable wood in kilns. This was also the reason why we agreed that we would bring these rates up to the top to make sure that good timber would not be burned. If we look at these prices today and we also look at how the price of timber has risen in parallel with this process in time, then there can be no mention that it is economically sensible to start burning wood used in another way. Here too, life has moved in a more favorable direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U376	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U377	Thank you. First of all, I'm gonna clear up some false information you gave me. The effect of this support on the price of electricity is approximately zero. It will not rise, it will not fall, its effect will be round zero on the price of electricity in Estonia, given these volumes and Nord Pool's stock market logic. True, this may slightly improve the economic performance of Eesti Energia, but it has no effect on electricity prices beyond the negative impact, i.e. the increase in the price of renewable energy, as Mr Tõud rightly pointed out. But my question concerns § 113 of the Constitution, which does not really allow the government to impose the amount of the renewable energy charge. And this is now about what you promised at first reading: that the Riigikogu can decide on a yearly basis, which are the renewable energy targets for which these fewer offers will be made, to what extent. It's been abandoned now. Only the 2030 target is set out in this draft, which means that in principle, in the meantime, the government can exponentially increase the renewable energy fee without any restrictions. Why have you moved to an anti-constitutional scheme like this and removed this decision from the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U378	Thank you. The government certainly does not want to start increasing the price of renewable energy. On the contrary, we have moved to a new support scheme aimed precisely at contributing to the reduction of the renewable energy fee in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U379	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U380	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I actually have a request. I'd like to continue with Sven Sester's question a little bit, but maybe you can open up a little more. This 60-euro ceiling has been placed on the stock market price. Where did this ceiling come from? Why 60 euros? Why not, for example, 50 or 70 euros? Today, electricity is really more expensive, and I think it might still be better to protect our foresters, so that the ceiling would be more than 70 euros. Where did that 60 euros come from? How did you get to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U381	Thank you. The purpose of this ceiling is still to avoid overcompensation. There was also a fear that there might be overcompensation. That is why this limit has been set, and indeed we have agreed that this is the limit. In the past, the agreement was also at a higher rate of support; unfortunately, in order to move forward with the draft, we had to agree on a lower rate of support. The rates of such grants can always be agreed upon. There's no such iron market logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U382	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U383	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You replied to my previous question that logging pressure in Estonian forests does not increase according to this draft decision, despite the fact that the use of energy wood should actually increase by 15%. Here's what I'm gonna ask. In fact, the cutting volume must be reduced to a sustainable level. What do you think is this sustainable level or how much should this amount be? You see, Jüri Ratas is nodding with me, and he'd like to know, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U384	Thank you. Yeah, well, that's kind of a longer discussion, which is a sustainable level. There are two possible scenarios. I know that research has been carried out and it has been found that, in fact, if only CO2 sequestration capacity is taken into account, the average felling volume of recent years is the best balance point. But one problem is, in fact, that the age of Estonian forests is such that our felling volume should actually be somewhat higher. This is purely due to the age of forests: when the forest started to grow, when the forest started to grow more in Estonia. We all know how it's come about. At the beginning of the Soviet rule, very many fields remained fed, where the forest began to grow. If we now look at the difference in time when it all happened, it is unfortunate that the very large forest masses have just arrived today in such a way that if we want to get wood that can be deserved so that it lasts longer, we should actually cut more of this forest today. If we come back to CO2, the ability to link it, then really, the average level of recent years is where we can manage our forest to the maximum extent that its CO2 capture capacity is maximum. But there are scissors between these two things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U385	Minister, I do not see any further questions at the moment. Thank you. I would now like to ask Sven Sester, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, for the speech of the Riigikogu. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was really launched on 9 March 2020, so it's quite a long one. I'll give you an overview of what happened between the first and second readings. The first reading took place on 6 May. The deadline for amendments was 20 May. By then, four amendments were received, all from the Social Democratic Party Group. No other amendments were received, so there were four from the Riigikogu. However, the Commission was actually addressed with various proposals during this procedure by the various institutions which really made proposals to amend and supplement the regulation of this draft. Perhaps it would be good to mention who approached us: AS Estonian Cell, Eesti Taastuvenergia Koda, Eesti Energia, Competition Authority, OÜ Energy Production, Estonian Power Plants and District heating Association, Rande Agro OÜ, Estonian Solar Power Association, Estonian Nature Foundation, Estonian Green Movement. Some of them addressed our committee repeatedly and in more than one letter. We had this topic on several occasions in the Commission. The representative of the initiator of the draft act answered essentially all the questions and possible proposals. So it was always possible for the members of the Commission to be familiar with the thoughts of potential market participants on the one hand, but also with the reflection of the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, on one or the other. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications submitted to the Commission twice, in the spring of last year and in the spring of this year, its proposals for amending the draft, some of which had already been formulated by the representative of the initiator of the draft, as a result of the compromises that took place in the course of the discussions during the preparation of the draft. All these different opinions and suggestions can be seen beautifully on our draft map. But, yeah, it's a long-time bill. If you look at the Commission's meetings, there was more than one between the first and second readings. I'll go through it quickly, too. After our first reading, we met on June 2. Let me remind you that 20 May was the deadline for the amendments, so I am talking about 2020. On 2 June, the Committee on Economic Affairs met, and then we had such a huge hearing of amendments and opinions with interest groups. We didn't make any decisions there. But I'm not going to list everything here. Without exaggeration: everyone who was in any way affected by this bill in the form of various companies, lawyers and, of course, the Ministry was at the table. There were a great many people who were all more or less affected by this bill. We all went through the opinion by opinion. The initiator of the draft act made its comments and this [information] was available to both the members of the Commission and market participants. There was a separate agenda for discussion at this session, according to which we moved. Indeed, everyone could ask, not only the members of the Commission, but also the market participants. However, as I mentioned, we did not make any procedural decisions in this sitting, and we stated that this was a good basis for taking any further steps if we wanted to improve this draft. On June 8, this year... In the meantime, the draft went not on summer leave, but went to the stage where the European Commission was expected to grant an exemption, which eventually came. And on 8 June, a meeting of the Commission was held in which procedural decisions were taken on referral to plenary, as information had been received from the initiator's representative that compromises had been found for further processing of the draft. That's what I asked you about today. But on the basis of these compromises, we began to formulate amendments and, at a later meeting, we have already voted on these amendments. But at this meeting on 8 June, we took certain procedural decisions. Next, the third meeting of the Economic Commission was on 11 June, a few days later. This was an extraordinary session in which the Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Aas, and the Head of Energy Markets at MKM, Rein Vaks, as representatives of the initiators, also presented us with possible changes and answered the questions of the Members of the Commission. There was a longer debate. At this meeting, too, we did not vote, but we took another time to understand what the content of one or the other amendment was. And then finally, on 14 June, at the fourth Commission meeting between first and second reading, there was a vote. The amendments have been distributed, distributed, distributed to all of us, with a total of 15 amendments. As I mentioned, four of them are from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the rest are on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs. For the sake of accuracy, I also say that the order is that, from the first to the third, the sixth, the seventh and the 10th to the 15th are the proposals of the lead committee and the proposals of the Social Democratic Party are the fourth, the fifth, the eighth and the ninth. The amendments may be discussed separately, but in conclusion, as the Minister has stated here, a number of amendments have been made. This is also evident in these amendments. Perhaps the major changes relate to going from three to two years and going from 15 to 10 euros in the support scheme. But also, for example, the subject that we discussed earlier and which was also asked about earlier: in these years, in the case of possible renewable energy targets, there are [questions] how to position it, who should do it, it is the government or Parliament, whether to do it as intermediate stages or not. There are also amendments to them, and the draft has still changed considerably in this respect compared to the draft that came from the government at one point, i.e. in 2020. In conclusion, it could be said that the Committee on Economic Affairs finally came to decisions. And these decisions were such... Well, they're old today, of course, but I'll mention it for the sake of regularity. I proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading. At that point it was best to know that it would be June 16. It was stated that the second reading could end, and it was assumed that, when the second reading ended on 16 June, the third reading and the final vote would be a day later, on 17 June. These decisions were consensual. Now these dates have changed, and today we are at this table because the board has brought a new date to our table. That's all I have to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U387	Thank you very much for this very thorough presentation. You have at least one question. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U388	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! How do you feel about the procedure for this draft, where even after the authorisation of State aid, nothing happened with the draft within six months, and then in the last week's urgency, the coalition put its roller to work and introduced very fundamental changes, to which the parties could not react, to make comments? Is this about good legislative practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U389	Thank you for that question. Well, at the end of the day, it's not always the process that matters as much as the result, the outcome. I'm saying we could divide this bill into two phases. I think we certainly cannot say that this draft has been under the urgent procedure. As I mentioned earlier, the first phase began on 9 March 2020. For various reasons, time has been taken off. I think that at this first stage, I also pointed out to you, there were very thorough discussions, very different market participants were at the table, they were able to give their opinion. They were also able to listen to the Ministry's counter-opinions and the members of the Commission were also actively involved at this meeting. A very large meeting was held on June 2, last year. I think all the market participants felt that this was the place where they could give their opinion. True story, after that, as you rightly mentioned, there was a situation where the state of Estonia, or more specifically, the MKM turned to the European Commission as the representative of the Estonian state. And at the end of last year, if I'm not mistaken, it was the moment when they actually got permission. And as you know, this process would most likely have moved faster. It would probably have happened, I think, if we were to negotiate with some market participants, but at the beginning of January the coalition changed, and after that, it went a long way. I have asked myself several times in the Committee on Economic Affairs how far this draft procedure is going. In such cases, the chairman of the committee still holds the pen, and the chairman of the committee stated that the negotiations had not reached this stage in order to proceed with it. And it can be said that your question as to the fact that this end came quickly, I have to say that it came surprisingly unexpectedly. By the end of the day, I'll tell you, of course, we have different positions here. I must admit that in your vision, it makes sense not to adopt this bill, I think it is reasonable to adopt it. Here we certainly have different positions, and that is what I also say in the context of this result. But certainly, as Heiki Hepner pointed out in the round of questions, we too found a surprising transition from EUR 15 to EUR 10 and from three to two years. Earlier knowledge or desire was different, but today we are in the situation where we are. It has to be said that, after the coalition partners had agreed with each other in June, no further information was exchanged with market participants, according to my data. I may be wrong, but it's been faster since then.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U390	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Thank you very much. Before we go to the amendments, all of us, indeed all of us, I would stress that it is possible to open negotiations at second reading. And not only open, but also hold them, tell your views and positions out here. I will open negotiations and ask for the first speech chair of the Riigikogu, Eduard Odinets. And everyone else, please sign up boldly and bravely. Please, Mr. Odines!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was a very motivating and very encouraging appeal, and I immediately seized it, although I cannot be blamed for being the greatest expert on the subject. But there were still a few thoughts during the review that Sven made and what the Minister told us. I say frankly, I am quite surprised to see how my colleagues and I have prepared very well and have asked very specific and clear questions, but what answers the Minister gave are unclear and unspecific. I'm surprised! There can be two options, either stupid and wrong questions or the minister does not have the heart to tell us the whole truth. How does it feel when we vote on the amendments... Electricity prices change, renewable energy charges change, pressure on cutting changes. The only thing that doesn't change is the price of heating Narva. And then there's this feeling about why we're doing all this. And I asked the Minister in particular what my constituents are asking for from Ida-Viru County: how much cheaper the price of heating would be under this bill, and the minister replied that it would not be cheaper. It's the same, it's not gonna get any higher. Well, that's good. It seems to me that, as the Commission representative mentioned in answering the last questions here, the procedure for the draft was not very normal, it was rather strange. It seems that today's discussion and answers to our questions are just as strange and not very common. That's too bad! We wanted to understand this issue very thoroughly, we also made a lot of amendments, which I hope will be voted on and hope will be welcomed by the Chamber. But the minister just says one-phrase answers, doesn't answer our questions. This was an answer to the call made by the President of the Riigikogu that he could also make complaints. And that's what I'm doing here. I hope that the next time we meet Minister Asa, his answers will be substantially more substantive and will give members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to understand the subject. And most importantly, we get the chance to understand the purpose of why we do this and what is really changing in people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U392	Thank you very much. And now I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Heiki Hepner. And once again, I ask everyone to implement § 156 (5), to use it diligently.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U393	Thank you and thank you for encouraging me to come here! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna take this opportunity to open up some forestry for you. At the outset, the forest owners really welcome this bill. The expectation was perhaps only that the rate of support would have been slightly higher. But I would point out that there are more than 100000 forest owners in Estonia, and if such a target group feels that the draft is appropriate or most of it is appropriate, I think it is worth taking this into account in the vote today. Now a little bit of whether it's possible to drive the log into the oven. Well, of course it is theoretically, but economically it would be stupid. I haven't been able to meet such a stupid forest owner, but I can't say that they might not be there at all. But it would be an exceptionally stupid act purely economically, the owner would be angry at his property. I will also bring some concrete indicators as of this year, the 2021 semester. We are talking about stump money, or the prices of a growing forest. Such a minimum price for firewood was EUR 0,9 per cubic metre; in the case of firewood, seven times more would have been made; in the case of wood of coniferous wood, 11 to 12 times more, in the case of circa 20 times more, in the case of wood of birch paper, in the case of pine logs, which was indeed, I must say, abnormally high price, 90 times more and in the case of birchwood, circa 100 times more. Tell me who would be so angry with his property that he would sell log wood or paper wood just to drive the oven. This is certainly a sensible draft in this context. Now, does this law put more pressure on you to chop? No pressure. It actually came out of prices. As a rule, firewood does not grow or cut extra, as its economic benefits are the least. True, we have grey sheets with which not much else can be done and from which 80 to 90% of the future is firewood. Sometimes there may be 100% firewood, because if you get one or two logs, you have nothing to do with it, and you don't sell it to paper wood. This may also mean that sometimes you really have almost 100% firewood out of all the felling, but most of the time you don't. Similarly, I will give you an example: only fillets can be produced in pig farming. It is not possible to grow only logs in the forest either; it is usually accompanied by firewood. Tell me why we should punish the owners of the forest by giving it away for free so that the people of the city can get a roommaker at a lower price. I don't understand that logic. I don't understand that logic! If we have a market economy, these rules should apply. And once we have agreed on renewable energy, indeed, wood is, in many respects, a very reasonable source of renewable energy. Now, to sum up this whole issue and look at this bill from this perspective, I say that this bill is quite sensible and good. It could always be better, but I call on you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U394	Thank you very much. I now ask Riina Sikkut to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U395	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, from Heiki, a very, very good speech with strong energy. Couple of details. Heiki spoke about the market economy. Yes, if it makes sense economically, one, two or three can be done, but right now we are still talking about subsidization. Why do we have to pay in Auvere and elsewhere to burn wood? After all, this is not a market economy. And second, it's about felling pressure. We're not just chopping branches. If we allow wood to be burned in all boilers for industrial energy production, this will increase logging pressure. Similarly, if we increase the demand for pig ears, it still means that we need to bring more pigs to the slaughterhouse. We can't just take the branches to the boiler house. But what I wanted to talk about was big goals and political choices moving towards them. The development plan in the field of education was already discussed in depth today. The development plan should have a cross-cuttingly agreed target, as well as objectives that will be tried to be achieved over the coming years. Undoubtedly, there are several different paths that can move towards one goal. Political choices are made, these choices are fixed in a coalition agreement. And so it should be in energy. At the same time, the Estonian government has supported the shelve. The coalition agreement states that oil shale exits and also that cutting pressure is not increased. And yet we are discussing a draft that does not contribute to the implementation of what was agreed in the Coalition Agreement or to the achievement of the objectives set out in the Green Revolution between Estonia and the European Union. How can it be that sectoral objectives, national targets, objectives agreed at European Union level speak one thing, but our decisions speak another language? In fact, especially given that the aim of the green turn is so ambitious, we must not take steps in the opposite direction. Everything that we are changing in our legal space should help to achieve these great goals. This also concerns Estonian energy, how we use our very valuable resource, or timber. And indeed, as Kalvi Tõvi pointed out with his question, when we look at the electricity bill, we see [we see] what the current price of electricity is doing, the burden we place on consumers with the payment of renewable energy, we see an increase in inequality. And actually, we also see that there are other places in which the state should direct its money, not to subsidise this type of environmentally harmful activity. So I would also like to ask in this Chamber: let us, however, take into account the great sectoral objectives and act in such a way that every step brings us closer to the objective. Mr Odines actually mentioned the procedure that took place. The fact that, after the first reading, very important changes are really introduced without having a substantive debate is not a good practice. And in today's second reading, we did not actually get answers from the Minister. Of course, the understandable late hour, there are many numbers in the bill, this is a technically difficult issue. But such decisions cannot be made in such a way that there are no clear answers to questions from the Minister's mouth. These were relevant questions, these were substantive questions: what about the price of Narva's energy, the pressure to cut, the electricity bills of people. There's no such dark ground. These are the things that really need to be answered from this remote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U396	Thank you very much. I now ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U397	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. This is a bad draft, a very bad draft, which should have ended at first reading. Because it didn't happen, it has to be done today. And that has to be done for three reasons. This bill is bad for the consumer, it is harmful for the consumer, it is bad for the environment and it is legally a failure. And I'll tell you more about these three facts in these eight minutes. Firstly, this bill is bad for the consumer. It's bad because it increases people's electricity bill. At this point in time, where the exchange price for electricity is so high, it is, frankly, crazy when the government union comes here with additional electricity taxes. Well, I don't know what the world is! Of course, we were originally told that the effect of this change on the renewable energy charge could be 6 to 7 million, which is about a 10% increase in the renewable energy charge. But in the meantime, in the meantime, I'm about to get to that legal cull, the brakes have been cut off. We are no longer talking about 500 gigawatt-hours, but potentially up to two terawatt-hours of electricity per year, which will also increase the renewable energy fee up to four times. Perhaps instead of the same amount of seven to eight million, we are already talking about almost 30 million euros, which potentially means an increase of one quarter or a third of the renewable energy fee. This is the negative side. Well, maybe something like that could help. The Minister doesn't know the field very well. He said that because of this, the price of electricity will fall or the effect on the price of electricity will be zero, round zero. Anyone who knows a little about how the electricity market works will understand that. Too bad the Minister can't. The price of electricity doesn't fall. Of course we subsidize Narva Power Plants. The explanatory note says that some boiler hunters will stay in work longer because of this. Well, it's very expensive to keep five hundred boiler hunters on the payroll! I think that they themselves would prefer to simply be paid EUR 6200 instead of doing what is being done now. The only substantive argument on the consumer's side is that narvas must be helped in the context of the price of heating. To be honest, I should have done that five years ago. For at least five years, this dance has been going on, I know it for five years, so I can get the trees in Narva into a subsidised oven. Instead, a cogeneration plant would have been ready and operational long ago and would not have these problems. Then it was said that we did not believe that the price of the quota would increase so much. Congratulations on not believing that the quota price will rise so much! For everyone who knew the subject, it was clear that this would happen. If I'd known I'd fall here, I'd have put the hay down! Now we knew, but we didn't. Now it's said that what to do then was made mistakes in the past, but right now we have to help the narvas. But the Minister can't, the Ministry can't tell us how much this subsidy really has to do with the price of heating in Narva. And behind the curtain, specialists at the heating company say that the effect is close to zero. As it does not actually prevent future price increases, perhaps some euro. And the Minister couldn't say anything about it today either. So a bad bill for the consumer in any case. Especially with the other cupcakes that have been baked together here, such as the 40% increase in the renewable energy fee for all ordinary consumers and small businesses. A handful of big companies get a discount! This is insane! Now for the environment. This is a very bad decision for the environment. Mr Minister and Mr Hepner, for both of you: if 2 million cubic metres of wood are placed in an additional furnace, then this wood must come from somewhere. There is no possibility that more trees will be burned, but they will not be cut. So where is he? We're lying on the field? No, I'm not. Of course, it is clear that using renewable energy, waste from the wood industry to produce renewable heat in local boiler plants is very sensible. But we can see that the Renewable Energy Directive, within which the same draft belongs, has actually led to perversion. We know that on the other side of Europe, and on the other end of the world, forests are cut open, crushed into granules, transported by ships and set on fire in ineffective coal stations. The same is happening with the Estonian forest. And now we actually want to move in this same direction in this country too. There is one report, the Committee on the Environment has had it translated into Estonian, please read it. This is the report by Europe's best scientists on the use of wood biomass in energy production. 30% of Europe's bioenergy comes from stemwood, not logs. Of course, no one's talking about the log, but the trunkwood is coming. And, as this report says nicely, biodiversity, it is obviously harmful to the environment, too, to producing energy from waste, branches, rooftops. There is still only one third of trees on average, and if you want to significantly increase demand, of course it will increase the volume of felling. Of course, it increases the volume of felling, there is no doubt about that. And it gets more favourable to the owner of the forest, and he naturally gets a stronger incentive to chop up the whole range. Of course, and that is why forest owners support this proposal. I can absolutely understand why it is in their economic interest, but it is certainly not in the interests of the environment. Why isn't he in a good environment yet? 50% of the oil shale is burned with it. So, in fact, kiwi oil shale is subsidised, but it is the most polluting way of producing electricity in the European Union or in our region. And finally, in the original proposal before the second reading, when we were really talking about the cogeneration regime in the 11th block of the Baltic Power Plant, where at least the warm one is being used in Narva, this restriction has now disappeared as a result of arbitrary activities by the Ministry. Basically, the minister may decide to burn wood at Auvere Station and let 60% of energy warm up in the Narva River or in the Baltic Power Plant in the summer if there is no heating load in Narva. It's insane to do such a thing. The Renewable Energy Directive puts pressure on the entire European research community to give up the possibility of burning massively in large boilers. And we're going to enter in a situation where we already have one of the most dirty energy sectors in the world. Now last and third [factor]: legal failure. The legal error is expressed in several points. In the course of the procedure, it has already been possible to talk quite thoroughly about this arithmetical average of compensation for the price of electricity, which does not rule out over-compensation. And the law doesn't have those options. I'd only talk about two more things, because there's just no more time. The first is indeed the State aid authorisation. It was directly lied to Parliament that this scheme would ask for authorisation of State aid for the heating of Narva in cogeneration mode. All rhetoric was directed at it last summer when the first reading was held. And immediately after that, on 30 June, the Estonian state went to the European Commission to apply for authorisation not to subsidise Narva cogeneration but to all Narva plants, including Auvere, without any co-production regime. It was accepted by the European Commission and now it is said, you see, Europe is calling for it. Europe does not demand, in fact, that we ourselves made this request as such without any mandate or right. As a result, in fact, this scope expands significantly, where it is possible to drive trees into the oven. As a result, renewable energy prices and felling volumes will increase in the same way. And the last question, which in essence could not be dealt with, but which is extremely important and which is covered by § 113 of the Constitution. This concerns the right of the Ministry to decide on the amount of the renewable energy charge, on the basis of the Minister's discretion or on the basis of the government's discretion. It is certainly unconstitutional, as has the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu. And that is also a compelling reason to interrupt the procedure for this draft today at second reading. In fact, we could stop dealing with this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U398	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U399	Thank you. I would take this opportunity, since I was mentioned, to say some objections. In fact, I would like to highlight how much wood we actually have in our forests is dead. In 2008, there were 29,6 million cubic metres of dead timber, 38.6 million cubic metres in 2018, including 31,7 million cubic metres in economic forests. And if we take the gray ones, right now we have roughly 30 million cubic metres of gray ones, most of which are ripe. Sixty years ago, it was 15 times less. And now to tell you that we're running out of wood, or that our biodiversity is being damaged, it's just incompetent. Actually, it's not like that. But, of course, a modern CHP plant would be very relevant, and I would prefer it if it were. And obviously, the wood is carbon neutral, but the Russian gas or our oil shale is not. This is where the gaps come from.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U400	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U401	Thank you. Since my position was mentioned, I... Of course you said stupid talk for me. I thank you for your assessment. I didn't talk about the wood running out in the woods. Of course he won't run out. I spoke from the same scientific report that the impact of burning stemwood on biodiversity is negative because it is accompanied by cuttings. And speaking of climate neutrality, the question is calculated, climate neutrality comes only from the moment of combustion. At the same time, while replacing fossil fuels with wood, real emissions into the atmosphere are increasing, as the energy density and characteristics of wood are such. So let's talk about this somehow naturally as a solution to the climate crisis, if we increase the cutting and as a result we switch from biomass to electricity production, that is not really the case. This is not the case globally and it is not the case in Estonia either. The question, of course, is appropriate. It makes sense, of course, to take advantage of the existing residues in the local timber industry, but here we are talking about a completely different level in this process, such industrial mass burning. That's what we're against. However, as regards the issue of the 2030 targets, which are in this draft, it basically allows the Minister to give him a mandate with this draft, a lot more offers than has been the case so far. As a result, the Riigikogu actually grants it the right granted by the Constitution only to the Riigikogu pursuant to § 113, if it is supported today. This is the right to design public charges, including renewable energy charges. That shouldn't be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U402	Thank you. There are no further requests or speeches. The negotiations are closed. We are going to examine the 156 amendments to the draft. The first is by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Jevgeni Ossinovski, is it procedural?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U403	It's a procedure, isn't it? Well, what has happened now, Mr President, is that we need to look at this text once before we go to this table. We have happened to Amendment 14 in the table of amendments, so at least what I have, maybe you have another, then say, if I read wrong, but Amendment 14 I have to read this way: 'Add to paragraph 1 (15) of the draft in the following wording...' and then there is point 16 that is added to § 108. I will now look at the text of the bill. Mr President, this amendment has been taken fully into account and it has been incorporated into the text, so I will look at the substance of this draft, which is on page 4, the penultimate paragraph. The same text is not a point 16, but a point 15. There is now a situation where there is a change to the table of amendments, which has been moved differently to the text.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U404	I mean, let's get slices. First of all, you had the question whether I had a similar amendment to Amendment 14 as you do. Answer: Yes, it is. Yes, it is! I understand that your argument is that Amendment 14 refers to point 16 and paragraph 108 (9), and you say that in the main text this point is 15. Yeah? A microphone for Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U405	Yeah, that's how I've identified it. The problem with state law is, of course, that if the large Chamber of the Riigikogu supports Amendment 14, it goes under item 16, but it cannot go under item 16, because there is already point 16 under item 16 and then it somehow stays in the air without knowing where it is going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U406	Yeah, well, that's not the law. Let's solve this right now, so I'm taking the chairman's break three minutes. Break three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U407	Ladies and gentlemen, I will extend the President's break for five minutes to find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U408	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the manager is over and the situation will be clarified. We have the vote on the amendments and the question arose in the wording of Amendment 14. And the explanation is that when we arrive at Amendment 14 and the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu decides to support it, between second and third readings, when it turns out that some sort of numbering need to be specified, [this is done]. That is the difference between the second and third readings in order to override the numbering and compare what this great hall decides at second reading. Mr. Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U409	I thank you for your pure constructiveness! Of course, in this situation [other] could be required because the materials do not actually meet the requirements. The list of amendments and the text of the draft text proposed are not in line, and if we vote in Amendment 14, we will have two different items of 16 in this draft, which are essentially nonsense. I understand that this is a human mistake, and I am not going to cause any more problems here, but I hope that we will be more attentive in future on such matters, because in Parliament, the procedure is one of the most important fundamental principles of the work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U410	It's settled. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, was fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 2, Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 3, the Committee on Economic Affairs has taken full account of this. Mr. Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U411	The Social Democratic Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U412	So let me make it clear, is this the third amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U413	Third-third.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U414	Got it. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose Amendment 3. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U415	39 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, with 11 against. The proposal was supported. Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission. Mr. Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U416	Thank you. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I would like to ask for the fourth amendment to be voted and we do not accept the suggestion of the President of the Riigikogu to take a break, so we do not ask for a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U417	I didn't understand exactly how the President of the Riigikogu made such a proposal, but... Oh, did he? I'm sorry! I believe we can go to the vote. We have already entered the rhythm of the vote nicely, so I shall vote on Amendment 4. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U418	The proposal was supported by 11; 40 were opposed; the proposal was not supported. Amendment 5, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission. Mr. Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U419	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U420	Let's vote! Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote before you Amendment No... Let me ask you this, just in case, do you agree that we are going to the vote? Nice! Then I shall put to the vote before you Amendment 5. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U421	Amendment 11 was supported, 40 was opposed, and the proposal was not supported. Amendment 6, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. Mr. Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U422	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U423	Got it! Do you agree that we are going to the vote? No objections. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote before you Amendment 6, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has taken full account of the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U424	The proposal was supported by 40 members of the Riigikogu; 11 were opposed; the proposal was supported. Amendment 7, tabled by the lead committee, fully taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U425	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U426	Dear Riigikogu, I put to the vote before you Amendment 7, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U427	The proposal was supported by 40 and 11; the proposal was supported. Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission. Mr. Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U428	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U429	That's it! Dear Riigikogu, please take a position on Amendment 8. Submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has neglected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U430	The proposal was supported by 12; 38 were opposed; the proposal was not supported. Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the commission. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U431	We are also asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U432	Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to take a position on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the lead committee, have been disregarded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U433	The proposal was supported by 11; 40 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 10, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 11, tabled by the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 12, tabled by the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 13, from the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 14, from the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 15, from the lead committee, fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft 156 be completed. With this we have... Oh, I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I've got a piece of paper on my left hand, surprisingly. A paper has appeared which says that the Group of the Social Democratic Party proposes that the draft electricity market law initiated by the Government of the Republic be suspended at second reading. And that's what we have to vote through. Mr Sester from the Isamaa Group asked to wait. Mr. Sester, is there any hope that we can go to the vote? Can we go? Got it! Thank you. I will put to the vote before you a proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to interrupt draft 156 at second reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U434	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your excitement, but I must admit that there were 11 members of the Riigikogu in favour, against 40. The proposal for interruption was not supported. That concludes the second reading on Bill 156.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U435	And now, surprise-surprise, we all have a chance to come and talk in a free microphone. Anyone who wishes to speak in a free microphone, please register after the hammer hit. First, please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U436	Let's get back to electricity. The average exchange price for electricity in the Estonian price area is 134.99 euros today. And it's a new record. Never before has the average reached this high in this area. And now it's still summer, warm, white enough. Each cent of the increase in the price of electricity reduces the well-being of our people. In our industrial world, man cannot live without electricity, no light, no heat, no refrigerator, no washing machine, etc. Not to mention industry. If we want work and bread to continue in this country, we cannot afford constantly rising energy prices. In the end, the energy.. it's just butter and bread. Because butter and bread don't appear on the table in a magical way. Their production, their transportation, their sale needs energy. The exchange price of Estonian electricity is significantly higher than in Finland. This means that our country, within the existing framework, has not been able to adequately protect its citizens and businesses, consumers. Perhaps our Competition Authority has simply not done enough to monitor the level and use of network charges. Of course, these errors need to be corrected and, of course, we must not think about lifting the electric excise duty. This will reduce the well-being of our people. But what is the point of our country if we are unable to provide our inhabitants with a reasonable quality of life? The price of electricity, which rises by 40% per year, is not normal. However, since the price of electricity in Finland is lower than in Estonia, we must not be allowed to fall asleep: we will cancel the increase in excise duty, we will have a few round tables on nuclear energy and we think that everything will be all right. No, I'm not! In fact, electricity prices are rising everywhere in Europe and for the same reasons. A natural monopoly such as giving energy into private hands is one of the main causes of price increases. Even traditional liberal economics has for more than 100 years accepted the fact that the granting of areas of natural monopoly to the market simply leads to price increases and a deterioration in quality. This has happened to electricity in Estonia and throughout Europe. Natural monopoly, private property, high prices. Another reason is the fact that without fossil fuels, we cannot sustain our industrial welfare society now and for a long time. Yeah, fossil fuels pollute, yeah, that's a problem. But this is a technical problem, not an economic problem, and solving the technical problem in a way "we are handing it to market forces, the market will solve it itself" has brought us absurdly high CO2 quota prices, high electricity prices, but the question of climate warming or the issue of nature conservation is still unresolved and will remain unresolved in this way. You see, this whole CO2 problem is also a problem of natural monopoly. Air, weather, climate is one. And if we just shift this problem to the market, say, the market itself sets out, we don't have to do anything, then we'll just get the price increase. As we can see at the price of electricity right now. The polluter never pays. The consumer will pay. And so we have left our energy sector in the cold, we have created a situation where, instead of building a competitive new industry with our cheap and independent energy source, we have decided to strangle what we have. Well, if we agree that the competitiveness of our people, our products and services, is our North Star, as it must be in Parliament, the answer is simple: the king is naked. The market has failed, the electricity market, the trading of CO2 quotas, it must be abandoned. Estonia, like all other European countries, must take the distribution of energy production into its own capable hands and do so in the interests of the better well-being of our people and our companies. Of course, in exchange for favourable energy, all need to modernise production processes to the maximum possible extent, so that they are as environmentally friendly as possible, so that CO2 is issued as little as possible. But the establishment of such standards, such supervision, is a technical task and this technical task the state can perform perfectly. Winter is coming. Energy policy needs to be changed, our people's well-being and our livelihoods need to be protected. We bring low electricity prices back to Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U437	Please! And now it's Evgeny Ossinovsky's turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U438	Thank you, Mr President. The previous speaker inspired me. He said the king was naked. Well, I don't know about the king, but the Centre Party is naked about the price of electricity. Indeed, the exchange price for electricity has been high, but it is not possible to love the exchange price only when it is low. That's what we've been doing for the last seven years when we've had cheaper electricity. We have had hours and days where the price of electricity has been close to zero when we have received essentially free hydropower from Norway and Sweden. At the moment, the situation is different, due, of course, to regulatory decisions, not market decisions. And these regulatory decisions, of course, are due to the fact that we are really at risk not of a technical problem, but of an existential problem. Global climate change is the greatest threat to the Estonian state and people in a long perspective. It's the biggest threat. And the fact that we don't respond adequately and at the right time is a crime. We could still do that, and there are really solutions. Indeed, domestic resources could be used much more to produce electricity. The state of Estonia has been languishing in this regard for the last ten years. This resource is the sun and the wind. In fact, Estonia will be able to become climate-neutral in energy production over the next five years, and there is no question at all. This can and should be done. There's been a shortage of... Well, there are dozens of different reasons: though one law is entangled, no less bids have been made, there have been radar questions somewhere. Indeed, these are technical obstacles and the damage that they have not been resolved in time, but this is not a place to say that we are trying to reverse the whole global climate policy and let others make an effort, but we will continue to burn the most polluting fuel. A serious concern, of course, is how Estonian people cope with high electricity prices. And here, unfortunately, the Centre Party is very naked, and I would advise you to talk to my party minister about it. No bill 344. Taavi Aas said he was going to move on with this bill 344. According to the draft, the renewable energy fee for all households will increase by 40%. 40%! Robbery price increase by the Centre Party! Why is this being done in a situation where there is actually an alternative solution that does not burden the consumer and also ensures the competitiveness of large producers? I have talked about this, this solution is technically thought through, it could be implemented. And actually, there is a faster solution, you could say it to Taavi Asa right now: there are plans for large new fewer offers, finally, now, three years later, mostly for wind projects, in the order of 500 gigawatt-hours. Very presumably a pretty big bang on the rise in renewable energy charges. But this increase can be eliminated by subsidising or supporting the creation of these new parks with quota sales revenue. The revenue from quota sales has been received by the Estonian state much better than we have predicted, as the price of the quota has increased. And in this situation, it would actually be very sensible not to put the creation of new wind farms on the consumer's shoulders, but to really protect the Estonian consumer, to offer him a cheaper price for electricity, actually financing these projects from quota sales revenue. Instead of talking about a mist, there's a way to continue the old way. Especially before the elections, they tend to do so, especially by those who run for office. But the real solutions are immediately available and reasonable, workable, and should be implemented. I hope that the previous speaker will speak to his minister about taking these axes away from the head of the Estonian electricity consumer. Now let him breathe a little more calmly in a situation where the stock market price has indeed been very, very high, much higher than he has been over the years. In the longer term, of course, the same system at its higher electricity prices actually favours investment in renewable energy capacity. Estonia alone is not a player here understandably; we are in the Baltic-Nordic electricity market. In fact, years from now, our electricity price will certainly be lower than it has ever been, in most hours it will certainly be close to zero. But in these days, we have to come to the aid of the consumer without doubt. This key is entirely there, and I call upon you to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-13_U439	Ladies and gentlemen, It is a fact that there are no more requests for words in the free microphone, and we have done well in today's sitting. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Have a good night.
