ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U1	Honourable Riigikogu and members of the government! Let's start our weekly briefing, and this time the first briefing of the new government. And as usual, first we'll run a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U2	36 members of the Riigikogu are present, 65 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab and Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik. As always, first the pre-registered questioners get the floor, then they get the opportunity to ask a more specific question, and then there is a round of quick fingers in the hall, where one question can be asked. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U3	The first question is asked by Helle-Moonika Helme and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U4	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am pleased that I can ask the first question of the first Question Hour of the new government about this area, Estonian culture. I hope it's a sign. I am a member of the Estonian National Opera Council, and this one of the most important landmarks of our culture also speaks to me professionally. I have a little problem with that, or I could actually say, a pretty big problem. The construction of a new and modern building for the National Opera was known to be a topic on the table during the previous government. In fact, it has been said for decades, but especially now that the rest of the world is moving away very quickly in this area, I have serious concerns about the subsequent growth of our opera singers and giving them modern innovative working conditions. Here's my question. The previous government gave a relatively clear signal at Prime Minister level that the new building of the Estonian National Opera is one of the priorities of the state in terms of maintaining and promoting our high culture of music. As a new government and your head of government and an educated person, do you understand the special importance of building a new building for our National Opera and do everything in your power to finally get everyone's clear signaling: yes, the new building of the Estonian National Opera will come?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U5	Thank you for that question. It's really weird for me to be on the other side of the table for the first time. But then I'll try to answer that question about the National Opera. I absolutely agree with you that the National Opera building is a cultural facility that is very important for Estonian culture. I know that the Riigikogu's Committee on Culture is currently discussing what are cultural objects of national importance, and the Committee on Culture itself determines how this will proceed. You said, "I quote you," that it was heavily on the table during the previous government. What does that really mean? You said there was a relatively clear signal that this building was coming, but it didn't really cost anything. In my opinion, the Riigikogu Committee on Culture is in the hands of the authorities at the moment, who must decide what are the important cultural objects with which to move forward. And once the Committee on Culture has made this decision, the Government of the Republic can take account of this decision made by the Riigikogu when drafting the state's budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U6	Helle-Moonika Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U7	Thank you. I didn't actually get an answer, but I'd like to get on with the cultural subject a little bit more. On Monday in the Riigikogu, when answering our questions, you failed to define the term "Estonian people" written in our constitution, but you confused something about citizens and patriots. However, the Estonian people are very clearly identifiable, based, among other things, on our history and our centuries-old cultural heritage. Your nameless Kristina Kallas, who represents the same liberal views as you, has said: "Let their pastels and zithers remain for Estonians. " Unlike the priorities of the previous government, where everything that concerned Estonian culture, the demography of our people and its points of pain was very clear, you have abandoned the formulation of all that is written in our constitution. And here's the question. Our constitution clearly defines the preservation of the Estonian people, language and culture throughout the ages as an objective. How do you, as Prime Minister, now intend to stand in the defence of our constitution? And do you agree that Estonia must primarily be the national home of Estonians, because we do not have any of you, and only then will everyone else have the opportunity to live in a dignified place of residence?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U8	Thank you. The Constitution is, of course, the basis for the government's action, and the Constitution is sacred to all of us. We know what the Constitution says. The preservation of Estonian language and culture is a priority for this government just as it has been a priority for all previous governments. I think that we all agree that the preservation of the Estonian language, culture and people is one of the aims of the country. There's no argument about that. It is certainly a question of what we are doing to preserve the Estonian language, culture and people and what we can do. I think it is also possible to raise the population, given that there are people of other nationalities who wish to be part of this society, take the necessary exams, are Estonian citizens, learn our language. I'm gonna have this categorization that you always want to do on Monday and you want to continue to have the right and the wrong people, don't like it. I think there are 1.3 million of us here, we need to stick together and focus on the things that we agree on. We need to focus on making sure that we are actually bigger than our limits. And that is what we can be if we count on all those people who live in Estonia if we do not reject those who want to be Estonian citizens and Estonian patriots. If we're going to recite that some are right and the others are wrong, I think we're going in the wrong direction. As far as Estonian culture is concerned, you talk about Estonian and Estonian culture, you were in government until Monday, but you did not really take big steps there. Give this government a chance! We have paid very much attention to the Estonian language; it is important to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U9	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I'm gonna ask you about the National Opera. We know that the National Opera is a very important institution for our high culture, which grows the whole layer of culture. That's why I'd like to know how you feel about the new building. Are you personally prepared to fight for this new building? It is also one of the bearers of our national culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U11	Thank you. If I were to start pointing out here that one object is more important than the other, I'd send out the wrong signal. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu discusses important cultural objects. We have a legislator who can express his will, and this will must be followed by the government. Of course, I have my own sympathies, as everyone does: who visit more of one cultural institution than the other. But what I personally think does not matter if we are the rule of law and this decision is taken by Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U13	Let us go to the next question, which is posed by Indrek Saar and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U14	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, first of all, congratulations on your first Question Time. Now I have a great opportunity to ask my first question to you as Prime Minister. This question, of course, relates to a fresh coalition agreement. Since you have said that it is general for obvious reasons, I would like to clarify a few things there. And the point is, what's to deny is another corruption case that shocked us all in the last few weeks. That is my question in this regard. If I'm reading this coalition agreement, there are some things I'm sure they're going to do. Among other things, it provides an opportunity to expect constructive cooperation with the association Corruption-free Estonia. But I do not read anything about how it is intended to combat the root cause of political corruption, which many experts have pointed out over the years. What does your government intend to do to reduce the pressure for political corruption? We know that one of the root causes of this is that in Estonia, the election results depend on money to almost one: the more money you have, the better you get in the elections. This inevitably puts pressure on political parties to invent different ways, to campaign as big as possible. It has been said for years that we should strive, both in the view of corruption and in substantive terms, to have a competition for ideas, not a competition for money, when we talk about what vision of our country we are trying to offer to people if we want to change something important. Do you have any idea what you as Prime Minister can do to get to the root of this problem to actually deal with the nature of this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U15	Thank you. Yes, the fight against corruption is certainly very important for this government, given that it has indeed been a problem. As far as the pressure on political corruption is concerned, I know that the Social Democrats have made proposals on this subject, and one proposal has been to limit electoral costs, to set a certain ceiling on the costs of electoral campaigns very clearly. I think there's one danger, and that's the danger that we're going to have these K-hunky-style things. The public campaign costs are limited, but there are ways to get past it. And in that case, we will not achieve the objective. One solution, however, I am not saying that I am proposing it because, in my opinion, this is not something that our state budget currently suffers from, if we look at the experiences of other countries, it is that political parties only receive funding from the state budget. It would reduce the pressure to have any donations at all. But given the state of our state budget, I think that in a liberal country, as we are, it should certainly be possible to include donations. One point that could be made in concrete terms relates to the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties and to the Commission's competence. This is precisely so that they look not only at the revenue they are currently making, who have donated, whether this donation is legal under the party law, but also have the capacity to control expenditure. We're watching these things ourselves, and we know what we're paying for election ads. And if you see that the costs of a competitor are from a completely different class, then inevitably the question arises as to whether the other party really has such a good negotiating position. If I were a media company, I would know that political parties have to do advertising, they have to buy it, so the market demand is very high, and I will therefore charge the corresponding price. But for some reason, part of the ad is cheaper. So, in fact, the competence to control costs is what I think will help to combat it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U16	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U17	Thank you very much for your substantive answer. I'll keep asking you about the same thing you were referring to. Suppose we really can do what you allow in the coalition agreement. We will strengthen the Political Financing Monitoring Commission and specifically give them the opportunity to control costs as well, so that we can really get a comparable basis at the price of someone buying something from somewhere. Doesn't it raise questions on its own when someone gets multiple discounts? After all, this too is clearly about getting better conditions in competition and, in fact, a kind of forbidden donation. If we really want to do something, we need to be able to regulate it better, better control it. If we are able to take these steps through the Committee on Financing of Political Parties, do you agree in principle that the campaign volumes could in one way or another be managed in such a way that we are able to control it all better, to set a limit? The pressure would then be reduced by panicking about obtaining money for campaigns and thereby creating a competitive advantage for yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U18	Thank you. First of all, party law says that a forbidden donation is when you get an advantage. The problem, in my opinion, is that the Political Financing Monitoring Commission is not able to control what is still the right cost or what is the cost of an analogous service to others. They don't have the appropriate levers. Should there really be a person there who can control such things? But, of course, there should also be an obligation to disclose all of this. Now the other part of your question. You also asked if there was any way to limit the campaign volume. Personally, I do not support it. This is precisely because, as I said at the beginning, if we set a ceiling, we will actually find ways to miss it and we will not achieve that goal. We have seen these opportunities in history, such as this K-hugue issue. It's like the campaign's limited, but there's a company coming on the market, right, K-chunk or some other kind of product. So let's think about it again! As a liberal, I do not support this restriction of volume, because I am afraid it is simply not possible to really control it. But cost control can be improved so that we can compare costs. If anyone has received a benefit under the party law that goes under a forbidden donation, it can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U19	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U20	Thank you. I wish the new government strength! This question here is about the government union agreement. This is a comprehensive document with very few concrete things, but one particular thing is really there, and I will continue the same debate. We are talking about increasing the capacity of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. And they say that it is important to increase the reporting obligations of politically oriented foundations and NGOs. I have a question, do you have any idea what these parameters are? Which principles are chosen and why only NPOs? Should political activists such as the Express Group or the Employers' Confederation not be controlled because they also influence politics? And where or when is this a decision-making place? Is this right really only left to the ERJK that they decide who is political and who is not political? And what is this about increasing transparency? Where is the limit that should be controlled from the earth, or exactly what is this measure? It's all been messed up for me. And it still seems to me the most important thing behind this sentence is that the aim is simply to subject one of Estonia's few real civil organisations, or Foundation Family and Tradition Protection, in principle, to persecution of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U21	Thank you. This is indeed one point that has led to a broad debate. I'll explain what's behind it. We have constantly seen here in the Riigikogu that we have some draft legislation in the proceedings and then various non-profit organisations, who seem to be really civil organisations or other social organisations, start to express opinions that this amendment to the bill or draft law is bad or good. And they are indeed taken to the public in such a way that civil society thinks so. It would be good if we knew the sources of funding for these associations. As former Minister of Finance, you certainly know very well that the interests of a particular company are actually behind many non-profit organisations. If it were public that their money actually comes from only one source, one entrepreneur, then both the MPs here in the Riigikogu and the public would be able to assess these views through the prism that it is not an independent civil society, but that it is intended to influence the political process in one direction or another. If we think about what politics is, it's an argument about what the rules we live by in society are. In my opinion, the point here is to be public, clear and transparent about how these processes will develop. If there are citizens back there, then everything's fine. But the point is to control precisely those organisations that have the suspicion that a company has actually made itself a resounding non-profit organisation that represents, I don't know, a sector, but actually represents the business interests of a particular company. Then all these opinions could be taken through this prism. I am not saying that it is bad that the company somehow defends its rights when the law concerns its area of activity. Definitely representing your interests is a natural part of the democratic process. But it should be transparent so that decision-making processes can be understandable and legitimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U22	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U23	The next question is asked by Andres Metsoja and answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U24	Mr Aab, I wish you good luck in your new position, but in a sense, in your old position as Minister of State Administration. The theme development is related to the design of Rail Baltic, this century's project, and I am based on the owner's view. In fact, as Chairman of the Rail Baltic Support Group, I have already sat together several times in a certain circle where ministers are also involved. And there has been a great question of whether the citizen or owner, who is affected by the Rail Baltic route corridor, has been fairly served by the state. In this sense, it is fair that he will be able to solve his questions from a holistic point of view. We know that the Land Administration is currently responsible for the acquisition of land, and this applies to KAHOS, or the law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest. At the same time, it has become very clear that no one is dealing with the processing of the related requirements. The Government of the Republic has not entrusted this to the Land Office and such an interesting interpretation is taking place, for example, in terms of granting European Union subsidies. Owners have even been given suggestions that it be set off. In particular, the subsidies already granted to some properties, either forgeries or arable land, will be set off in the context of the price of this asset. Here's my question for you. The law itself is good and gives instruments, but who, as a public institution, is responsible in today's state for getting an immediate solution and an answer to the acquisition of the land, whether or not they like the same ancillary questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U25	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Good Andres! We've talked about this briefly before. And I was trying to get an overview of how these processes take place. While we know that the Land Board deals with land issues as an implementing unit, in fact, according to the law on the acquisition of real estate in the public interest, these matters of land acquisition and replacement agreements are dealt with by the relevant ministers, ministries and agencies. As far as Rail Baltic is concerned, it is, as far as I know, the judge and, within certain limits, the decision-maker's new name, the Transport Authority. We had the Road Administration before, didn't we? In itself, there are processes in which a particular profession or ministry or minister must behave in all these price determinations, negotiations, settlement procedures, quick procedures, actually described in the law. I understand that you mean that every time, perhaps in essence, the will of landowners is not taken into account. Although there are general rules on the basis of which the price of the land is determined, the landowner can always carry out a parallel price survey and ask any company about the price and then negotiate with the relevant agency. There is an opera on its own how the negotiation will end, because KAHOS still gives the agency or the state certain rules. I guess this was actually adopted with the aim of simplifying and accelerating the process when a country needs land to develop some major infrastructure object. As far as this issue is concerned, when it is raised in this way, how does it concern the Minister for Public Administration? Well, let's just say that the Treasury Department is under the authority of the Minister of State Administration. And in fact, we can participate in the formulation of state property policy in a certain sense, even though, as far as I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has had more than that in the case of this law. But I promise that I will certainly talk to their respective ministries and try to explain what failures or conflicts could be in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U26	Andres Metsoja, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U27	Dear Minister, Thanks to you for this answer, and I will certainly look forward to this clarity, just as I have been waiting for the previous times, and so have many owners. This issue concerns your area of administration, in particular, in the sense that, as we have repeatedly talked about, a citizen should have a so-called one-stop-shop for communicating with the country. And this is actually a good pilot project in the key to state reform. The public interest is subject to private interest and is regulated by law. But we're leaving the owner alone right now. It is even very difficult for him to go to the settlement procedure to comply with this point of the law that, in addition to the price of the land, he receives 20% as a bonus. It is promised that the process will not lead to expropriation, which is actually a more time-consuming and certainly more unpleasant way of communicating with its citizens. But if there is no answer to the question of what will happen to the owner if he gives up a piece of his land in the public interest, then the owner will automatically be in a position where he is a weaker party. In fact, it is not even possible for it to opt for a settlement procedure, because if there are disputes, it is said that the court will decide the case, and in certain cases the court will probably. But there is certainly an argument that you then went to the agreement procedure that you still want, honourable citizens Ants and Malle. I would very much like this to be quickly discussed and substantively resolved in the government office. There is no justification that if we want to develop public space, we have actually decided by force to set up a pipeline corridor, to take part in the land of the owners, so that we do it in a way that is beyond our control or that a stronger right pays.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U28	Thanks for the elaborate question! The way you mentioned it, they're actually gonna argue in court. If there is no price agreement, there is no agreement on any other terms, then the landowner will always be able to go to court. But it is also clear that the state has no interest in arguing too much in court. And on the other hand, as you indicated, the current scheme is not designed to speed up and simplify the process. At the same time, I admit that landowners may feel that the state may be violating their rights in this procedure by speeding up this kind of action. Well, somehow he's hurting anyway, but the state has the right to violate the rights of owners in order to simplify certain processes. I agree that, as you pointed out, the Minister of Public Administration should deal with all matters relating to state administration. Most certainly! So if there are such problems as government administration, offices or, specifically, the interests of a private company or the interests of a landowner, the interests of people, I have tried to resolve these issues in the past, both in ministries and in the government. I take the task of at least clarifying what is the greatest problem, what is the conflict in these negotiations and procedures. And certainly with the help of the Treasury Department, which is really under my command, we're trying to find solutions. Whether these solutions will definitely be indebted to the answer, but I am willing to deal with it. Thank you, Andres!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U29	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said you'd find out what the biggest problem is. I can help you: the biggest problem is the Rail Baltic Railway itself. For all landowners, for the people of Estonia, it would be better if this harmful project were not taken away at all. Obviously, there is no fair price to be expected of humans for their land. Do we really have to cross the Estonian people with this route and make it into swamps and bogs? Why can't we still use existing railway routes? I think that this attitude towards the Estonian people is certainly not a good administration. I ask for your position as to whether it is still necessary to cross the Estonian people with this new route.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U31	Thank you for your question, Siim. Rail Baltic is not the only development used in this law. There are four-line roads that we're building. The State must also acquire land and property for this purpose, and it will also act in accordance with this law. As far as Rail Baltic is concerned, we could argue more about this. I would just like to remind you that in the previous coalition, too, the Central Party, the Fatherland and the EKRE, stated in the coalition agreement that if the European Union met certain funding conditions, Rail Baltic would be built. The fundamental decision to build was actually taken years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U33	Next, Rene Chef asks and is answered by the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U34	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, For starters, I wish you strength and strength in making the right decisions. Good Tanel! When we meet people, the question over and over again has come up about the behaviour of Valga Hospital's head. I am pleased that the Valga Hospital Council has made a decision today and calls the driver back. It's the right thing to do. But what do you think went wrong in there? Did the hospital manager fail to understand the instructions, or what could be the reason he made such a move? And, of course, I also acknowledge those to whom this offer was made and who did not accept it. In any case, this offer was not correct. What could have happened that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U35	Dear Rene Chef! Honourable Parliament! First of all, thank you for your question. I would say that it really went wrong there that it did not understand the instructions given and perhaps did not understand the gravity of the situation in the sense that COVID-19 vaccines are currently a global deficit. No hospital, no health care facility, has the moral right to unauthorizedly expand the list of people to be vaccinated. In fact, I am very pleased that in the case of Valga Hospital, this information came to us precisely because of those who were offered it. There were people among them who realized that this was not the most correct offer, and we were able to react quickly. Such self-allocations are not reasonable and are not acceptable. Originally, the hospital manager gave several strange explanations, to put it mildly. I agree with you that the decision of the Valga Hospital Council to resolve the situation by recalling the leader was reasonable. You could even say it was the only way. Otherwise, we would have given the wrong signal that knowing someone in higher education or using other means of communication would also be able to obtain the vaccine in a situation where it is not yet available to all the people and workers in the care home and to many health care professionals. It would have been morally wrong if it had been left unresponsive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U36	Rene Chef, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U37	Thank you. I would like to ask whether this particular case was an isolated incident or whether it has been through the Ministry that there have been other problems of this kind.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U38	Thank you. To be honest, there have been cases where there have really been some questioning with the vaccinated circle. It can be said that this has indeed been the most outstanding of the Marvels. Relatively unjustly, the circle of vaccinees began to be expanded, and later it was explained by incomprehensible claims, which did not make the situation any better, but rather worse. Start by saying that there are off-label-doses or any other thing that we've discussed here and thought about it just so it can't happen. In a situation where the vaccine is deficient, there must be a very clear distribution policy negotiated with the immunoprophylaxis expert committee, negotiated with the Health Board, the Health Insurance Fund and the Agency, and clearly agreed with the Ministry of Social Affairs. And they must be observed, especially if the vaccine is so deficient. We have had some other cases where we have intervened, where we have addressed some specific questioners. And there have also been cases where it has been done very correctly: the health authorities have politely asked us that if we have a situation that some people are not coming to get the vaccine, what we could do. The answer is, of course, that in this case, the next healthcare professional should be offered the vaccine at the same facility, to expand the circle. In general, these orders are made according to the logic that names have been agreed in advance, it is already known how many people want the vaccine, and then these vaccinations will be carried out. Not that you're gonna order the amount, and then you're just starting to wonder what you're gonna do with it. These have been isolated cases. I dare say that 99% of the 3,000 doses of vaccine that have so far been charcoald to Estonian people have been nicely and in a manner delivered. Surely we will continue to respond to such events and keep our hand on the pulse. Any feedback, information about any concerns is welcome. I very much hope that this emergence of individual anomalies will not cast a bad shadow on the health care system as a whole. The majority of hospitals and other health institutions, the family doctor level and nursing homes have acted in a very reasonable, responsible manner, in accordance with all instructions. In larger hospitals, more than half of the staff have already been vaccinated by two thirds, some by three quarters. Over 50 of our 200 nursing homes have received vaccinations today, and they are gradually moving forward. It can be seen that the health system and the welfare system take this very seriously. It is always a pity that such individual cases are very clearly damaging to the overall picture and give a much worse impression than they are. So, in any case, I want to recognise health professionals and institutions here. Reasonably, professionally, it has been very well understood what this vaccine is for and what it is not for. And if there are any questions, it is always right to ask and turn to something, not to take unilateral decisions, as in this case, which can lead to the consequences that we see in Valga Hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U39	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U40	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that the tablet is not a party or group statement behind my name that I am still a member of the EKRE Group. But come to these vaccines, take a look at the bigger picture. In recent weeks and days, we have now learned less about the Estonian media, more about the international media, more about the total failure of the European Commission's plan to make the delivery of vaccine to all Member States on a centralised basis. Tanel knows, certainly remembers how skeptical I have been since the beginning of this plan or the perception that we can get these vaccines faster or cheaper through Brussels. And there are a number of reasons. The first reason is that the European Union does not have competence in the field of health. This means that they do not have people who have dealt with it before, they do not have this experience. Let's just say that the failure in this estimate was probably relatively likely already known in advance. Second, what has happened is what might have been known in advance. Countries have gone into a fight with each other. Some countries are not primarily concerned with promoting vaccination, but with protecting the positions of their large domestic companies, medical companies. As a result of all this, European Union politicians in particular have started to chastise and threaten vaccine producers, with whom agreements have not been properly reached in the past. The result of all this is that more people die in Europe than in the rest of the world, where vaccination is progressing better, for example, in Britain or the United States, which have been through Brexit. People will die more and the recovery will take longer because they cannot open up economies. I have a question now. Does the new government have any other approach planned, our own national approach to getting vaccines when the previous government did?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U41	Thank you for your question. Good Martin! Yes, it must be acknowledged that you have been well established as a representative of the opposition. I'm serious! But, of course, there are problems that none of us deny. It is true that the European Union's negotiations with seven large vaccine manufacturers were, however, reasonable and correct from Estonia's point of view. If 27 countries had to negotiate one at a time, the negotiations with vaccine manufacturers in a country the size of Estonia would probably have ended so that we would not have the vaccine doses we have at the moment. This does not mean that we should not be demanding and should not be critical of the fact that, once specific delivery schedules have been established, contracts have been concluded with Pfizer-BionTech, be it with Astra-Zeneca, the manufacturer unilaterally states that they cannot be respected. That is, of course, a problem. For example, Pfizer-BionTech initially announced a four-week "temporary" reduction in production, and besides the Nordic and Baltic countries, I also signed it on behalf of the European Commission that such behaviour was not acceptable. And, in fact, under pressure from the countries of the European Union, Pfizer-BioNTech reduced this temporary fall in production from four weeks to one week and still managed to find a way to restore supplies more quickly. From mid-February he promises to increase supplies. So you definitely have to keep your hand on your pulse and be proactive so that no such unilateral changes are made. As far as AstraZeneca is concerned, only the amount of delivery in February is currently known: 75000 doses. You know, in the first quarter, we're counting 20,000 doses. Now, to be very precise, there was an initial hope that the company would already receive a marketing authorisation last year, which would have allowed us to assume that deliveries would also have taken place in December. But it's not. Now the question is, what will be the March number? How much of this 270000 we're actually gonna miss, we don't know that today. There have also been very serious negotiations at European level, discussions with the manufacturer on how the process has progressed. There is also a debate on certain European rules for the export of vaccines, precisely in the context that vaccines produced on European soil do not reach elsewhere. It's definitely one of those key places in the pharmaceutical industry. If something is produced elsewhere, there are also vaccine manufacturers, and there are pharmaceutical manufacturers, either in the United States or elsewhere, then during the crisis, their supplies may not simply reach European countries. It's definitely a place to learn from. In fact, cooperation with Pfizer-BioNTech has been clearly in this direction in order to increase production capacity on the ground, production units on the ground, so that these vaccines can be delivered more quickly and with certainty to European countries. As for your question of what the government wants to do differently, I think that in the main, the government will continue the line of the previous government. A common approach to the European Union is certainly sensible here. Compared to some other countries in the world who are still waiting for the first dose of vaccine, there are still 50,000 doses of vaccine in Estonia, 30,000 of which have been used up and the rest are kept for the second dose. So in the main, the same line continues, but we are proactive and demanding. Of course, we are asking producers to keep to the agreed timetables.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U42	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U43	The next questioner is Jevgeni Ossinovski and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U44	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Political corruption is something that erodes democracy very thoroughly. That is why the transparency of political parties and of the entire political system, the fair funding of political parties, is certainly among the fundamental issues of democracy. It has unfortunately happened now that political corruption is like a sang bomb that has stuck to you and your government's foot as a result of the serious suspicions that have come out against a coalition partner. However, in such cases, when there is a political crisis of this type, there is also an opportunity to do something important and it should not be wasted. I remember the last time it was in 2012, when the former leaders of your party discovered foreign coins in their pockets. And then we got a lot more power to the Political Financing Monitoring Commission and, in fact, a greater clean-up of the political system took place. Today it seems to me that we are in the same situation, and it would be very important to take advantage of this opportunity to take the next step towards transparency and cleanliness of Estonian policy. Consequently, this is my question. The coalition agreement has said that the ERJK must be strengthened in such a way that it is an important body. Is this an important enough topic for it to fit into the government's 100-day plan as a priority, and we will take this step quickly? And secondly, what has been agreed between coalition partners in this regard? Or will this agreement only be fulfilled with substance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U45	Thank you for that question. I absolutely agree that democracy is built on trust. When people question whether these processes have been fair and transparent, they also directly affect the legitimacy of these decisions and how people comply with the law. That is why this is very important. Now the question of increasing the powers of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. Indrek Saar asked the same question from a different angle. What have we been thinking? We have discussed this in depth, but, of course, given the circumstances, we could discuss it in much more depth. One way is to give the Commission more power to control the costs of political parties: that it is not only verifiable whether donations come from a legal source, but also whether they are clear and transparent. Does this fit into a 100-day plan? Yeah, I'm sure that's one of the first things we do. We can move forward with small steps in the fight against corruption, increasingly coming up with various initiatives. One of the first things that is relatively easy to do can be to start calling for declarations of the economic interests of ministers' advisers. To have a picture of how people who are involved in processes can be affected in one way or the other. It's easy to move on. As far as the Political Financing Monitoring Committee is concerned, as I said, it concerns all political parties. Therefore, my request would be that we discuss these matters with all the parties represented in the Riigikogu. I do not know, perhaps reaching a consensus is too ambitious a goal, but at least with a qualified majority, such decisions could be taken because it concerns all of us. And everyone should be on board equally, not only the coalition, but also the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U46	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U47	Thank you! This broader agreement in Parliament on this issue would undoubtedly also be appropriate. Consequently, it is a pleasure to announce that I have quietly written a draft and will soon give it to the procedure. So together, we can start looking for this agreement or compromise, and hopefully you can make sure, along with the Minister of Justice, that it does not get caught up in the will of the government coalition. My second question is simply so that one more issue can be taken down in this context. Both members of today's government association have said in the past that they could allow legal persons, companies, to start donating to political parties. What can the government expect in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U48	Thank you. I hope you consult before you hand over your bill. I certainly cannot confirm from this speaker that this idea, which is coming, will receive 100% support from us. We definitely need to discuss this. But if there are any good ideas, I'm open to good ideas. Now, what was the other part of the question? Yeah, that's right: corporate donations. I'm sorry! No, we do not intend to allow corporate donations to parties, as I have already said. When we look at how these things have been resolved in other countries, we see that the best are like those countries where all donations to political parties are prohibited and all money for political parties comes only from the state budget. But I understand that we are not in such a financial position that we can make such changes in a crisis situation. Looking at how to reduce the risk of corruption is certainly our goal, but there is no plan to allow the donations of legal persons.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U49	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! In the course of the debate in this Chamber, it has been pointed out how decisions are to be taken in the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties, i.e. whether or not funding cases are permissible. This will be done by a simple vote. My first question is: is it planned to change procedures in order to increase this capacity and competence in the Commission? Here's the second question. I have listened to your answers here, but how will you improve the identification of donors? Is there a plan to grant surveillance powers to the Commission? And there is the third question. If you have identified donors of these associations or the identity of the donors, be they traders or natural persons, how are their personal data to be protected? What will be done, and how will this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U51	Thank you. A whole series of questions, I'll try to answer everyone. Firstly, the extension of the mandate of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. I think that, in order for them to be able to do this work thoroughly, there may be a need for more analytical capacity. How does this Commission organise its decision-making process? I think that this should still be decided by the Political Financing Monitoring Committee itself. I think that making decisions with a majority in favour is democratic in itself. But yes, there should perhaps be more competence in that there are people who are able to evaluate these processes. Now, tracking rights. There is no plan to grant additional surveillance powers to the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. The third question was about public donations, which are also received by non-profit organisations involved in political processes. The idea is that, for example, it can be arranged that if a non-profit organisation gives an opinion on a draft being processed in the Riigikogu by sending its proposals to a specific committee, it is right to ask where their money comes from. As far as data protection is concerned, I am not sure that donation will go down there. We also have a tax exemption for donations. I can't answer that question right now. I think that, when we come specifically with this proposal, this aspect should certainly be taken into account that nobody wants the protection of personal data to be violated. Perhaps the solution really is that it is not public information, but intended for the ERJK, who can make it public if there is a company or whoever has specific economic interests. Or there are other solutions. But I'm sure all the rules that have been agreed must be followed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U52	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U53	Next, Sven Sester will ask, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. First of all, congratulations on becoming Prime Minister! My question relates to the coalition agreement. Many have said this in general terms, and I think that this is not only a spiteful statement by the opposition, but also a number of political observers and experts have said so. But one subject, which is surprisingly precise, relates to energy and mainly to oil shale. You have said that by 2035 oil shale electricity should stop and by 2040 oil production from oil shale should stop. That's where my questions are. I think that we will certainly begin to understand more about what you mean by this in the next few weeks-months, and maybe only actually fill this message. But here's my questions. There are three important things about oil shale in Estonia that do not exist in many countries: we have a resource, we have technology and we have knowledge. What do you mean by this point today? Given the situation in Ida-Virumaa, given that we have, I propose a billion dollars worth of property, various technologies, machinery, etc., given that today's decision is to allocate 200-300 million to the new oil plant, what do you mean anyway? Why do we want to act prematurely? Why do we really want to weaken our positions? As a representative of the Fatherland, I do say that we would certainly like renewable energy to come here with nothing to talk about, but it could be within the framework of the law. We could also make the most of this capacity within the framework of European Union law and continue, as far as possible, with oil shale for our energy security and economic development. Once again, I would stress that this could take place in all these legislative frameworks, as can be done at present. You seem to want to take certain steps at an early pace, and it would be good to know how you're up to this plan. Would you be so kind!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U55	Thank you. No, we're definitely not doing anything at this rate. When we look at other countries of the European Union, others have much more ambitious goals. The objective could certainly be even more ambitious, but it is not. It's what's agreed. Why is this important? In other countries where fossil fuels are used and extracted, the same is true. Given the world situation, the climate and the different trends at global and European level, it is clear that the whole world is moving towards phasing out fossil fuels. These deadlines, however, by 2035 for the abandonment of oil shale electricity are not really a very ambitious plan. We have power plants that produce electricity for the market and for the market price. We have oil shale power plants that have to compete with everyone else. And we know that there is now a situation where the time at which oil shale electricity is competitive in terms of its cost is already very limited. It's just expensive, considering all the costs involved in producing it. Agreeing these deadlines is important in terms of the signal given to Ida-Viru County. We don't want to scare you that it's gonna happen tomorrow. But we have deadlines, these targets are in place and we can take steps to attract a different industry and also use the European Union's resources from the Fair Transition Fund to help this region cope. Let us look at examples of the European Union, where there are similar regions with similar problems. There are coal mining regions in many parts of Europe, such as Italy, Germany and Slovakia. They're wrestling with the same problems. There are also very hardworking people who have very specific skills. And in order for these people to stay out of work, it is necessary to attract investment, which will enable this industry to be replaced. But all this must be done, bearing in mind also security of supply. If we look at Elering's reports, security of supply will certainly be guaranteed until 2030. But we have to deal with creating new production capacities that are greener. So that we can have this fortress clearly ourselves, not only through connections.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U56	Sven Sester, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U57	Thank you. I fully agree with you that oil shale energy production is likely to disappear at some point. A few years ago, we were, if not the only one, one of the few countries that was energy independent and also able to export energy. Today we are in a situation that has changed because of various sanctions and mainly due to the price of CO2: we are actually an energy-dependent country. In general, I completely agree with you. But still, if you look at your coalition agreement, it seems a little contradictory. On the one hand, you are clearly saying that you do not want to make additional investments in fossil fuels. And in the next sentence, you say that you want to build an LNG terminal in Estonia. It's a liquefied natural gas that's fossil fuel. Totally apart steps! Predictably, I'm saying that I think it makes sense to have a LNG terminal here. It carries exactly the same message that energy independence is needed. This is also a security issue. Why don't you comment on what you really mean? On the one hand, you want to make LNG a fossil fuel terminal, on the other, you say that you do not want to invest in fossil fuels. And the question of continuation. You yourself have stressed several times that you certainly want to talk to experts before making different decisions. During the coalition negotiations, did you consult with anyone on this subject, for example, with Eesti Energia, which is owned by the state and where there is expertise and where taxpayers' money has been invested in various technologies? I'm sure that would be important. How much expertise did you use? And maybe the third question. Certain investment decisions have now been taken. Do you want to turn something back? I am thinking, for example, of an additional oil plant and perhaps of some other investments. Or do you think these investments could be, but there will be no new investments? Three such questions: experts, new decisions and whether this LNG terminal issue can be moved forward. Be nice!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U58	Thank you, very good questions! Firstly, investment in fossil fuels. Indeed, we have agreed that taxpayers' money will not be invested more in fossil fuels. As far as this oil plant is concerned, indeed, the previous government allocated 125 million, if I recall correctly, to the construction of this oil plant. It's the money that's already gone for it. We look to the future, and this investment will no longer be made in a forward-looking way. Now, the LNG terminal is a private initiative. This point in this coalition agreement does not mean that the state is going to build this terminal, but that the multiplicity of different energy sources is actually one of the pillars of the independence of Eesti Energia. After all, we have been talking for a long time about the fact that we should have different producers' offers on the market so that we should have different energy sources. Each energy source has its own advantages and its own disadvantages. If there's wind, the wind can be used, but if there's no wind, there should be some power that can be used instead. The third question concerned experts. Yes, during the coalition negotiations, we had such a division of labour that we had one team that was involved in the negotiations and another, a larger team that was communicating with various experts and working groups, working on the proposals that came up at the table. And as you probably know very well yourself, if such a message has already come out that coalition talks are being dealt with, then you will immediately have a mailbox full of different ideas and ideas that could go into the coalition agreement. I am more than convinced that this working group, the Working Party on Economic Energy, took all the e-mails sent to them, took these proposals into account, discussed them and finally came to the table with them. This can continue to be done if concrete plans are to be taken forward. I think that the involvement of experts is certainly important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U59	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U60	Thank you. I have a question in this area that the Prime Minister knows of course. Touching this bill 156. During the previous government, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft, which I consider to be bad for both consumers and the environment, and which should be aimed at the mass burning of wood in inefficient Narva boilers. For this, a large amount of natural resources is wasted and a large part of the energy is poured into the river. This plan, in my view, has now been in the wake of the State aid permit for a long time, and the authorisation of State aid was regrettably granted from the European Commission, because the European Commission has not yet been able to change its renewable energy policy on bio-efficiency criteria, etc. But now, I think, fortunately, Estonia's nature and people have a new government. In the context of this bill, I would like to know what the government's attitude is. What's the Prime Minister's attitude? That's what I heard on Monday. But what is the government's attitude towards this bill? Will it be withdrawn, adopted or not yet agreed on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U61	Thank you. Indeed, there was a very intense debate on this subject. I don't think it's right to burn wood in those boilers either. This is not good from the point of view of the Estonian forest, from the point of view of Estonian nature and it is basically not right, it does not carry the objective that the use of renewable energy sources should bear. Now this particular question, the specific draft. Yes, it has been requested from the European Commission for a State aid authorisation. If the whole point is that Narva's heat is not too expensive, then I think we need to find other solutions. And it became very clear at the table of coalition negotiations that we are trying to find other solutions because simply burning wood in these boilers is not reasonable in the long term. Let us see what the problem is, let us try to find a solution to this problem, not necessarily going the easiest way to pay for the support for burning this wood in oil shale boilers. So we're looking for a solution that's cleaner and greener.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U62	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U63	Next, Mart Helme asks, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Let me first make a very unconventional remark. I really like your jacket. It's got really nice black buttons and they look like my dog's beautiful black eyes. The question is in some respects a follow-up to the issues raised by Sven Sester, but from another aspect, particularly from a social point of view. In the coalition agreement, as well as in the interviews, you have stressed, both parties, that for you the grassroots is a very important priority, perhaps even the most important priority. We all know that doing this green turn isn't that easy. We have talked here today, in particular, about Ida-Viru County, the oil shale industry, the chemical industry and oil shale oil production. Pulling it all together and ending it will have very clear social consequences. These social consequences may be cumulative in the case of stupid policies for very clear and serious social unrest, at first for dissatisfaction, but maybe further from there for unrest. Given that looking across the river from Narva clearly shows how the oil shale industry on the other side of the river continues, jobs are preserved, ports are working, etc., it can create a great deal of tension. But the question is not just East Virumase. The green turn also concerns forests, wood chemistry, the timber industry, which has been mentioned on the edge. In Central and South Estonia, about 12% of people depend on everything related to the timber industry. It's in the order of 70,000 people. This will mean a very serious regional policy problem when the grassroots grassroots is restricting the well-being of these people, jobs and the possibility of living in the countryside. Has your government already set out the lines of how to deal with these social problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U65	First of all, thank you for the compliment. You must have looked deep and long in the eyes of your dog. That's very sweet. But now to this question. Yes, of course, the heroes will bring about a change. That's the point. Socio-economic problems are absolutely focused so that people do not suffer and people have jobs. A fair transition fund is foreseen for this purpose in the European Union. While I was a Member of the European Parliament, the Fair Transition Fund was only intended for coal-mining regions. I fought there for oil shale to enter it too, because what is actually being sought for is fossil fuels, and oil shale is one of the fossil fuels. Yes, indeed, it is only an Estonian problem. It seems small in the big picture, but it is a big issue for Estonia. The whole point of this is that we look to the future and try to find a different socio-economic model, a different industry, and we are actively working to get this industry there. But the assumption is that we admit that we have a socio-economic problem there, and we are taking steps. Looking at what has been done in other parts of the world, we can take the lead in making sure that such investments are welcome there. As far as the timber industry is concerned, I agree with you that wood processing and timber industry are a very important sector in Estonia. But the question is, for example, with regard to this previous question, whether we are simply dumping wood into the oven or whether we are deserving of this wood. The woods are one of our own. If a tree is cut down, what is it made of? Our desire is that we attract smarter jobs and direct the economy, that greater added value be taken out of this wood and that smarter products are made of it than just taking out purely logs or burning wood.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U66	Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U67	Yeah, I admit, of course, that we have a touch point in that sense, that we're both worried about what happens. But I am afraid that neither those people who are now receiving a very decent salary from these sectors and feel their necessity and dignity as citizens, nor those relatively misty perspectives, are very comforting. We must also take into account that both the oil shale sector, together with all this, and the timber industry, the forest industry, are our main export sectors. If the oil factory alone has brought us, if I know correctly (Martin may have corrected me in his speech), a few hundred million tax receipts, how can it all be levelled? My question, however, is what is the alternative to people, especially those living in rural areas, when these sectors are being pulled together. Is it really only an alternative to going abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U68	Thank you. Again, I agree with you that people want to feel valuable and valuable when they are needed in society. It is very much expressed in whether people have a job. That is why efforts must be made to ensure that people have jobs. What can be done? Again, look at the world practice that has been done to change the so-called economic models. Countries have made great efforts to do so. Let me just give you an example. Singapore started by creating training centres where the company was able to train employees with the appropriate skills, and when the company had already developed a trusting attitude towards those people that these people had these skills, and so people learned the skills they needed, this investment also came. There are other examples. But as far as Eesti Energia oil factory is concerned, this picture should be seen in the collection. On the one hand, this money, the taxpayer's money, which is paid from the state budget to Eesti Energia, and on the other hand, the money that will be withdrawn. You can't say these numbers aren't big and it's only a very profitable venture. If you look at the numbers, that's not the end of it. On this wood, I would say that Finland, for example, has an entrepreneurial strategy, that they export trees and heads, or brains or smart people or knowledge, and different products of the wood industry and wood chemistry. They're actively working on it. I think that the work of the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology should also be furnished in such a way that he is actively engaged in obtaining additional opportunities for our companies and attracting investment here. As I said at the beginning, people would have jobs and they would pay good wages for this job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U69	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U70	Thank you. I would first like to point out that virtually everything you are talking about is the replacement of tax revenue with the state budget. Practically everything. We are eliminating productive, tax-receiving activities from the private sector and providing some form of public training. Here you even have a nice point: "We will implement a stimulus package to ensure that local authorities reach carbon neutrality by 2030. " Essentially, local government leaders are motivated by central money in order to liquidate production locally. It's pretty creepy what you're up to, and there's no need for it. Estonia is ahead of most European countries with its climate goals. We are one of the few countries that even meet these climate targets. It was a question of security. Energy security is one of the most important components of all security. If we do not have energy security, what do we do? Last summer, we had a situation in which both the northern cable towards Finland and the cable towards Latvia went out of line, and the only reason why Estonia did not stay in darkness for two days was because I had issued a decree as a minister that Eesti Energia must maintain reserve capacity, thereby keeping Estonia's energy independence and thousands of jobs. We're talking about shutting down oil production. Oil production is the transition, it reduces CO2 emissions, preserves jobs, increases productivity. I still have a question: what is your plan if we are to switch to renewable energy and we know that this transition will take a long, long time, because the plans themselves will take years and years. How is Estonia's energy security ensured?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U71	Thank you. Firstly, on the contrary, the aim is precisely to attract the private sector to invest and to create the possibility that it should not be dealt with by the state. You refer to Eesti Energia as a private company. After all, as your former Minister of Finance, you know very well that Eesti Energia belongs 100% to the Estonian state and is not in any way comparable to other private sector companies. He always has the opportunity to go and ask for money from a country's so-called bottomless wallet that private companies do not have. That's one. Secondly, energy security is of course important. Look at Elering's security of supply report. This report says that energy security is guaranteed in Estonia at least until 2030. There is time for 2030, but investment needs to be made. If there is simply a situation where there is a payment for the existing ones, there will be no market competition, after all, there will be no opportunity for the private sector to participate in this area. Isn't that reserve power that exists on the gas? But I'm just saying from memory, I'm not entirely sure about this right now. There must, of course, be reserve capacities in case one or the other thing fails. There must be electricity in Estonia. But there are other ways to do this, which are cheaper than oil shale, given the price of CO2 and everything that relates to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U72	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U73	The next questioner is Helmen Kütt and is answered by the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U74	Good luck with the new government! You also have a new minister for health and work, but in terms of health care and the kroon virus, you are actually an old-timer. That's why we don't need time to catch up. In the fear of the spread of the new kroon virus, which is precisely this new strain, some countries have started to tighten [the restrictions] on the national borders. A number of countries, such as Finland and France, as well as Norway, have notified the closure plan. It is known from the press that some cases with a new strain have been detected in Estonia, and in Finland at the beginning of this year at least one new kroon virus strain was detected. I know you'll have a discussion with the scientific council tomorrow. What are the plans? What is Estonia planning to do? However, how much virus with this new strain has been detected in Estonia? I have read what Professor Meritsa said that this virus is not directly deadly, but it spreads much faster and consequently there are many, many more victims. The United Kingdom is an example here. What is the situation in Estonia with regard to the spread of this new strain? What are the plans, or what will you discuss with the government tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U75	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Thank you, of course, for your good wishes. The spread of the Corona virus in Estonia is, yes, still alarmingly high. I certainly do not think that I should be given a hundred days without criticism, which I am not seeking. Work must continue at least at the same pace as before. As far as the new strain is concerned, it has indeed been observed on a few occasions in Estonia. It is true that, like most countries, Estonia has not been sequencing all the samples, perhaps looking exactly at which strain they come from. It's a pretty expensive procedure. In the case of one of these samples, we are talking about EUR 1000 in size, which is something that can only be done at random, selectively. We have decided that we will do so for people coming from Great Britain. Then a full analysis will be carried out to get a picture of the people who will give a positive test from Britain. After all, we have created the possibility of testing at airports months ago, precisely in order to identify the carriers of the virus as soon as possible, to direct them to self-insulation, to inform their close contacts, and also to direct self-insulation and, if necessary, to provide treatment to people. Today, when we are talking about specific measures, we are, above all, continuing to carry out intensive testing at airports, and we will continue to do so in ports. In the case of ships, negotiations are taking place with Finland on how exactly to regulate movement on the Tallinn route and ensure infection safety. Certainly testing and identifying as early as possible is one of the key points here. You're asking about the spread of this new strain of the virus. The truth is that there are considerably more of these strains. After all, several different strains have been identified in Estonia, and a particular Great Britain strain was initially detected in September. It's just that, let's say, the analysis was done somewhat later, it's coming with a certain delay. In reality, it has been circulating in continental Europe with 100% certainty for several months. In this view, it is natural that it has also reached Estonia. I think it is more important that all residents of Estonia continue to comply with maximum measures to prevent the spread of the virus: the 2+2 principle, being at home sick, coming from abroad in any case testing, not travelling at all if possible, rather going to work and home, lighter procedures, it is a shopping or walking trip, of course, to go there. Also maximum use of teleworking whenever possible, video meetings and other solutions that all help to reduce contact and thereby mitigate the risk of infection with the virus. But tomorrow, the government will really discuss all the proposals of the Scientific Advisory Board on recreational activities, public events, catering establishments and the whole package of measures in force. It is also understandable that the new government must have the opportunity to look at what is in force in Estonia, we gave an overview of it yesterday, and what are the proposals of the scientific council for the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U76	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U77	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Very much has been said and written about vaccines and vaccinations. I am not going to ask you this, because Estonia is, like many other countries in the European Union, currently waiting for the supply problems to be resolved and we can get enough vaccine. At a public social committee meeting, a group of informal carers was added to the list, especially carers of people who are at home and who, either because of bed sickness or something else, because this vaccination requires special conditions, are difficult to vaccinate. The perceptive officer may be the only link that this person has to the world, and he also has a potential risk of transferring the virus to the person in his home. I don't expect you to know this right now that this subject, the perp, has gone to that list. Indeed, so-called "frontier workers" (although I do not like this term, it reminds me of wartime) are also sellers of shops, for example, who all need and can be vaccinated if they wish. But the subject of informal care is quite acute, as there are very many people who are elderly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U78	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this debate has been held. Let's start by not having the full assurance that vaccination will make a person safe. This is the first thing to take into account, that vaccination with a carer is likely to result in a stronger health, a lower risk of disease, but it does not prevent him from accidentally bringing the infection to the person he cares for. This is the case for social workers, for health professionals, for all. Of course, it is important that, on the one hand, we vaccinate (you did not like this term, but I still use it) frontier workers in the social, health and other areas. In the same way, I'd say really, volunteers. Inherited carers are known to have a very different category, one can say: who do this work because of circumstances, contribute to the well-being of their loved ones, for whom it can be said to be a profession, such as home providers, and for whom it is something intermediate. Their vaccination is certainly reasonable and justified, too, but this can be done when vaccination volumes have increased somewhat. It is then possible for family doctors to make certain distinctions on their own list by looking at who has a specific diagnosis, where they have an additional risk of illness, or who have such a profession, such a job or comorbidity, other health problems that have occurred in the past, and on the basis of this, start calling these people. However, this target group has not yet really been reached at this stage, it certainly has to be reached. You also rightly said that, in fact, the solution is to offer vaccination to almost the entire Estonian population. This "frontier work" is such a relative concept. I also have visits in the mailbox, I think, of at least ten areas of life that feel themselves as the front line: media, scientists, commerce, catering facilities, not to mention health care, the social system, education, rescuers, police, also prison services. Perhaps in reality, we will inevitably come to this solution, which we are moving towards, so that, from May onwards, all Estonian residents will be able to vaccinate themselves if they wish and thus protect their health and the health of their loved ones. But until then, we're moving on to the vaccination plan, waiting for news of the AstraZeneca vaccine, and gradually every month, in any case, we'll expand the number of vaccinees and increase the number of vaccinees. In any case, as long as we have not vaccinated more than half of the Estonian population or most of the risk groups have been vaccinated, all these restrictions and measures must be complied with with with with full seriousness. This is the safest way to help prevent the widespread spread of possible new strains as well as to support those who are caring for them and the people they care for in order to protect their health and life. Of course, as far as possible, self - vaccination is the safest way to keep them healthy, which is always done when the medical indication allows.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U79	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, You listed measures to prevent the spread of the virus, and you also mentioned testing. At New Year's Eve, I had a family situation where a family member was forced to go to the emergency department. We knew he was corona negative. When they entered that department, they took a corona sample, which was negative at first. Suddenly, this sample turned positive. He demanded a new sample, then a new sample was taken, and when the answer came the next day, it was positive at first, and after two hours it became negative. The saddest thing about it, of course, is that, although there was a health problem that required urgent medical intervention, the whole time that the confusion was with the answers to these tests, he was not dealing with this problem. In fact, a person wanted to be taken to the Coronal Department, where he would only have been a coronal patient, would have been alone and would not have been treated. I have two questions. In this situation, how are people guaranteed access to medicine? I have been informed on several occasions about how people do not get the treatment because of the focus on the corona. That's the first question. The second question is based on this example of how the test turned from negative to positive, after positive to negative, and it was called a lab confusion. How can we make any decisions if we do not know the exact number of infected people? We can't trust that number of infected people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U81	Honourable Chairman! Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. So let's start with the first half. Of course, a positive or negative sample of the corona virus must not constitute an obstacle to access to treatment. In emergency care departments, and often also in scheduled treatment, these tests are simply carried out in order to know what measures must be taken in order to provide care to people, i.e. whether they must be treated with "normal" protective equipment or with somewhat increased protection, namely to maintain the health of healthcare professionals and prevent the spread of the virus in the hospital. The department where a person is placed often depends on it. But, of course, medical services are complex, i.e. in the COVID-19 department, people may need a lot of operations, activities, support, if necessary people will also move between departments if this is justified in this situation. So taking a test in this view is not a cure for decision, but rather for [to be known] that when a person needs critically unavoidable treatment, what measures must be taken. In the case of routine scheduled admission, a positive sample may, of course, be the reason for delaying treatment if it is not a time-critical situation. Without knowing all the details that, I understand, we cannot open here, it would not be correct for this person, it is, of course, difficult to say exactly why he was delayed in receiving treatment. It is certainly best to address a particular health institution if this situation was indeed so, say, uncomfortable or unsuccessfully resolved in a person's view, and ask for an explanation and a justification as to why such choices were made. As regards the positive or negative reading of the virus tests, it is true that there are certain cases where the number of viral particles is so low, that part of the RNA, or there is no conviction as to whether this analysis was successful. Then a person can get such an "intermediate, borderline" result, or what someone wants to call it, where a repeat sample is usually taken, a new analysis is carried out to see what the result really is. I haven't quite heard anyone change rehearsals many times. However, there have indeed been situations with the first sample where, for example, the duplicate test proves negative or, on the contrary, positive compared to the original one. In certain cases, there may also be human errors that [there have been] errors in entering some data. They can happen in laboratory work, as people who are inevitably working in the health sector and making mistakes are humane. But in the main, I dare confirm, however, that our labs are professional, that the people who work there are professional, that the equipment is advanced. We have a pretty good overview of how many people are actually infected with the virus and how many of them need hospital care. These numbers are well correlated, i.e. in the case of an increase in the spread of the virus, we have also seen a relatively rapid increase in the need for hospital care and an increase in the number of deaths somewhat later and vice versa. This indicates that testing generally works, however. Of course, no country knows the number of people infected. To this end, we will carry out monitoring studies in order to assess, precisely on the basis of the so-called random sample, the overall prevalence among the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U82	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U83	Next, Mikhail Lotman asks, and Prime Minister Kaja Kallas answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U84	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! First of all, I wish you every success in this difficult and responsible work. My question relates to the consistency and style of foreign policy. In the coalition agreement, foreign policy issues were somewhere backwards and were limited to general formulation. However, for a country like Estonia, based on our geopolitical situation and other factors, foreign policy is an existential issue. Here it is important not only to be consistent, but also to have a certain degree of continuity in political style. In two years Estonia's foreign policy has been very bold and dynamic. On many issues, we have been at the forefront of international dialogue, for example on human rights in the elections in Belarus. I would remind you that the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs first expressed the opinion that the election of Lukashenko was not legitimate, and then it went all over the world. We are in such a force field, a transatlantic relationship and the European Union, we often have to choose which direction we are going. Today, when Mr Borrell makes very strange and not the best thoughtful gestures and visits to Russia, while Antony Blinken is very competent in Russian and also in Estonian affairs, he is our great friend, is very important...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U85	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U86	...to have a dynamic foreign policy. I hope the question was understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U87	Thank you. Foreign policy is certainly very important. In this, I fully agree with you that relations with other countries are the most important for a small country. The principle of Estonian foreign policy has been that never again alone, which means that we have many friends and allies outside Estonia. If you ask whether our government will continue the political style that the previous government had in foreign policy, then no, this style we certainly do not intend to pursue. Think about insulting the Prime Minister of a neighbouring country, saying that NATO needs plan B, "sent" some people to Sweden, etc. This is not the policy-making style that we intend to pursue. However, we certainly intend to rebuild our relationship with our allies. We intend to take the lead at European Union level when we talk about the various initiatives that are there and in which Estonia can take the lead. But the European Union is perhaps not a foreign policy; we are part of the European Union as well. It is still a question of how we behave in the UN Security Council, how we behave in NATO and other organisations. So this line has been kept. In my opinion, what perhaps our government will have in a different way than the previous government is that I hope that our government will not use foreign policy as an extension of internal policy, but we will work to ensure that there is a cross-party consensus in foreign policy decisions, as was actually the case in previous governments, that we act outside like one man.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U88	Mikhail Lotman has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U89	In my opinion, foreign policy is conducted in Estonia by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; it is not conducted in private conversations. No offensive statements have been received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about any of our allies. It wasn't a question, it was a protest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U90	Yeah, I understand that, but now I'm asking you a very specific question, Mikhail Lotman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U91	Thank you. The question to be clarified will continue this key issue. When a new government was formed, society, the press, as well as politicians had strong expectations of certain persons. It was almost obvious that Marko Mihkelson would be appointed as Minister of Foreign Affairs. There is no person in the coalition who is more competent in these areas than Marko Mihkelson. You answered the previous questions about the style that you were in the coalition with the Centre Party. We were, yes, and the Ministers of the Centre Party did a very good job in the previous government, including those ministers who are sitting next to you right now. However, there was a very clear understanding in the previous coalition that a party with a cooperation agreement with Jedinaya Rossija could not run the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I understand that among the politicians of the Central Party, you did not find a suitable candidate for Foreign Affairs and replaced them with a very good diplomat. But I have a certain concern that Estonian foreign policy will be run by an official, while there should be a very strong political face.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U92	First of all, about this protest. Foreign policy is still represented outside the entire government, and the words of the government have weight; the words of all members of the government have weight, which inevitably also sounds outward. As regards your statement that foreign policy must not be made by a representative of the party that has an agreement with the United Russia, the situation will be much better. In your government, there was an agreement with the United Russia on the Prime Minister's party, the Prime Minister being the leader of the government. In our government, there is an agreement with the United Russia on the Centre Party, which fulfils other positions. After all, the main foreign policy leader in the government is the Prime Minister; he also does foreign policy or represents Estonia outside the President. I also believe that the new Foreign Minister, given his experience, will do well. Now the question about Marko Mihkelson. Yes, I absolutely agree with you that Marko Mihkelson is a very strong foreign policy expert and expert. Therefore, as the Foreign Minister's portfolio went to the Centre Party, Marko Mihkelson remains in the Riigikogu to balance it as head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I think his expertise is very important and appreciated there and adds much to this whole picture. As I say, the foreign policy objective should be uniform for the entire government, but hopefully also for the entire Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U93	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject, and I will stop looking at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U94	Next, Raimond asks Kaljulaid and answers the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U95	I would like to draw attention to this (this has been a discussion in the past) that, indeed, under the Foreign Relations Act, foreign communication is primarily the prime minister responsible for foreign communication within the Government of the Republic. My question really is for Tanel Kiige and it concerns her knowledge, the best knowledge she has today, as Minister of State, when it is expected that we will be able to overcome this health crisis and relaunch the Estonian economy. I believe that this is certainly the greatest expectation that the people of Estonia have for both the government and the state as a whole. I am asking this, thinking in particular of people who are active in the field of culture and cultural management and who, due to the restrictions in force, are either unable to carry out their main activity at all or are exceptionally difficult. I am referring here to musicians, event organisers, concert organisers, but also to the owners and employees of concert venues. I understand this very well, it is certainly extremely difficult to make predictions, but I am sure that the Minister for Industry will probably have the most information from the authorities. What is Tanel Kiig's sense of current trends, given the current plans, when will people in this field who cannot do their main job and who are therefore deprived of their incomes again be able to continue their activities more or less without restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U96	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. After all, half the answer to the question was that it is very difficult to make these promises on a date. There are countries that are officially talking no longer about the second wave, but also about the third wave, which is the improvement of the situation that has been achieved in the meantime with restrictions, followed by a rapid rise [infection], which in turn makes it necessary to move to the third circle with restrictions. This is something that we certainly want to avoid in Estonia, so that there is no situation where we go on too quickly with mitigation and we soon find ourselves in a situation where we need to reverse the decisions that have already been made, close it again, narrow it down again again, thus certainly creating even more confusion in the entertainment sector, these are concert organisers or other entrepreneurs and people who have to plan their activities long and long and hard to do so with 'week notice'. If you ask about time, then the honest answer is: gradually, step by step, based on the evolution of the virus, which is an estimate of vaccination, which is also an estimate of the effect of seasonal changes on the virus's own natural rate of infection, i.e. the rate of transmission. Certainly, during the spring we will see a gradual withdrawal of these restrictions. In the summer, I dare say, all the concert organisers will be able to feel relatively relaxed by now. Are there any limits? Perhaps, but certainly these limits are no longer measurable in tens but in hundreds or thousands, as we also saw last summer that the spread of the virus disappeared in Estonia at a certain point in time. There was a specific wave of surveillance where 0 positive results came out of random sampling and the daily figures went down completely. Maybe we're smarter every week. Now I think that the beginning of spring is still a relatively difficult period, the second half of spring is going to be more positive and the summer is going to be much milder in every sense, both because of the decline in the normal spread of the virus itself, and because more and more people have been vaccinated, there has been protection against more serious illness and thus easier participation in events without the strict measures of confidence that we are now accustomed to. I'm sure if there's some kind of certainty that you can say a date, that's what the government will do, but today, I think, it would be premature and maybe in vain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U97	Raimond Kaljulaid, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U98	Thank you! Yeah, I totally understand that, these predictions are very difficult to make. I think that no one would complain either if these forecasts changed, because the situation is very unpredictable and volatile and there is a great deal of ignorance. But yes, while I am thinking, for example, of entrepreneurs who have made or are making investments in an area whose business plans hang in the air, they would be very valuable in terms of information, which is a forecast based on the state's best knowledge today. My second question is whether, in addition to the publication of current information concerning the number of people infected or the number of persons in hospital care (which, unfortunately, also reflects the number of people who have lost their lives in this statistics), the government, the state, could, in some order, also publish a forecast based on the best knowledge of their own authorities on when there is hope of reaching a situation where we no longer have such large-scale restrictions in our economy and we can start working on relaunching the economy. Of course, these forecasts will change, as will forecasts of the economy or public finances. If unexpected events occur, they shall be amended, specified and supplemented. But could this be one of the information published regularly by the government, which is also shared with the public and on the basis of which there would be a little more certainty and clarity for businesses and people in the sectors with all possible limitations to make their own plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U99	Dear Chairman, Honourable questioner, thank you for your clarification. In fact, we have so far been in a situation where the spread of the virus has become more difficult, we have in some ways increasingly entered the second-wave view of the crisis. At the moment, we can really say that for the first time, we are in a situation where, over the last month, the rates of infection have stabilised, the need for hospital care has stabilised. Specifically, the peak in hospital care was on 28 December, which was almost a month ago, although this level is still close today, it fluctuates to 10% below this level. Similarly, the two-week number of infection was the highest, if I say correctly, on 10 January. It has also been somewhat over. So it can be said that we have finally reached where we have always wanted to be, that is, stabilisation and a slight downward trend. After all, we have developed and in December also published a health system plan to overcome the crisis, in cooperation with health actors, under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The vaccination plan also serves the same purpose in order to gradually emerge from the crisis. As regards the relaxation of restrictions and the re-launch of the economy, the new coalition has also agreed in its coalition agreement that we will develop principles and an action plan for the exit of the Corona virus from the pandemic. Now we are really at this stage, where, as I have pointed out, by acting correctly and sensibly, gradually relaxing restrictions, moving forward with vaccination as quickly as possible, we can talk gradually about getting out of the crisis. So far, it was simply not rationally sensible to deal with the exit from the crisis when we actually knew that the spread of the virus due to trends in Europe and the world, also due to seasonal peculiarities, was still growing and amplifying, and it would have been premature to talk about coming out in this light. At that point, it was necessary to address the need for the hospital system to withstand, or for people to be tested as quickly as possible, so as to ensure that the spread of the virus at borders, in the same way as in the circle of close contacts, are events, these are different work groups, including families. Perhaps the answers to your questions will come, and I think that the action plan developed by the government will also provide the primary characteristics. I dared to say at the moment that the second half of spring and summer will certainly be much less favourable than the current situation. Let's also look at the vaccination plan, the targets set. By the end of April, we will reach a situation where all people at risk are 70+ people, people with certain diagnoses, not to mention nursing homes, health institutions, have become a vaccination option, hopefully the majority of them will also use it. This means that a higher risk in hospital care, in the view of serious deaths, has been grounded, and in May we are already dealing with vaccination of the population more widely, which means that it will also be possible to take a much less lighter approach to these restrictions, to organise more events. And what can be denied there, in the Estonian climate since May, June, July it is possible to organise concerts and other activities much more successfully in the field, as it is known that the risk of infection is already significantly lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U100	Thank you. We must also have time for a hall call, so a brief question from Mr Odines, as well as a brief answer from the Minister, would be asked. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U101	Thank you. Mr Raimond asked about the longer term, I would ask about the shorter time. The scientific council has proposed that you meet on the central floor, as I read in the news, either to relax or tighten up, in any case to harmonise restrictions across Estonia. What are your thoughts on what decisions will the government make tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U102	Dear Chairman, Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. The government will really discuss the situation tomorrow. Yesterday we heard about the health services, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the scientific council, SITKE's state of play, the restrictions in force, their proposals. Personally, I support harmonisation across Estonia. We need to look at a picture of the virus. If we can see that Harjumaa is no longer with higher levels of infection than many other counties, we can clearly see here the downward trend, the slowing trend, it is not wise to keep here as strict measures as Ida-Viru County and somewhat more stringent measures than elsewhere in Estonia, but rather to gradually bring this picture together. But of course, these decisions are made by the government as a whole. A very comprehensive table has been developed by various parties: Health Board, Ministry of Social Affairs, State Chancellery, Scientific Advisory Board. The members of the government really got to think yesterday and today, get acquainted with these documents, also assess the economic side, the legal side, and tomorrow, these decisions will have to be taken, because otherwise certain restrictions would disappear automatically from next week. So the information will come tomorrow and will certainly be very clearly communicated to all the target groups, which are measures in force in the specific area and in the region.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U103	Thank you. I will finish this question and I will also finish today's Question Time. I thank all the questioners and thank the respondents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U104	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 3rd working week session of the V plenary session on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the suspension of the powers of the members of the Riigikogu Kaja Kallas, Liina Kersna, Urmas Kruuse, Kalle Laaneti, Maris Lauri, Tõnis Möldri, Keit Pentus-Rosimitus, Signe Riisalo and Andres Sut due to their appointment as members of the Government of the Republic, alternate members Ivi Eenmaa, Toomas Järveoja, Õnn Pillak, Mati Raidma, Timo Suslov, Margit Sutrop and Aivar Viidik will be members of the Riigikogu today. Next, we will hear their vows. First, please, Ivi Eenmaa! Speaker, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U106	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U107	Toomas Järveoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U108	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U109	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U111	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U113	Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U115	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U116	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U117	And Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, now! Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U119	Okay. Once again: congratulations to all new members of the Riigikogu and strength to work! Let us not confuse the lines of opposition and coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U120	The members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group and member of the Riigikogu Raimond Kaljulaid, I will submit to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the law on party law and enforcement procedure. This is about political corruption, or to reduce it. Fair competition between political parties and politicians is a prerequisite for democratic policy to function. Political corruption, which aims to create an illegal advantage for a political party in elections, undermines people's confidence in the political system. But the democratic organisation of society is based precisely on the social trust that elected politicians of the people will exercise state power in the interests of the people. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has pointed out that democracy is even damaged by the impression that good decisions can be bought or influenced by money. Although Estonia's political system has certainly become more transparent over the years, we can see that the sanctions and rules so far have not been effective enough, as some parties have continued to accept and offer decisions for illegal money. The concrete motivation for the draft was the suspicion of the Centre Party and the EKRE member concerning illegal funding of political parties, trade in influence, bribery. But it is certainly a place where the 'poor moment' for policy and the crisis can be exploited to make these measures more effective and to make the policy more transparent and fairer. As a result, we have made a draft based on the proposals made by the ERJK itself to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and a presentation by the Chancellor of Justice to the Riigikogu in 2017. It is quite thorough and also beautiful technical, but I certainly call on the Riigikogu to deal with it quickly so that we can resolve this issue and the new government can start working in such a way that this black bomb of corruption does not hang on its leg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U122	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U123	All right, my dear Riigikogu! Times are tough, but also Estonians can be tough, once said Lennart Meri. And what happened on Tuesday night against Wednesday when, in essence, labour migration between Estonia and Finland stopped, the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia also forces the Riigikogu to take rapid and resolute steps. 29 On behalf of the members of the Riigikogu, who represent the four political groups of the Riigikogu, the Reform Party, the Social Democrats, the Fatherland and the EKRE factions, I give a draft address to the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia to the President of the Republic of Finland. In this we recognise our countries' cooperation so far in the fight against corona virus, but we call on the representative of the people of the Republic of Finland to support for its part the idea that two countries should be able to agree among themselves on measures to combat the spread of the corona virus in cross-border movements in such a way that our labour migrants retain the real possibility of cross-border movement. We remember from the first stage of the spread of the virus when Finland actually closed down labour migration, how many survivors and, above all, psychological problems, but also practical problems, it caused thousands and thousands of Estonian families and good men and women who had to choose for an indefinite period of time, whether to keep their jobs or to be with their families. Dear friends! I hope that this bill will be processed without delay. I hope that it will soon be on the agenda of Parliament's plenary, in my opinion it should be next week. That is why I call on the Committee on Foreign Affairs to meet in an extraordinary way tomorrow, to put this draft on the agenda and to make the decisions that the Estonian people, who are demanding but benevolent, expect from us to defend their interests. Thank you, friends.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U124	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted a draft law and a draft referral. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, get your attention! Messages. Today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be an inauguration meeting in this Chamber of Alexei Navalny and other support groups for the release of political prisoners from the Russian Federation, convened by Urmas Reinsalu. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U125	90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 11. Clarification of the agenda. Aivar Sõerd, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will present the Commission's presentation at the debate on today's first item, the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U126	We can now go to today's agenda. We have one item on the agenda, the second reading of the draft Act 239 amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like Mr Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be the rapporteur for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U127	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Since we had the first reading of this draft here on 30 September last year, I would also briefly go over the content of this draft, perhaps it has slipped away in the meantime. Its content is that the amendments to the VAT Directive of the European Union, which change the taxation of e-commerce between Member States and abolish the exemption for imports of small consignments with a value of up to EUR 22, are essentially transposed. Three special VAT arrangements are introduced. The first time concerns VAT on services, intra-Community distance sales and the sale of goods via an online trading venue, the second special scheme for distance sales of goods imported from a non-Community country and the third special scheme for the declaration and payment of VAT on imported goods. The special schemes extend the arrangements already introduced in 2015 for electronic communications services and electronically supplied services to other services with a place of circulation in another Member State and to intra-Community distance sales, and introduce similar special arrangements for distance sales of goods imported from a non-Community country. The draft also simplifies the VAT burden on imports of small consignments. The amendments remove the existing intra-Community thresholds for distance sales and establish a uniform tax liability threshold of EUR 10000 for intra-Community distance sales of goods across the European Union in another country. As I said earlier, the exemption from VAT on goods of low value imported from a non-Community country (up to EUR 22) will be abolished. In addition, specific provisions are laid down for persons who make distance sales of goods possible through online trading venues. Okay. The procedure was then, as I said, that we had a first reading on 30 September last year and an amendment was tabled by the deadline for tabling amendments, which was on 14 October. After the first reading, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft on 27 October last year and on 11, 12 and 18 January this year. This one proposal, which was received by us by 14 October, had been tabled by Mr Tarmo Kruusimäe and its content was to extend the VAT exemption to retraining and further training corresponding to certain professional features. A more detailed explanation is given in the list of amendments. What about it? The author of the amendment highlighted the maritime and rescue training provided by Reval Maritime School and the Maritime Academy in the debate held on 27 October and referred to the practice of taxation in Latvia. If I remember correctly, the initiator also stressed that this is particularly important when we are talking about bringing ships under the flag of Estonia. Okay. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance of Marek Uusküla and Sirje Pulk suddenly said that the proposed wording could have an impact of EUR 8.8 million and has not been included in the budget. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance also added that the taxation of maritime and maritime rescue training highlighted in the training test has been discussed with Latvian colleagues as well as colleagues from other Member States. A reference was made to the websites of the Finnish and British Ministry of Finance, which show that their companies providing similar services tax the service on value added tax (VAT). However, Latvia has gone on different routes and has not been taxed. The representatives of the Ministry also said that this issue was to be discussed at EU level and, after listening to the views of the Member States, the European Commission could provide guidance on how to apply the VAT exemption to such training services. Within this framework, the practice of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania could be harmonised. All 11 members of the Monetary Commission opposed this amendment. It is therefore not to be voted on. Okay. However, on the initiative or on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, the Commission made five other amendments to this draft. Amendment 2 concerns the determination of the taxable value of the consignment to be imported and the amendment brings the wording of the draft into line with the wording of the directive to be transposed. Amendment 3: half a year is postponed to the date of entry into force of the VAT refund on the hopeless debts proposed by the draft, as the state budget for 2021 simply did not find money for this kind of thing. Amendment 4 concerns the conditions for implementing one of the special schemes. Again, the wording of the draft is aligned with the wording of the directive to be transposed. Amendment 5 sets out more clearly and sets out more precisely the list of persons entitled to apply one of the special schemes. Pursuant to the Directive, the choice of Estonia as the country to implement the special scheme is binding on the taxable person in the calendar year in which the special scheme was introduced and in the two subsequent calendar years. The content of Amendment 6 was that, in order to avoid technical inconsistencies, a provision which is already contained in a directly applicable EU regulation is excluded from the draft. Okay. Ah, there was another issue, it concerned another amendment requested by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which was to be drafted through the Commission. This concerned the VAT treatment of bus and coach transport, in fact, the VAT tax treatment of the amount of the subsidy included in the value of the taxable service. We had this debate on 27 October. On the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, it was possible to amend the draft with an amendment whereby all ad hoc subsidies would be included in the taxable value of the goods and services in the future. This would mainly concern municipal transport subsidies. The purpose of this proposal was to bring national VAT legislation into line with EU law. On the amendment, a notice of opposition and a protest was sent by the Association of Cities and Municipalities as well as by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This change would have brought EUR 35 million to the state budget, but the same costs would have been borne by municipalities and other buyers of such subsidised services. We had an in-depth debate. We also dealt with the protests that came from an alliance of cities and rural municipalities. And then, at one point, in November, more specifically, on 17 November, the Minister of Finance sent us a letter saying that he would withdraw from this initiative or this proposal and withdraw his proposal. However, this does not solve the problem because the mismatch between the directive and national law remains, just the solution of the problem was postponed. The Commission took procedural decisions in a consensual manner. First, to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is completed, to place the draft on the agenda on 10 February and also to hold a final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U128	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U129	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I do not want to talk about this VAT right now, but since you were talking about cross-border distance sales or that, as a member of the Commission, you do not feel that the national ban on e-commerce in some sectors is a disincentive to business? I will simply give an example that it is not possible to order goods related to e-cigarettes in Estonia, it is a national decision. At the same time, we can order alcohol and tobacco. It feels like it's all right. Do we knowingly prefer hardcore offenders to less dangerous products?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U130	Yes, the changes introduced in these aspects actually comply with the rules set up by the European Union, i.e. this directive will apply throughout the Community and just these provisions of the directive will now be introduced into our national law. However, perhaps the most important change in this whole VAT history, once again introduced across the European Union, concerns the taxation of shipments of less than EUR 22. We know that we have had price manipulations in relation to distance sales in China for years. The value of the goods is simply shown as being artificially lower. It also creates a competitive advantage, with large Chinese distance selling corporations benefiting from an advantage compared to those trading on the domestic market. This prevention of price manipulation is the basic content of this directive, but as far as these tobacco products are concerned, I do not know these nuances. I don't know exactly what to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U131	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U132	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The procedure in the Committee on Monetary Affairs has indeed been lengthy. I'm really glad you gave such a thorough report, which really reminds me of what we're talking about. I'm going to ask you more, just in terms of magnitude, what is the budgetary impact? Then the rest of the hall will understand how much we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U133	Thank you. I can't remember it by heart, but these effects should be shown in the explanatory memorandum. For example, the abolition of the very EUR 22 low value tax exemption has been said to have a positive effect on the change. But what it means to the budget, that, I think, we have to look up in the explanatory memorandum. I can't find it right now. But there are, of course, more effects. Here, too, on the IT developments of the Tax and Customs Board, it has been said that the IT costs of the tax administration are increasing. Okay. Here is the impact of the changes on VAT receipts. The assessment is based on the assumption that intra-Community distance sales to Estonia are higher than sales from Estonia. The net impact of the change in the rules on taxation of distance sales within the Community is small for Estonia, but estimated to be positive, almost 0.15 million euros. Okay. But now it's... Ah, there is, then, the effect of abolishing this EUR 22 [goods] exemption this year, this year, 7 million, next year, 15 million and in 2023, 16 million. So it's pretty big. The impact assessment is based on a forecast of the turnover of postal items by the Ministry of Finance, which is between EUR 70 and 80 million per year. So, as I was saying, these price manipulations were like a negative sign for the budget, but now it has a positive impact on the budget. But as I said, it is also cost-related, it is the IT development costs of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U134	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U135	Thank you. I would like to congratulate you, Aivar, on your good, professional, sparkly presentation and to join in the praises Riina has said. The question was also raised with regard to this postponement to 1 July with regard to the entry into force of the Directive: There is nothing embarrassing and deplorable in itself that people want to order goods, gadgets, cheap, interesting things from third countries, there is nothing wrong with it, and there is nothing condemnable about it. My question is that when ordering small things too, people in customs are going to have a lot, a huge risk of formalisation and other issues. It has been said at the Commission's level that implementation on 1 July will ultimately lead to the possibility for large online goods providers to automate less manual work and riot with it. Is this issue clearly resolved now? Are we convinced both of the functioning of our national customs authorities and of the practice of implementing this directive on a European scale?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U136	Yes, we briefly addressed this issue in the Commission. The explanation given to us by the Ministry of Finance seemed convincing; this transitional period is enough for the Tax and Customs Board to prepare these changes, to explain them. So we found it convincing that this transition period could be sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U137	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U138	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Does this directive also concern pornographic products and is it compatible with the Postal Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U139	We did not address this in the Commission. But ex-third countries bring in all kinds of garbage. I think, as far as I can tell, that touches or affects stuff like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U140	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U141	Again, I agree with Aivar. The Commission does not have to deal with all kinds of issues, especially those that the previous speaker asked about. Let some things be arranged for the darkest flows of life, and they will be dealt with. But my question was not about how the Estonian customs authorities can technically handle the entry into force of this directive, but it was about that when I order from American Amazon, for example, I already have this whole duty included in this price. I'll buy it, I've paid for it, and American Amazon will sort it out if this duty goes into pan-European logic. The fact that people across Europe have less mutiny in this logic, because the most annoying stage, in addition to the fact that people naturally do not like to pay a little more, is a paper business in customs. This is the issue that the Commission really had to negotiate with the world's largest online sales platforms. Where have we gotten to?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U142	Yeah. This is what these special schemes concern. There are a number of special arrangements that should go in there, and the meaning of their content or their special arrangements is, among other things, that this whole process is simplified. I understood that, in this sense, we are still moving in a positive, right direction with the transposition of this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U143	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U144	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission also discuss that, for a very large number of goods coming from third countries, the customs declaration has already been underdeclared by these large online shops, i.e. quite a number of Chinese widgets have in fact already been declared knowingly below this limit even now? How can it be ensured that the same system does not continue and, in fact, the system is simply being fooled? How is it possible, in fact, to control this massive amount of shipments currently coming from third countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U145	Yeah. In fact, verification by the Tax and Customs Board is random, based on a risk analysis. However, one step in order to control this situation in any way or to introduce equal conditions of competition is the same abolition of VAT exemption on imports of small consignments of less than EUR 22. As far as price manipulation is concerned, this directive also imposes obligations on those platforms that are here between Alibaba and the final consumer. There must be someone here in Estonia who is an intermediary in this link. This link shall also be subject to the obligation to monitor it or to assume responsibility for ensuring that the price indicated in the declaration corresponds to the fair value or the actual price.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U146	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U147	Thank you. Good Aivar! You're very good at explaining a technically complex subject. I fully agree that, when we are talking, for example, about declaring duty or VAT, it is a complex task for a single customer, but for a platform for which it is a standard activity, it is an automated process. Just as we actually discussed in the Commission that platforms can offer their customers the possibility that taxes have already been calculated, paid, the declarations fulfilled. If you're a good customer, the client doesn't have to work too hard. But I'd ask you that again. We have discussed that platforms will exchange information with tax administrations. Yes, it certainly does not concern all platforms, rather those that are physically present in Europe with a company. But, in conjunction with the implementation of this directive, it could result in this information being transferred to tax administrations, supervision in this sense is improving, such tax gaps are being reduced and, ultimately, both tax behaviour is improving and budget receipts may increase more than forecast. How do you feel about this? Is that a logical scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U148	Yes, to the intermediary on the spot of the service through which the goods move to the final consumer, this directive imposes an obligation on the Tax and Customs Board to provide information about these transactions. It is an instrument or measure that ensures that the tax authorities can also better control these transactions, and a better overview of what is happening. Ultimately, taxation in this whole area will become regular, verifiable and ensure fair competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U149	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U150	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of the Republic, guardians! This is my question about pornographic products, because it is simply not allowed in the Postal Law. At the same time, perhaps people who are not very ashamed that there is pornography and such products know that they can be ordered from Estonia and elsewhere. So we have laws that just don't work or that's gotten in the way of their time. But still, we always think that everything is somehow in the best condition and sort of. The concept of pornography, as we have already looked at here a few sessions, lives in its own time. According to the country that occupied us, the band Sex Pistols was pornography, today maybe we all understand that it was actually the creator of a new direction in music. But this is not what I wanted to talk about, but what I wanted to talk about is this amendment that I made to the Commission, which was an exemption from VAT on further training and retraining training, which was also a fixed important moment for it to be maritime, transport and energy-related. I read this sentence: "The amendment motivates companies and workers in the maritime sector and internationally active wind energy and maritime transport, as defined by the Government of the Republic as a priority area, to seek additional and re-training services in accordance with international standards, not from Latvia and Lithuania, where the service is more affordable so far due to the lack of VAT. " We have had such disputes with the officials of the Ministry of Finance on previous occasions when they argued in a completely different way, they gave example, as was the case here, of England and Finland when we are talking about Latvia and Lithuania. But why not, we can also bring in Portugal, for example, and perhaps Switzerland, right, so what does the Swiss Maritime Academy think about it? I want to tell you that there is quite a loss of tax in the case of further training and retraining. In fact, the Tax Administration could inform the Ministry of Finance that any OÜ that names itself "training" should not receive this [tax exemption]. However, some of the exemptions are granted and others who actually apply do not receive them. However, if it is really important for us to bring ships under the flag of Estonia, then we must do something for the shore sector so that we are competitive in this region, not that we are told what is in England or where there is something else. It was a cross-party decision that we would do our utmost to make our maritime affairs rise, not that we are looking again for this 'but'. I'd say no to the word "but," 'cause there's gonna be some bullshit going on. Why can't you do anything about it? Therefore, I think we should review the priority training and retraining for us, all the more so than they already meet international standards. For example, if an OÜ, who is actually just a hairdresser's salon, is it the right subject or would it be Reval Maritime School or Maritime Academy? This is a point for the new coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-27_U151	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. Six amendments to the draft have been tabled; we will examine them together. The first amendment tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe is the view of the commission. The proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is the position of the commission of directors to take full account of. The third amendment is tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment, as well as the position proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, of the lead committee, is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, takes full account of the position of the commission. The sixth amendment, as proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is to take full account of the position of the commission. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 239. Second reading is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, since we do not have any more items on today's agenda, today's sitting is also closed. See you tomorrow!
