ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We've been hit by sad news. Lt-Gen Johannes Kert, a member of the Riigikogu, unexpectedly left us. We offer our condolences to his loved ones. Let's think about him and thank him with a minute's silence. [[The silence of grief.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the Monday session of the 7th working week of the V session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U2	On 6 March, Tiiu Aro, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, joined the Riigikogu following the end of the mandate of Johannes Kerd. Next, we will hear his oath. Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U3	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U4	So, ladies and gentlemen, as always, we will begin by handing over drafts and enquiries. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of me and Sven Sester, Üllar Saaremäe, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Priit Sibula and Helir-Valdor Seeder, I'm going to give you one question. This concerns the decision taken last week by the government on the granting of emergency citizenship. The Estonian Citizenship Act provides for the principle that Estonian citizenship is not given to repeatedly punished criminals by naturalisation. However, last week the government considered it possible to grant citizenship exceptionally to a person who has committed three criminal offences on the territory of the Russian Federation. Our question is motivated by what were the motives and reasons of the government to make such an extraordinary decision that departs from the principles of our citizenship policy. It is undoubtedly our interest to find out who the person [who received the citizenship] is and what the crimes for which he was punished and despite which the government considered it possible to grant him Estonian citizenship exceptionally. We hope that the Estonian Minister of the Interior will be able to come and defend this political decision of the government, which departs from the current principles of granting Estonian citizenship, before the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U6	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I would like to hand over two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Both of the draft decisions of the Riigikogu have been transmitted digitally to the board, but here I will briefly present their content. The first of these concerns the proposal of the Committee on the Environment to recall members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation Merry Aart and Priit Sibul and to appoint Annely Akkermann and Martin Repinski as new members of the Supervisory Board. The second draft decision that I wish to pass on on on behalf of the Committee on the Environment is of similar content. This is a draft decision of the Riigikogu to recall Andres Metsoja, a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre, and to appoint Yoko Alender, a member of the Riigikogu as a new member of the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U8	Thank you. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and eight other members of the Isamaa Group, Raivo Tamme, Mikhail Lotman, Urmas Reinsalu, Andres Metsoja, Priit Sibula, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Üllar Saaremäe and Tarmo Kruusimäe, I am going to hand over the question to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. This is mainly about crisis information and its classification. It took a long time for the Prime Minister to start sending information to members of the Riigikogu at one point. He initially did so selectively, sending information to the chairmen of the political parties, to the political group leaders and to the chairmen of the committees. We drew attention to this and asked for it to be extended to all members of the Riigikogu. At some point, information was accepted and started to be sent to all members of the Riigikogu. However, we note that there is a major difference between the previous time and the spring of last year. Even then, at that moment, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas was not wearing the information given under the leadership of the AK, or official use. Right now, we're paying attention. This does not give us the opportunity to discuss as members of the Riigikogu with experts and analysts, to draw our own conclusions, to propose new ways of dealing with the virus. We want to know what gave rise to a specific AK mark. Why is such secrecy required for non-personal data? In addition, we want information on possible future joint procurements and existing joint procurements of the European Union in relation to vaccination. What steps will the current head of government take to cope with the epidemic? All these questions are written in our inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U10	Thank you. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U11	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law supplementing the Electricity Market Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. And second, the bill to amend the law on atmospheric air protection. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Environment. Both drafts have been sent to the Riigikogu electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U12	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and two inquiries. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U13	92 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 9. We will proceed to the approval of this week's agenda by the Riigikogu. I shall vote on the approval of the agenda for the 7th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U14	There are 84 members of the Riigikogu, there are no votes against and 1 member of the Riigikogu is impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U15	We will go to the first item on today's agenda on 8 March, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will remind you of the rules of procedure. The presentation of the representative of the commission is up to 20 minutes, and any member of the Riigikogu may ask him two questions, the length of which is one minute. Then there will be negotiations, 5 + 3 minutes. And then there will be other procedures, amendments, etc. I would first like to ask Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to be the rapporteur for this chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and other laws was in this Chamber at first reading on 17 February. The draft initiated by the Government of the Republic aims to make changes to the regulation of the termination of enforcement proceedings and, in this respect, to a number of other laws. The substantive objective is to facilitate the closure of enforcement proceedings. As usual, it was possible to give an opinion on the draft and submit proposals. This opportunity was used by the Association of Estonian Judges, the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators, the Association of Estonian Credit Management Companies, one of the attorneys of the Estonian Bar Association and the Association of Estonian Debt Counselors. The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with them on 25 February. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice, Gunnar Vaikmaa, Vaike Murumets and Kairit Kirsipuu, participated in the discussion. Representatives of the bailiffs and the Bankruptcy Administrators Koja, the Estonian Association of Debt Advisers and the Julianus Group participated in the meeting of the Commission. Five amendments to this draft were received at the bottom of the opinions and proposals and two amendments which are not directly related to the subject. The first five proposals were the subject of a longer debate at the Commission meeting. I will only mark a few issues where professional lawyers representing mainly the parties involved took part in the debate. For example, the creditors' representative argued that this draft only favours the activities of bailiffs and leaves the interests of creditors unprotected. At the same time, it was admitted that it was in the interests of peace of law that the procedure would end at some point, but that it would have to be clearly regulated. The Estonian Credit Management Company Association had two proposals to complete the draft: the first proposal was not to include in the draft the provision that the bailiff's remuneration would be valid for another ten years [after the expiry of the creditor's claim], and the second proposal was that if the debtor had a payment schedule, those payment schedules and agreements that had been concluded with the debtor would not be broken down for more than 10 years. The representative of the Ministry, Vaikmaa, explained that bailiffs are not treated as privileged by this bill, nor is the main purpose of the bill to save the courts from the burden. However, the aim is that, if the conditions for the discharge of enforcement proceedings are met, this would be possible. The Estonian Association of Debt Advisors pointed out that paying 50% of the basic fee to bailiffs in the event of an expiry of claims is too high a percentage for debtors. The object of the drafters was that each enforcement case has an estimated cost, covering both staff and operational costs. If the executioner has been dealing with the enforcement case for ten years, he could charge 50% of the basic fee. The executor will, of course, have discretion. The Ministry's calculations show that 50% of the basic fee covers these costs. It has not been taken into account that a performer should make a profit. The representative of the Ministry also informed the parties that the insolvency review was currently preparing a draft concerning the insolvency of natural persons and that there were changes to the shortening of time limits. According to the author of the draft act, a representative of the Ministry of Justice, feedback from the courts shows that the changes made to this draft act provide clarity. And despite some of the opinions that the receipt of each amount in enforcement proceedings interrupts the ten-year deadline and starts the new ten-year deadline, the law should not be interpreted in this way. It was added that the enforcement procedure is a very formalised procedure comparable to the application for an order for payment in urgent proceedings. This was confirmed by Mrs. Vaice Murumets. A very professional debate lasted over an hour at the Commission. Following an in-depth discussion, the chairman of the committee, Mr Karilaid, proposed that the amendments be examined. Amendments 1 and 6 are interrelated and discussed together. The first changes the title of the draft, the new title is "Law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and other Acts." Counsellor of the Committee on Legal Affairs Linnar Liivamägi explained that one paragraph was included in the draft which was not related to the amendment of the Code of Enforcement Procedure. This is a technical amendment because it has been decided in principle that the amendment to the Fire Safety Act will be included in this draft. This same amendment 6 also led to a change in the title of the draft, and it also amends the law on fire safety, if more precise. The representative of the Ministry explained the need for this change. You may also find it interesting to know that the construction project is currently being prepared by a fire safety expert. At the same time, a number of authorised architects (level 7) and authorised architect-experts (level 8) have the knowledge and skills to prepare the fire safety section themselves. In such a case, coordination of the fire safety component of the construction project would remain operational for the fire safety expert. This is a clarification allowing for different forms of cooperation to improve the quality of construction projects. In addition, the definitions are harmonised: the term "industrial and warehouse buildings' is used in the future instead of the current term "industrial and manufacturing buildings'. Amendment 2 concerns the procedure for terminating the enforcement procedure in the event of an expiry of the requirement. For example, the bailiff shall examine the debtor's application within 30 days of receipt of the application and, within seven days of the examination, take a decision on the closure of the proceedings or inform the parties of the continuation of the proceedings without taking a decision. The conditions for the transfer of funds received by the bailiff to the person collecting the bank account shall also be specified. Proposal No 3. It specifies the rules for examining a debtor's application before a court, if the debtor requests the termination of enforcement proceedings due to the expiry of the claim. Since, in cases without an action, the court can apply the original legal protection only in the cases provided for by law, this supplement is necessary. Amendment 4 concerns the law of the bailiff, namely the fee payable for the review of the application for limitation of the claim. The bailiff is known to be entitled to charge EUR 15 for the examination of the debtor's application. Upon termination of enforcement proceedings due to the expiry of the period of enforcement, the bailiff shall have the right to claim from the debtor the basic fee for up to half of the amount not recovered. The purpose of the amendment is to establish a "up to half' discretion for the bailiff in the event of the termination of the procedure [in determining the amount of the basic fee]. At the same time, the Chamber of Bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators considers that the EUR 15 fee for the examination of the application does not cover the actual costs. They proposed aligning this fee with the state fee so that the fee would amount to EUR 30. The Ministry of Justice did not support this proposal and no one in the Commission called for a vote. Amendment 5 ensures that the longer period for the review of the application granted to the bailiff also applies to applications submitted to the bailiff before and including 6 April. The wording originally proposed in the draft did not allow this. And Amendment 7 seeks to change the date of entry into force of the law, with a new date including 1 April. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 8 March, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 10 March and that the final vote be taken. All these Commission decisions were consensual. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U17	Thank you, good waitress. Looks like you don't have any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U18	Very nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U19	Is there a wish to open negotiations? It seems that there is no wish for negotiations either. Then we will go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal of the lead committee: take full account. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal of the lead committee: take full account. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal of the lead committee: take full account. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal of the commission: take full account. The seventh amendment is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal of the lead committee: take full account. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 315. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U20	We will proceed to the next items on the agenda. We have two questions today. The first is an inquiry into vaccination submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, Kalle Grünthal, Jaak Valge, Paul Puustusmaa, Mart Helme, Peeter Ernitsa, Reuben Kaalepi, Riho Breiveli, Helle-Moonika Helme, Rene Koka, Martin Helme, Henn Põljaasa, Urmas Reitelmann, Leo Kunnase, Siim Pohlak, Uno Kaskpeiti and Merry Aarti on 8 February 2021 (No 48). Before I give the chair to the representative of the heirs, I remind you of the procedure for answering questions. First of all, the representative of the heirs will be speaking, speaking from the remote for up to 5 minutes. This is followed by the minister's reply, up to 15 minutes, and after that, any member of the Riigikogu may submit one oral question to the addressees, the time for which is one minute. Then the negotiations begin, 5 + 3 minutes. I would first like to ask the representative of the heirs, Mr Kert Kingo, member of the Riigikogu. Please! He's on the Internet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We submitted an inquiry into the vaccination plan to Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige. During the last days of January, the activities qualifying as medical corruption came to the public: acquaintances of hospital drivers, members of hospital councils, Russian Consul General of Narva and Chancellor Marika of the Ministry of Social Affairs, took advantage of the vaccination plan and placed themselves in a privileged position by introducing a coronal vaccine. I would point out that according to the vaccination plan prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs against COVID-19, confirmed at the Government's Cabinet meeting on 15 December 2020, vaccination is given priority to people and other risk groups who ensure the continuity of health and social care services. These include health professionals and people working in healthcare institutions, workers and residents of care institutions, and all people over 70 years of age and people with a certain diagnosis. Since, according to any vaccination plan, neither the vaccination plan of 15 December 2020 nor the 19 January 2021 vaccination plan, hospitals' drivers, hospital council members, their friends and acquaintances, diplomatic corps staff, nor the Ministry's Chancellor Marika Prisks are among those who are entitled to receive the vaccine as a matter of priority, these persons constitute a preferential vaccination, which was made possible by the position of those persons and the associated influence. In this regard, we want answers to questions. On the basis of which basic document did vaccination take place as a matter of priority for the acquaintances of hospital drivers, members of the hospital council and the Russian Consul General of Narva? Based on which basic document did Chancellor Marika Priske of the Ministry of Social Affairs give priority to vaccination? With whose permission or consent did the distribution of vaccines take place? Who decided to give vaccines to these individuals? Why were the vaccine doses allegedly left over not followed by the second step in the vaccination plan, which provided for vaccination to be given to frontier workers and providers of vital services with a higher risk of infection (within the meaning of the Emergency Act)? Was the Minister aware of this priority and non-vaccinating vaccines and vaccinations? When did the Minister find out about these vaccinations? Has the Minister identified whether and what Chancellor Marika Prisk promised in exchange for the vaccine? How and who is responsible for the violation of the vaccination plan approved by the government and the use of the position and the associated authority to obtain the vaccine as a matter of priority? And lastly, we want to know how the Minister intends to deal with medical corruption in his jurisdiction? We would like an answer from the Minister to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U22	Thank you. I'd like to ask for a chair of speech to be answered by Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U23	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will take turns answering these questions. First of all, the first question concerned the documents on the basis of which vaccinations were carried out by acquaintances of hospital drivers, members of the hospitals' councils and the Russian Consul General of Narva. In any case, I would like to congratulate healthcare professionals who have vaccinated more than 100,000 people at their first dose to date, and some 40,000 others have also received a second dose. I have seen that in the new ranking, Estonia has reached fifth place in the European Union from the speed of vaccination. This basic document, which has been discussed a great deal, is the COVID-19 vaccination plan, a document developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was also approved by the Government of the Republic, as it is clearly an important issue of quite wide-ranging state life. The coordination of immunisation required to prevent the spread of the virus at all is the task of the Ministry of Social Affairs, pursuant to the law, and consequently the Ministry prepared the COVID-19 vaccination plan as a code of conduct. This was done in particular in cooperation with several health actors, health authorities, hospital and medical representatives, the National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis and other related parties. On 15 December, the plan was also approved by the Government. This has been improved later, depending on the situation. From the outset, it had been agreed that this plan could never be a stoned document in a situation where new vaccines receive weekly marketing authorisations and new information on delivery schedules, various recommendations, instructions etc. The main focus of the vaccination plan was indeed to identify the risk groups that will be given priority vaccination, as well as the service providers, in particular health and social care, who will be vaccinated before others, and what will be the subsequent order of vaccination of frontier workers at higher risk of infection. The main aim of vaccination is, of course, to save as many lives as possible, to avoid the excessive burden on hospitals and thereby to protect public health. The day-to-day management of vaccination, the gradual inclusion of target groups, the establishment of a weekly distribution plan and the renewal and implementation of the same plan, in accordance with new, ever-changing information, shall be coordinated by the COVID-19 vaccination steering group in cooperation with the National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis and, more broadly, in cooperation with hundreds of health authorities across the country. The Vaccination Management Group includes representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre, the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and the medical staff of North and South Estonia. The Committee of Experts on Immunoprophylaxis, in turn, is always an advisory body for the Ministry of Social Affairs on the same immunisation plan as for other immunisation plans, which includes representatives of a wide range of professionals, i.e. sectoral experts. The use of COVID-19 vaccines will take into account the size of the priority target groups designated by the Committee on Immunoprophylaxis, as well as regional and regional characteristics, infection characteristics, the characteristics of the vaccines available and, of course, the guidelines of the Government of the Republic itself. This is the case when we are talking, for example, about prioritising the queue of frontline workers, as has been done during both the previous and the current government. On the basis of the basic document, the Ministry of Social Affairs' chancellor's vaccination was asked. Vaccination in general, as I referred to earlier, is based on the same document, but for each dose of vaccine, the vaccination body must always consider who and for what reason to vaccinate. Of course, it must follow the COVID-19 vaccination plan, the country's recommendations and priorities, as well as the fact that no vaccine dose will be lost. If the possibility of vaccination is offered to a person who is not a target person, but it is precisely to prevent the loss of the vaccine that is in itself in line with the guidelines, because, as I referred to, it is always better to use the vaccine than to waste it. Due to our strong interest in the use of vaccine doses, we have provided additional instructions specifically to the parties planning vaccination on the principles of reducing vaccine loss, i.e. the order in which and which people should be invited to be vaccinated when it is evident that some vaccine doses cannot be used during the period of use, such as someone who has not arrived, something happens, more doses are obtained from one vial than originally planned. From the beginning, hospitals and other health care establishments have been instructed not only to vaccinate health professionals, but all those who are important for the functioning of this health care facility, i.e. those who work there. It's also literally in the vaccination plan. In particular, the hospital's own risk analysis and assessments must be taken into account. This relates to the human resources department or administration, the management. Whether a high-risk group is included in the hospital's own view of the council or not is a matter for the hospitals themselves. There are 20 hospitals in Estonia that belong to the hospital network. There have been different practices, true. But we trust our health authorities in making these choices. Of course, the guideline was earlier, and it is also today that priority should always be given to vaccine frontline workers who are in direct contact with COVID-19 patients, but also gradually other parties, namely those who are essential for the functioning of the hospital. The vaccination plan was drawn up on the basis of available information at the time. As you probably know and remember, it was initially the knowledge that each vial of Pfizer/BioNTech delivers five doses, but quite quickly it became clear that six doses can be obtained with good dosing and correct needles. Sometime later, at the request of the manufacturer, the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) changed the original SPC and confirmed six doses for each vial, after which the guidelines for health care institutions were amended. The recommendation was then, and is also today, that if, for any reason, the doses in the open-label vial are to be used quickly, for example in the case of Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna within six hours, because they are very time-critical, then a person should be found who is ready to come immediately for vaccination to prevent the vaccine from going to waste. The decision to vaccinate not only health care professionals if possible, but also to ensure the continuity of the hospital, its managers, members of the staff, including members of the supervisory board, was made already in December, according to the Chairman of the Management Board of the North Estonian Regional Hospital, as the board members were seen as part of the hospital staff who may need to be present at the hospital during the pandemic. Indeed, the crisis headquarters of PERH offered the possibility of vaccination to all members of the Council, in particular on the basis of the fact that they have frequent contacts with the employees of PERH, including management, crisis headquarters, various doctors and other staff. It should be taken into account that the board includes, among other things, people who do daily medical work. It will then be asked whose authorisation and consent the vaccine was distributed and who has decided to distribute the vaccine to the persons mentioned above. A little I've already answered, basically repeating that the vaccination decision is always made by the health care provider. Perhaps now that about 102000 people have received the first vaccine dose and some of the second vaccine dose in Estonia, it is not conceivable that the list of people to be vaccinated should go through the table of one person, but should be carried out on a health institution basis, in particular on the basis of the government's plan. [This means taking into account] risk groups and diagnosis, health care professionals, social welfare workers, other health care professionals, now more and more internal security and education workers, as well as younger risk groups, due to the addition of the AstraZeneca vaccine. We have always stressed, as I pointed out, that all doses of vaccine must be used to prevent the vaccine from disappearing. Unfortunately, there have been few times when the vaccine has been wasted, but mostly it has been observed. The effectiveness of the use of vaccines in Estonia has been quite high. Perhaps there have been only a few cases of a vaccine dose of nearly 200,000 now reached Estonia when, for example, due to transport or misdosing, the vaccine has been lost. But fortunately, these have all been exceptional cases, not so-called widespread. In fact, the same answer applies to the other health establishments described here, whether it concerns what happened at the Ida-Viru Central Hospital or what happened at Valga Hospital. Maybe it's been a health care professional's decision. When we are talking about the case of Valga Hospital, it really came out of the vaccination plan, because it was no longer about the staff of the health care facility, but about people outside the hospital environment, from outside the health care facility. Maybe it was people who don't go to the hospital every day, they don't come into contact with it every day, they don't take the lead. In their case, it could indeed be said that this conflicted with the vaccination plan. As regards vaccination of the Narva Consul, there is currently a procedure underway by the Health Board, which will result in the clarification of the circumstances. As far as I know, having been in contact with the managers of the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, the hospital leaders were not aware that such vaccination was carried out by their health care professional. These circumstances are identified by the Health Board in cooperation with the hospital. You will then ask why the reported excess doses did not follow the step in the vaccination plan, i.e. they did not vaccinate frontier workers and vital service providers with a higher risk of infection. For frontier workers at higher risk of infection and critical service providers, it should be taken into account that their mapping started at the end of December when we sent requests to ministries and local authorities to find out the order of magnitude, which is why these lists were not yet available at that time. These lists did not come back to us until the end of January; they were gradually clarified. The plan was initially to reach the vaccination of frontier workers in March-April, but we started this earlier than we were talking about more infectious frontier workers outside health care and care homes. We started earlier because, in the case of the AstraZeneca vaccine, the Estonian National Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis, like many other countries, decided to set an age limit for its use: it vaccinates people up to 70 years of age. This automatically meant that we had more vaccine to use. Currently, the principle is that two thirds of AstraZeneca's vaccine goes to younger risk groups and one third goes to frontline workers, such as social, internal security and education, and later to the next groups of frontier workers. But those groups didn't inevitably exist at the time. The lists had not been drawn up, since the original plan provided for some time later, in principle only this month or the following month. It was also a question of whether I was aware of these vaccinations, of the distribution of vaccines. In itself, I very much agree that all such information must be open, it must be public, it must be transparent. As a rule, this is the case in Estonia. We have a small country, all cases are brought out one by one and discussed thoroughly. And, of course, it is important that any choice requires the health institution itself to be able to justify why it made such a decision. I have asked the authorities and indeed they have justified it. As I pointed out before, the list of people to be vaccinated does not go through the table of one person, even the minister's table, that would not be possible. Firstly, it is a health record and, secondly, it is a rather bureaucratic procedure, I imagine. I am more than convinced that over 99% of the vaccines have gone exactly as they should, to the right place, at the right time. There have been so-called residual dose cases, there have been situations where no one has arrived and spare lists have been needed, indeed, but these are, as a rule, exceptions. The system has become more and more operational, health care establishments have back-up lists and backup mechanisms are in place. I guess with some vaccines, it's easier. For example, if you have the AstraZeneca vaccine, which is also stored in an open vial under normal refrigerator conditions for 48 hours, you will clearly have more time than if you have a vial heated from the deep-frozen form to the normal temperature, such as the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, which has been dissolved and has been dispensed in six doses and for which half of the vial should be used within six hours. I'm sure there's a difference. Surely there is always a lesson to be learned from these cases, exceptions. From now on, efforts should be made to avoid them at best and, if the issue raises a great many questions, it would be more sensible, for example, to carry out vaccinations concerning the hospital board, etc., at a later stage. It is also my feedback in the case of Rakvere Hospital that the question was not that the Council had been vaccinated, but that the question was in chronological order. In any case, care should be taken to ensure that there is enough vaccine for the front line workers, i.e. healthcare professionals. They also asked me when I found out about these vaccinations. A letter was sent to me about the former head of Valga Hospital and his correspondence on 7 January. I didn't answer that myself. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Health Area replied, who in turn had a relationship with the Health Board and the specific hospital and the health institution that forwarded the letter. As for the case of the Consul General of Narva, it came to me via the media. This information got to the house a little earlier, and the house was working on it, maybe the day before it had happened. I myself was at the meeting of the cabinet when this information came to me, if I remember correctly. And I wasn't aware of the details of the vaccination of the members of the North Estonian Regional Hospital Council, as it is, as has been said, health data. No hospital needs to tell me how many members of the board have been vaccinated, and neither do the members of the board themselves, because they are personal data. That different hospitals have offered [the possibility of vaccination], I know about my work. Some have offered to all board members, some have, for example, offered on a risk-group basis or on an age-based basis. Some have not yet reached this point, although today there is enough vaccine, so it is certainly possible to vaccinate members of the Council as well as others in a position of importance for the health care institution. How and who is responsible for the alleged violation of the vaccination plan? They're asking about the use of influence. Well, of course, there's no leverage here, so we're still specific and precise. If the North Estonian Regional Hospital offers vaccination to all members of the Council, it is their choice, so they do not violate the vaccination plan and it is not accurate to name it for use of influence. In any case, I believe that any such case must be examined in the context, in particular, to assess the explanations of the health institution itself and the reasons why such a decision has been taken. It is certainly not conceivable that we are going to evaluate 102000 people and, in total, some 140000 vaccinations made today one at a time, whether they were justified or not. Their choice must be made by trusting health care institutions and workers. Looking at the statistics we collect, the percentage of vaccinees in both county and age groups, as well as by institutions, we see that the vaccines go where they are needed. There is also a rapid increase in vaccination in the age group and health care sector over 80 years of age, as well as in the vaccination of people living in nursing homes and their workers. In fact, all of this is reflected in indicators of hospital care that have come down. Now is running out of time, so I will continue to answer questions in the round of questions according to your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U24	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions. First Peter Ernits asks, please! [[Silence.]] Peter Ernits! Can't hear, can't see. [[Silence.]] Looks like Ernitsa's got a connection problem. The picture came up for a second, but it went away again. Maybe in the meantime, we'll take the next question, and if Peter Ernitsa can get in touch with us, he'll have a chance to ask again. Now, please, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U25	Thank you. Dear Minister, Listening to what you're saying, it looks like everything's fine and the vaccination plan is working perfectly. However, one of the services of AS Hoolekandeteenused Valkla Kodu was filed with the Chancellor of Justice by the guardian of the special care home. In early January, the agency's staff had given one of its patients, as well as other patients, a violent injection despite their resolute protest, which was supposed to be an anti-COVID-19 vaccine. To give the injection, the staff of the institution held this person in power, and after the injection he felt very bad. This person asked not to give another injection, but the employees of Valkla Home threatened that if even one person would not be allowed to get vaccinated, no one would be allowed to call out of the department, no one would be allowed to shop until April, and they would be moved to Tallinn, placed in a closed facility for another year...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U27	Question, yes, now. Thank you. Do you not think that it is time for you to take political responsibility and resign, because the forced vaccination of patients is contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U28	Thank you for your question. Indeed, health services are generally provided on a voluntary basis. The exception is coercive treatment, which, for example, concerns psychiatric concerns when a person may be a threat to himself or to others and has already proved it. But this is usually the case when the court is directed, not at the decision of the health institution. I'm not familiar with the details of this case or the details of the alleged case. If there have really been such concerns, the law enforcement authorities will have to check this nursing home, and the Health Board, who supervises the provision of health care, will also have to look at it. I cannot tell you whether or not this particular complaint has been filed with the Health Board and whether it has also been submitted to AS Hoolekandeteenused. As a general rule, when we talk about the residents of a nursing home, they ask for their own care unit in this case, if I correctly understood the preference. And if they have a guardian, then the guardian's assessment of whether or not he wishes or does not want the vaccination of his/her loved one or his/her guardian. No one ever makes those decisions for them. If you look at the level of vaccination of the residents of the nursing home, we'll see that it's 85%. This shows that 15% are people who, for one reason or another, have given up themselves or their loved ones. It's their legal right. But in any case, I would advise you to allow yourself to be vaccinated by anyone who is offered this opportunity, because it certainly protects their life and health.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U29	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns South Estonia and vaccination. There was only a big talk here about the family doctors of Räpina who were given vaccines by force methods. For example, in the municipality of Elva in Tartu, the family doctor has 200 people over 70 years of age on the list, but he has only received 36 doses, and next week he should receive new doses. He doesn't know yet if he's getting those doses or not. How are they shared? Does the fact that South Estonia is less equipped with the vaccine mean that there are fewer sick and infected people in South Estonia? Will we wait until it goes the same way in Northern Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U31	Thank you for your question. I'll start at the beginning. It is well understood that the expectation of vaccines is much greater now than the offer. This is the case across the country, especially, of course, in those areas where the vaccine has reached later, or where it has not yet reached this extent. You rightly pointed out in your question that the original NAP really was based on the logic that those counties where there was a higher incidence of disease, the increased spread of the corona virus: Harjumaa, Ida-Virumaa, Pärnumaa. Family doctors and counties were divided into five groups and different family doctors were able to order vaccines in different weeks. This was for the simple reason that the quantities of vaccine that arrived in Estonia were very small. They're still small, but the winter months were even smaller. Let me give you a simple example. In some weeks, about 10,000 doses of Pfizer/BioNtech vaccine reached Estonia, which had to be distributed between all health care facilities, including hospital needs, nursing homes and the same to family doctors. On the basis that we have 718 family doctors, this means that on average about 12 to 13 doses per list. It is known that one vial contains six doses so that, at best, each family doctor could receive two vials. It was, of course, unreasonable to spread the vaccine like this, and as I pointed out, hospitals and nursing homes also need the vaccine. At that time, 36 doses of vaccine, i.e. six vials, were really distributed and the major centres were first sent to the counties with more infected ones. Gradually, this circle has returned to those who later received it. Currently the deliveries are increasing, in March there will be 14040 doses of Pfizer/BioNtech every week, in addition to Moderna dosages and also the AstraZeneca vaccine. We're expecting an even bigger amount next month. In the case of Pfizer/BioNtech, we are talking about at least 20,000 doses each week. This means that the ability of all doctors to order the vaccine for their members at risk will improve. Today, indeed, there is a situation that can be compared slightly to the labour market, with unemployment and labour shortages at the same time. There are also places where there are plenty of vaccines and people need to be convinced to come and there are places where family doctor centres are waiting for the vaccine and patients want it, but there is just not enough vaccine in the Estonian country. But these concerns gradually ease. In March there will be more vaccines in Estonia than in all winter months. In April, we hope, in turn, to see more than in March, that supplies will improve. Today, what is denied there is a deficit all over the world, a deficit all over the European Union and, unfortunately, a deficit in Estonia as well. That's an honest answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U32	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Your answers to the questions asked here in our inquiry can clearly be concluded that you do not have any insight into the activities of your sub-offices and what happened there. However, you have been a minister in this area for nearly two years now. During this two-year period, the field of work, responsibilities and responsibilities should already have been clarified. Looking at the massive increase in the number of people who are currently infected, do you acknowledge that you cannot do your job and should take political responsibility and resign from the position of minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U34	Thank you for your question. There was more evaluation on this issue, and each of us is right. But each and every one of us comes from, I think, his work primarily from his own field and people's feedback. And what's there to deny, I haven't heard that kind of feedback from people in the healthcare field. This is also a key indicator for me. There has really been two years of continuous cooperation with health care institutions, you said correctly, and so has the social and labour sectors. Now the social sector has gone more into the administration of another minister. There are, of course, a great many nuances here, various logics of the functioning of the institution, and a number of issues that, over time, are becoming better and better. The fact that there is always room for improvement, I have no doubt at all. But the assessment that I don't know at all and I'm not at all familiar with it, well, it's very difficult to give a substantive answer. The other side: I have not considered resigning, I do not see any reasonable justification for this at the moment. I agree, of course, with the fact that we have a high prevalence of infection and virus in Estonia and that we have a lot of work to do here together to get it down. Indeed, we have been dealing with this issue for 12 months, both during emergency situations, during normal times and during the summer months, in the autumn and in winter, in the plan of our own medical capabilities, in various additional budget applications, in finding European Union funds, in the restructuring of hospitals, in the preparation of preparedness plans, in the preparation and implementation of the vaccination plan, in the implementation and testing of vaccination. My workdays are pretty long, and that's the way it's supposed to be, and weekends are going to be there. There's plenty of work, there's plenty of challenges. But in order to emerge from this crisis, the contribution of the entire population, including the contribution of the members of the Riigikogu, is certainly necessary, with reasonable calls for people to be able to deal with this situation. I very much hope that we will hear them more and more from all the political groups of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U35	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U36	Thank you. Yeah, well, as always with the Minister in question, there's a lot of talk, but there's not enough information. The claim that he has not heard criticism from within his field of activity was, I think, a person in the field; he has also criticised these things. The question here was specifically about the Prisk case, which has been compounded by a number of other corrupt incidents. The Minister says there is no need to evaluate every vaccination case or 100,000 vaccinees. It's not. It is only necessary to assess the cases that have taken place. And I don't think it's absolutely enough that all the vaccines need to be used to their fullest, otherwise they go to waste. We have a member of the Riigikogu who has received a vaccine instead of a dog. But I'm sure you can't waste vaccines at PERH, because none of the hospitals have been vaccinated yet. If the Perh Council decides to vaccinate itself, it is pure exploitation of its influence and it is, in fact, corruption. That is what we want to hear about the assessment, because it is not in line with the vaccination plan. I still don't understand why South-Estonian Hospital was wrong, but it wasn't in PERH. It is a question of a moral assessment that we have not yet heard from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U37	Thank you. There are, of course, many people active in the field of health. But as for PERH, as I said before, it was a proposal from the PERH board to the Council. This was not the Council's decision, the Council never discussed this issue in the same way; the Council, of course, could not have taken a decision on its own vaccination. You asked about the South Estonia Hospital, it's in Võru. The case of Valga Hospital was what we have been talking about in the meantime, where the vaccine was offered outside the health facility, or other target groups. It really was a problem. I have not received any complaints about South-Estonian Hospital. And as far as the assessment is concerned, I have said in the past that I personally would not have accepted this vaccination at the time, and at that point the vaccine was not yet available. I agree with that. However, if the management of PERH has made such a decision of consideration and some of the board members have made use of this opportunity, both in the hospital and in other hospitals all over Estonia, then I do not agree with this assessment now in some way to brand it as corruption. As I referred to earlier, it is not a decision to vaccinate itself, but a proposal from the Bureau. The board and the health institution as a whole have the right to do so. There are a large number of workers from outside the healthcare workforce who have been vaccinated precisely to reduce intra-hospital infections, the spread of the disease to both patients and workers. That, in itself, is the right purpose. In the case of PERH, you also asked that there was no way to find anyone else. It was a psychiatric clinic that is somewhat separate from the others, and the head of the psychiatric clinic personally assured me that it was the situation and the moment they had to choose whether they would miss the vaccine or find someone quickly. Since, in the past, the members of the Council were indeed asked that who has interest and willingness, this vaccination took place in this case. All the parties I've been in contact with at PERH have explained the reasons, justified the reasons, and in this case I see no reason to call it a total violation of the vaccination plan in any way. Rather, the question is, yes, in this order, I agree that when will someone be reached? In the principle, I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U38	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Kaja Kallas has repeatedly claimed to the public that the current vaccination situation is due to the failure of the previous government to tender for vaccines. You yourself were involved in these procurements. Have you been able to explain to your new Prime Minister that he is wrong, or if you share his position, will you take responsibility for the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U40	Thank you for your question and your proposal. When we talk about participating in the joint procurement of the European Union, Estonia has really been active here. We are in the process of acquiring vaccines from at least seven manufacturers with the possibility of extending this vaccine portfolio further. We have booked some 4.5 million doses, but this number may still change because the possibility of additional contracts has been offered for several products after obtaining a marketing authorisation. In these cases, consideration should be given to when these doses actually arrive, whether it is reasonable to join them or not. In time, the deficit of vaccines now and now, or figuratively, a million doses in the second half of the year, is probably less than half a million doses or even a few hundred thousand doses in the first half of the year. This indicates a change in the value of the vaccine currency over time. As far as all this activity is concerned at government level, of course we had disputes in the government, the ministers of your party will certainly remember it well. There were discussions. Fortunately, reasonable decisions were finally made. We made a fairly wide pool of vaccines precisely because we didn't know which vaccines were the first to be authorised. I think there were few experts in Europe and in the rest of the world who could have put the exact order we have reached today. [I mean] the first three [recipient of the marketing authorisation] and the fourth, which should be granted this week. But the fact that we have received a rather broad portfolio is one of the reasons why, as I referred to earlier, Estonia is the fifth of the rate of vaccination in the European Union, based on this morning's latest data, for 27 countries. I'm sure this isn't an embarrassing place to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U41	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Every day we hear news of how difficult the situation is and how the number of infected is increasing. Of course, the situation is very critical and I will send my thanks to the people who are dealing with it. You said, good Tanel, that we must all be reasonable and, as members of the Riigikogu, contribute to getting out of the corona crisis. That's what you said. This is where I convey the concerns of quite a number of people who have contacted me. When you read how our President travels and where he plans to go, the situation is that the picture we are telling people does not coincide with what our leaders are doing. What's your assessment? Should the President also show solidarity with the people and review his travel plans for the near future until the situation returns to normal? Perhaps you have already proposed to the Office of the President of the Republic to travel less? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U43	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would say that this is a perfectly understandable theme. Personally, I've minimized my travel schedule. The last time I went to Brussels before the crisis and in August in Helsinki to study the treatment options for a new children's hospital, we discussed both COVID-19 topics and other cooperation places in the field of health. I really haven't had any more trips in the last 13 months, if I'm not mistaken. I don't think I'm wrong. And more generally, I think that this is really the time when all Estonian residents, including members of the government, must assess very critically which meetings can be made by video, which trips can be postponed, cancel which trips to be made within a limited composition, with shorter time or with confidence measures, i.e. in which case a conscious decision can be taken to go there. I am not familiar with these specific schedules of the Office of the President of the Republic; they are not directly assessed or coordinated by the Ministry of Social Affairs. It was certainly carefully considered whether and under what conditions to go, and it is known that the President has received the first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine and, as far as I know, he will receive the second dose of the vaccine before travelling. In any case, both the presidents and the vaccination of their fellow passengers are very clearly helping to mitigate this risk and potential danger. In this case, we are talking about a business trip, aren't we, but when we talk more about tourist trips, holiday trips, my warm recommendation is definitely to cancel or postpone the trip. It has been quite regrettable to hear stories about how someone has come from Tanzania or South Africa and brought the South African strain into Estonia, knowing that it is more infectious, knowing that it has potentially more serious consequences and knowing that there is a risk that it will not respond so well to the vaccine. Taking all these criteria into account, I very much hope that people will understand that this is not the time to discover exotic lands. It is now time to rest and move in the fresh air, mainly at home, and to wait for seasonality, various restrictions, sensible behaviour of people, as well as vaccination to reduce the incidence of infection and the need for hospital treatment. I'm sure that travel time will come back someday, but maybe not now, in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U44	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U45	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We have 7,000 sick beds in the country. As early as March last year, when this corona crisis began, it was announced that we have a limit of some 600-700 beds available to patients with corona and, if more beds are needed, our reception capacity is exhausted and we may lose control. The question is this: has the number of crown beds been increased during this last year, from March to March? If so, how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U46	Thank you for your question. Yes, hospitals have made preparedness plans, or plans A, B and C, which were already being developed at the time. Hospitals have reviewed the possibilities for building more COVID-19 rooms within the hospital. It should be borne in mind that the total active hospital care resources are intended for 4,750 patients. The number of beds is over 6,000 if passive care is included, i.e. nursing services, care services, and there are patients permanently inside. Thus, not all of these places can be physically booked for COVID-19 patients. Inevitably, we also have a great many other health concerns for which people need help, care and other health services, and we cannot shut it all down. But these preparedness plans today have capabilities, for example, currently increasing the number of places in COVID-19 with intensive care facilities across Estonia to around 950. However, this is largely due to the fact that in the meantime which departments can be set up to function together and which departments can be allocated in full to patients with COVID-19, because it is not possible to treat infectious patients clearly even with other patients. For them there are separate rooms, ventilation and insulation solutions, separate health care personnel. I am not tired of repeating, I am still taking this opportunity, that there have never been beds in the Estonian health care system or in the rest of the world, but that there is a shortage of staff, that is, health workers. There are fewer doctors and nurses in Estonia than in the European Union on average. This is particularly evident in the case of nurses, which would require thousands more to comply with the WHO recommendation. The health sector is certainly also underfunded, which we can see in OECD comparisons and European Union comparisons, not to mention the Nordic countries. In Estonia, health care is targeted at less than 5% of GDP in the state budget, with the contribution of the people being around 6.5¢6.6%. But in the case of the Nordic countries, we're talking about 9-10%. Of course, this gap in funding levels, as well as the number of staff that can be recruited for this money, must be highlighted. I hope that this health crisis will make us think that it is not enough in healthcare that we have the ability to guarantee only the current need for medical care for an urgent reason, even here, in fact, there are shortcomings and problems, but that we must also be prepared for any crises, any situations, such as now, where the pandemic lasts for a whole year and the end has not yet arrived. Even then, there must be sufficient resources, sufficient health professionals capable of providing the necessary treatment during the epidemic or during the crisis, both for the victims of this crisis and for all other people in need of care. Finally, I will give you some numbers. Every year, more than one million people use at least one health care service in the Republic of Estonia. This may help to understand how much treatment is actually needed in the Republic of Estonia when we sum up all levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U47	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U48	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Whether individual cases of elite vaccination have been justified or unwarranted, it is clear that the people's sense of justice has been violated by this entire elite vaccination pattern. I would certainly expect self-criticism from you here. Please explain what has been done wrong or not done in your ministry's communications, that such a very bad signal has gone public.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U49	Thank you for your question. Yes, in this case, I can say that I agree with the question in that sense that it has undoubtedly offended people's sense of justice, including my own sense of justice. Perhaps there have been places where [questioning] choices have been made in different treatment facilities, as I referred to earlier, when we talk about offers made outside health establishments or other incomprehensible decisions which, under the conditions of a vaccine deficiency, certainly cannot be tolerated. With regard to the vaccination of the members of the Council, as has been asked a lot here, it was indeed a matter of chronological order. Perhaps the starting point must be that first people who are infectious against COVID-19, people who work in intensive care, people who work in emergency care departments and other people who are directly involved in treatment work, and only in the second phase other health care professionals. Here, too, in time, I think there have been concerns, in other words, that it should have been done in a different order. It is perfectly understandable in this view that people have questions, legitimate concerns, and also resentment. I certainly don't blame anyone for that. This is, in some respects, inevitable in the case of such a large mass vaccination. The best thing we can do is minimise these situations, i.e. issue guidelines, give explanations, contact us, if necessary initiate supervision, as has been done in the case of Ida-Viru Central Hospital, in order to identify the circumstances and, if necessary, bring them to the public, if there are any obvious 'abuse'.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U51	Good minister! I don't know if you can hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U52	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U53	Hello! Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U54	We hear good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U55	Yes, thank you! It has now been discussed that Chancellor Prisk has done like a bad deed. But do you share my point that, in this case, if our esteemed chancellor Prisk allowed this vaccine to be injected into his blood, it could actually be considered a hero? Perhaps other high-ranking civil servants should take the example that if it is a vaccine that might otherwise go into the trash because the expiry date is over, it should be allowed to inject itself into the blood. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U56	Thank you. When we are talking about frontline workers with a higher risk of infection, critical service providers and also the strategic frontline, we have brought their vaccination proposals to the government. In particular, we really started out in the areas of education, internal security and social security, where continuity of services, prevention and reduction of human infection and disease are essential. But also the strategic front line is certainly among the frontline workers. I have personally said that I think it would be justified for the members of the Government of the Republic, members of the Riigikogu and representatives of constitutional institutions to be vaccinated with AstraZeneca vaccine during March. This is, on the one hand, a question of national continuity and, on the other hand, a question of an example, for example, if there are doubts or concerns, you will see that others are called upon to vaccinate, but they do not vaccinate themselves. These questions also come often, and especially to people in my field. I think it might help to dispel this suspicion as well. All the more so as when we talk about the amount of vaccine, more than 200,000 doses of vaccine are expected in Estonia in March, more than in the winter. So hopefully, the peak of the vaccine deficiency will be behind us, even though it may still continue in the spring months. Probably the end of the second quarter or the third quarter is a breaking point where we really have so much vaccine that we need to start thinking about selling it, donating it and other issues. The aim is to make vaccination free of charge available to all residents of Estonia from May, so in this sense, it is reasonable to give vaccination to frontier workers during the spring months.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U57	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! As you point out yourself, under the conditions of vaccine deficiency, this is a problem, the fair use of this whole vaccine. But this should not be generally problematic. It is said that at the University Hospital of Tartu, foreign students were vaccinated massively so that they might want to go home. I don't know if that's true or not true. Under the circumstances that exist now, there are certainly more stories than there are really truths. Surely, these stories must be given a very good and proper explanation so that the people have confidence. Is this statement about the University of Tartu Hospital correct or not? What have you heard about this? And if not, maybe you'll let me explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U59	Thank you very much for your question. I regularly associate with the heads of the University of Tartu Hospital, especially Dr Joel Starkopf, Head of the Southern Medical Staff, as well as with the hospital's management, medical director, quite a number of them, and also with Pillerin Soodla, member of the Scientific Advisory Board, who is also from the University of Tartu Hospital. This has not come to my attention that foreign students have been given non-vaccinating or otherwise given priority vaccination. What has been, be it said immediately, is that health-care students have been vaccinated. This has been reasonable, however, since they often either internate or otherwise contribute to the work of the institution. Even now, when we are talking about the shortage of health care staff, it is precisely the students of both the universities of health care and the final courses of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu who we are asking for as an additional resource. It is therefore very good that they have received the vaccine dose in good time. If they have so far worked in a hospital or health facility in another department with a lower risk of infection and are now heading to the COVID-19 department, it is known that they have protection through vaccination. But I can really ask the heads of the University of Tartu Hospital whether they have any knowledge that they have been vaccinated outside medical science. I haven't been able to get that kind of information, but I can check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U60	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Kiik! From what you've been saying, it's pretty messed up, which is why Chancellor Prisk got his dose. He got that shot on January 5th. Did he get it the way it was originally claimed that it was the so-called sixth dose, and the doctor stood somewhere with an inconspicuous face, looking for the victims to be crushed into, or did he still have an appointment on January 5th, and he went when, I don't know, an elite vaccine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U62	Thank you for your question. According to the information I was aware of, the management of the North Estonian Regional Hospital decided to offer vaccination to members of the board of directors among the staff of other health institutions. They were asked for feedback. Since Marika Priske was interested, she remained on the stock list. He was offered a specific vaccination option and a date by the head of a psychiatric clinic. So in this case, it can be said that both of your claims are correct in some respects: this opportunity was decided to give or offer North Estonia Regional Hospital and this particular possibility of a 6th vaccine dose was contacted by the clinic's management at the beginning of January. The date was probably what you referred to. I'll be honest with you, I don't dare say 100 percent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U63	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! Well, listen to you guys, we're gonna have a total top-down, great, right now, we're gonna be all right, and we're gonna be all right. I remember, and so do other people of my age, remember how the party congresses, the congresses of the NLKP, about the same tone and about the same vocabulary were reported to us. Well, things aren't actually okay. Here's my question. Experiences from countries that are more advanced and more effective than us show, and researchers also confirm, that in order to overcome the disease, it is necessary to vaccinate up to 70% of the population, with a minimum of 50% of the population. You reported that next month, we'll have about 200,000 doses. If we count that by then we'll have maybe 150,000 people vaccinated and put in 200,000 more, then we'll have 350,000 vaccinated. It is far below half the population, which is about 650000 people. What are you gonna tell people now? When do we actually get the first round of vaccination? And then we're gonna have to do another round. This is critical, because if we don't get it done in the next few months, our economy will collapse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U65	Thank you for your question. I am certainly not saying that the whole situation of COVID-19 in Estonia is under control or in order. That is certainly not the case. I monitor daily indicators and hospital care, not just every day, but I can say that on a regular basis, on working days and on weekends, in the evenings and in the mornings. There is now a bigger crisis in Estonia than ever before, that is true. As far as vaccination is concerned, we have indeed been faster than the European Union average and this is only positive. Always get more and better. We want to increase the pace due to new and larger supplies of vaccines. The quantity I referred to is the quantity in March. Perhaps in March, the current promises, charts, should be above 200,000 doses of vaccine. 171000 doses have reached Estonia so far, this morning 14000 more, so by noon today we should have a total of 185000 doses of vaccine. So, at the end of March, we can talk about the nearest 400000 doses of vaccine that must have reached the country if the schedules have to. In case of vaccination, a person really needs two doses. Most of those who have been vaccinated with, for example, Pfizer or Moderna require a second dose in the next three or four weeks. For those who have received AstraZeneca, there is longer, two months. For example, if a person receives the first dose in March-April, his second vaccination time will be in May-June when new deliveries are coming up. That's why we don't put away that much of the vaccines. Currently, more than 100,000 people have been vaccinated with at least one dose. The goal of the end of March is that the number should be above 200,000 for those who have received at least one dose. The target is, of course, higher; it all depends on how many doses will reach the country and on what date they will arrive. Dosages arriving on the last day of March will be used during April for obvious reasons. It is realistic to reach 70% coverage if Estonians are interested, they are likely to be actively vaccinated during the summer months, not yet in spring, and there are not enough doses of vaccine. Speaking of numbers, the way it is now is that by the second quarter, about 800,000 doses are allowed for three months in total. Perhaps [in the second quarter there will be] 800000 doses of vaccine, in March 200,000, from January to February 150,000 already exist. So we're talking a total of about 1.1 or 1.2 million doses of vaccine. This already provides about half of Estonia's adult population with the possibility of vaccination, but not yet 70%. The amount of vaccine needed to cover 70% of the vaccine should be given to Estonia when another vaccine is authorised, for example, the deliveries of Janssen Pharmaceutica have not been taken into account at the moment, as their vaccine is expected to be authorised this week. In addition, there are a number of others in the preliminary evaluation of the vaccine and, of course, we hope that the vaccine producers will also be able to increase their production capacity. In this case, it is possible to reach the number of doses needed to vaccinate 70% of the population as early as the second quarter. Every week, every day, every month brings more clarity. We are actively communicating with producers, dealing with graphs and their validity. Similarly, at European Union level, we have made joint returns with other countries as well as written directly to the Health Commissioner that Estonia, as a country that has used vaccines faster than the average, and at the same time one of the countries with the highest levels of infection, could receive the next deliveries somewhat more quickly, because the situation is really critical in Estonia. This distribution plan has not yet been revised at European Union level, but this issue has been raised, at our request and at the request of some other countries, to ensure that the distribution of vaccines is not only viewed in relation to the population [and vaccine quantity], but also on the ground, including the incidence of infections, hospital care indicators and the rate of vaccination. I very much agree with the fact that, from an economic point of view, restrictions can only be limited in the short term. I have always said that vaccination is the only sustainable solution to this crisis. All other things are short-term: we can shut down [the country], we can compensate, we can make an additional budget, which must be done in the current economic and health crisis, we can channel additional resources into the health sector, the business sector, culture, and local authorities to support the social sector. But all these things can only be done in the short term, the long-term solution must be carried out through vaccination. It can be said that the third possible wave, the autumn wave, will certainly not come to the present extent if Estonian residents successfully use the vaccination option. If they do not take this opportunity, then, of course, there is a risk that we will have to deal with this pandemic even further. So, once again, I call on everyone who is offered a vaccination to use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U66	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. You read the list of all vaccinees that are currently preferred. At the end of last week, on social media, we saw a colleague with a bare body, Jürgen Ligi, who was given the vaccine shot. He said that if he doesn't get that shot now, it'll go to the dogs or the sink. Perhaps you can tell which of the risk groups or the preferred age groups belongs to my colleague Jürgen Ligi or which of the front line workers does he represent?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U68	Thank you for your question. This comment, which was in the background, was perhaps not the most successful one in my opinion. We certainly don't offer the vaccine to dogs or the sink at the moment. We still offer this opportunity to people whose health or work requires it. I am not familiar with the medical records of any member of the Riigikogu and I do not need to be; this is not my competence. They are not known by any other person than the individual and by the doctor or family doctor he or she is entrusted with. So I can't tell you exactly what kind of risk group he's in. As far as I know, he was vaccinated with the AstraZeneca vaccine used to vaccinate people under 70 years of age. At present, family doctors are really calling for more and more vaccinations for those 50 to 70 years of age, and for some diagnoses, even younger ones. We have listed in the vaccination plan the main diagnoses for which prior vaccination is indicated. But these diagnosiss may be more, even because there are a variety of rare diseases. Family doctors and family nurses themselves assess on the basis of their own list, who may still have health concerns that make sense to vaccinate as a matter of urgency in order to protect their life and health.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U69	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Over the last few months, health ministers have resigned in two South American countries. The reason has been very simple: there has been an abuse of office in their area of administration as a result of gaining the advantages of vaccination. Do you think their behavior is worthy of an example, is that correct? Often we consider the countries of the region to be banana republics, which I think is a bad name. But who are we compared to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U71	Thank you for your question. I'll start at the end. I certainly agree with this that no country should be labeled in any way and that it should not be considered as better than other countries either. This applies to me in my life in a wider sense, even in relationships between people. But when it comes to the choices of one or another member of government or minister, including the head of government, this crisis has really brought everything. Ministers have changed both in the nearest countries and in the outermost countries, and there have always been some reasons and considerations that we may not know exactly from here in Estonia. As far as vaccination in Estonia is concerned, I assure you that there have been cases where my sense of justice has also been violated. There have been cases where the hospital board has therefore called the hospital head back from office and there have been cases where supervision has been initiated in order to determine the circumstances. But to talk about a wide-ranging abuse of influence, corruption, cases that would indicate or require the attention of law enforcement authorities have not come forward with vaccination, as far as I know. Of course, this cannot be ruled out for such a large quantity and for the coming months. But I believe in the professionalism, ethics and professional honour of health institutions and health professionals in Estonia, that the aim is to vaccinate those people who really need it in order to protect life and health.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U72	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. We now have the opportunity to open negotiations and every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to make a speech. But it seems to me that there is no wish to speak, and I will stop working on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U73	We go to the next question, which is the question of the quality of education under the Coronary Crisis (No 49), submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Eduard Odinets, Heljo Pikhof, Ivari Padari, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkut, Lauri Läänemetsa, Kalvi Tõm, Indrek Saare, Helmen Küti and Raimond Kaljulaid on 10 February 2021. Eduard Odines, a member of the Riigikogu, will be represented as the representative of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and behind the screens! On 10 February, 11 Social Democrats submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Education and Science, expressing concern about how our educational inequalities are getting worse during the corona crisis and under the conditions of the corona. One month has passed, and under no circumstances can we say that the situation has improved. It's more like it's gotten worse. It has become worse, too, that experiments are being conducted by our honorable government with our educational system. Once the school's open, once it's closed, then it's open, then it's closed again. Just now, news has come that the schools will be closed again the day after tomorrow. All of this has a profound impact on our education system, our children's ability to cope. According to various studies, children are lagging behind for about 0.6 academic years. Psychological conditions have significantly deteriorated in children, teachers, and actually parents. Let us look at the news about children's mental health for the last weekend. The number of students with learning difficulties has at least doubled. Against this background, we have asked questions to the Minister for Education and Research and we hope to find out today what the government's plan is to deal with all of this. How to fill gaps in knowledge among children? How to deal with stress and other psychological problems? How to stop child suicide attempts? What can be done to prevent school dropout, which is especially common among puberty? What support is the government planning to provide for school teachers? What are the plans for improving the health of school teachers? And anyway, how have we managed and are we going to cope with the technological capabilities of schools in the future? But even more concerns are, in fact, the technological capacity of families, especially in families with several children. And, of course, in this context, the questioners are interested in how this is also taken into account by the new strategic document drawn up by the government in the field of education, the development plan. Does the education strategy take into account all their distance learning, digital learning, backwardness and psychological problems, as well as the problems of losing out? If not, when will this be done? Finally, I would like to understand when the government will take into account the recommendations of the Scientific Advisory Board as to whether schools should be in distance learning or whether children should study at school. All these questions we hope to be answered by Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U75	Thank you. The Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, will answer the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U76	Thank you. I hope I'm well heard. I thank the interviewers very much for their questioning, for being able to discuss these extremely important issues together in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Of course, sending classes to distance is always a very difficult decision, the heart always hurts about it. That is why we have also tried very hard to react quickly and to provide assistance to schools. But now I'll answer your questions. I'll read out your question and then I'll answer if that's okay. First of all, "What concrete steps have the Ministry of Education and Research taken to fill the gaps in knowledge that have arisen during the years of distance and hybrid learning? One of the options you have highlighted in the past is the organisation of camps and chess to reduce the backwardness of certain substances. In what subjects, in which age are students, in which municipalities, to what extent and from what sources are these camps and chess planned to be organised, and when will the respective opportunities be open to schoolchildren?" Based on the experience of last year's spring chorona time and distance learning, the OECD and the World Bank have carried out different modelling exercises. And only in the last spring experience has the World Bank estimated that it is likely to have left a gap in children's knowledge in half to three quarters of the academic year. And I would like to stress that this is about last spring. Now we've been in a very unstable learning environment for the whole academic year. It's really been that schools are open, schools are closed. There have been relatively few national measures in Estonia, but this does not mean that children had little distance training. No, they've been doing a lot of distance training over the year, when there's been an infection in the class. We have classes who have spent 12 weeks in distance training during the academic year, for example, and it is complicated. And in such a long period of distance learning, there will certainly not be only short-term poor results or learning gaps. We know that students are already experiencing difficulties, but this impact will last much longer, and we must take this into account. We therefore also have plans for rapid interventions and longer-term interventions. Now for the specific camps I've been talking about. These camps were used last year, but then they were primarily entertainment and sports camps, more like youth camps. But this year, we are trying to put two things together: one way of entertainment, the other way of learning. You may be aware that the University of Tartu Science School has been organizing summer science camps for young people for years and have been very popular. These are the camps we're trying to take the schnitt. We have to admit that, specifically, in order to organise these camps, we are going to ask for extra money. The order of magnitude is EUR 6 million, which is the same amount as last year. Let's hope we get that money. At the same time, we have already found more than EUR 8 million for short-term activities from our ministry's budget to help schools. What are these short-term activities? First of all, identifying learning gaps: carrying out e-level work in Estonian and Russian, in Estonian as a second language, in mathematics, in English, in German and in natural sciences. There's a way to learn more. I am very grateful to our universities, who have responded very quickly to our proposal to provide preparatory courses for the final classes. I hope that in the coming days we will be able to make it more public, that we will offer video courses in all subjects in cooperation with the University of Tartu, Tallinn University and TalTech. There is also such a thing as vocational training, which today is offered by three vocational schools. We extend it to 15 vocational schools. It is intended for students who have completed primary school or who have left primary school. They can take six months to learn learning skills and seek to find an inspiring field for a specific child in which to further study. This form of study is very popular in Denmark and Finland, for example. We extend it to different vocational schools. There are also such far-reaching measures. These are a range of additional learning opportunities for learning gaps. I see that the time is going so fast, maybe I can continue this subject by answering questions. But if we have identified learning gaps for children, for example, if there are learning gaps in a particular subject area, then we can offer courses to acquire this topic. But if it is true that the child has not acquired the entire substance, then we can also offer courses to acquire the particular subject afterwards. There are also a number of different training courses for teachers to carry out differentiated learning better in the classroom. We will certainly develop a digital learning resource, have interactive digital lessons and pre-signed diagnostic tests. The second question: "Which support systems have been set up by the Ministry to help students cope with stress and other psychological problems caused by the organisation of training in times of crisis, including in view of the general lack of specialists in the field of education?" This is a very complicated problem. I already know from the work of the Riigikogu that children's mental health indicators have deteriorated and such instability will certainly affect it further. For example, when we last decided to send schools to distance learning, in fact, as you indicated, the scientific council recommended sending children to distance learning for two weeks, we decided to make this decision with a longer view until the end of March. Before I made that decision, I also consulted the School Psychologists' Association and the School Leaders' Association. Both suggested that this decision be made with a longer view, so that children would have more confidence in their future. On the website of trailidja.ee, all applicants have the opportunity to communicate with the Pathfinder's e-advisors. It can be done from Monday to Friday from 10:00 to 2:00. You can leave your questions in the environment, and they will be answered later. And these visits are answered by a school psychologist with a professional certificate. We have shared various practices to support children's mental health. For example, state secondary schools share different practices. Today the "Hellovision" was about the mental health club for learners created at the state gymnasium in Viimsi. There are still such different practices and we share them with schools. But this is clearly a place of concern because, as we know, only 43% of Estonian schools have a school psychologist who can be contacted. Question 3: "In what way does the Ministry monitor the increase in the number of young people who are not in education or training in Estonia and what concrete steps are planned to take to prevent early school leaving as a result of the crisis?" First of all, we try to identify as early as possible student learning gaps and deal with them as personally as possible so that the child does not fall out of the school system. It's very important. But the number of young people who are not in education or employment, or "NEET" status, depends on how well the economy is doing. The last time the number of NEETs increased exponentially after the 2008 economic crisis. And just before the COVID-19 crisis broke out, the number of Estonian NEETs returned to pre-crisis levels. According to Statistics Estonia, in 2019 there were 11600 NEETs aged between 15 and 26, and now there were 18,000 in the third quarter of 2020. And if you look at statistics, 8 000 young people aged 18 to 26 have lost their jobs in precisely those sectors that have been hit hardest by the crisis. In cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, we are in regular contact with local service providers. In the context of the crisis, activities were rapidly re-adjusted to ensure access to support and also virtually continued advisory services. This was done very quickly and efficiently by our youth centre. We regularly monitor the number of NEETs and the profile of young people who are registered for support services, in order to understand how this crisis has affected them and how we can best help them. In any case, this is an issue that is the focus of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Question 4: "What support is provided to teachers who also face stress, fatigue, overwork, and other problems in times of crisis? To what extent does the Ministry intend to support schoolkeepers in compensating for teachers' overtime?" First of all, last week we opened a support line for teachers, where qualified school psychologists respond from 12:00 to 8:00 p.m. Great Britain opened a similar support line. We hope that teachers who do not have a school psychologist will receive operational advice and help. Secondly, in cooperation with schools, school leaders and universities, we are going to offer help to schools in the form of teaching students who may be assistant teachers. Already 225 students have made themselves known; they are ready to go to schools to help. As of today, 90 schools have said they need this help. But I encourage schools to signal that they need help teachers and also students to join this program. In addition, we are also signing an agreement relating to the substitute teachers' programme to also get substitute teachers to help schools during the crisis. I am running out of time, and I may not be able to read the next question in full, but it is about providing technological support for schools. We worked with the Alliance for Child Welfare already during the spring crisis. The Ministry of Education and Research allocated EUR 400000 to them for the purchase of computers. The Child Welfare Association is working with local authorities to find families and children who need additional computers during distance training. Now, in March, 1,200 new additional computers are due to arrive. If you, the good members of the Riigikogu, also have contacts, you know where the families who need support are, be sure to let us know so that the Child Welfare Association can provide this support. And it's also the subject of the development plan. I'm not going to read the question. In fact, the development plan is currently in the Riigikogu and I understand that in the coming weeks we can also talk about the development plan in the large hall of the Riigikogu. In fact, this crisis has shown us that this development plan has been drawn up in the right tone. That is, in the sense that the personal learning paths that we are now going to apply in reality are in there. Mental health issues and support for children's mental health are included, as is the mental health of teachers. So, in fact, this development plan fits in with our experiences during the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U77	Thank you. Good Minister, there are also questions for you. First, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovsky asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. According to what methodology has distance education in Estonian schools been organised? How can the level of knowledge and skills of students be assessed, and how will the effectiveness of distance learning be monitored?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U79	Thank you. The Ministry of Education and Research has sent instructions to schools to organise distance learning, for example, to conduct video lessons. In general, however, it is the school's autonomous decision on how best to organise learning. I would say, for example, that the small Lüllemäe school between the Karula forests already acquired each class camera in November last year. When a teacher is ill or isolated, he can give operational lessons from home. And when children have to be at home, they can also participate in schoolwork at home. Schools have approached it differently. How do we supervise? We've been responding to cases. For example, if a parent has written that there is a problem at school, it has been studied and intervened. But these cases have not been many. Schools have generally done well. The spring experience was likely to be more painful, then new teaching methods were still being studied. But now I'm in close contact with the community of school leaders and various teacher organisations, and I know that the ability to conduct distance learning is significantly better than in spring. And I very much hope that this is confirmed at some point in time by these various tests and proficiency tests, as well as by the results of the exam. Perhaps there are no gaps in our children's knowledge as generally predicted in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U80	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. During the last month, the corona situation has deteriorated. However, the government has repeatedly ignored the recommendations of the scientific council regarding the management of the virus and the fallout of the infection curve. This also applies to education. It is undoubtedly a very sympathetic view that schools should be open as far as possible. But let us look at today's situation, where the Prime Minister has also admitted that the decisions of the government have not been adequate in the last month. One of these decisions concerned schools. On 23 February and also on 2 March, the Scientific Advisory Board recommended sending all schools to distance study for two weeks after the school break. The government decided not to. Could you explain to which expert opinion this proposal was ignored? And do you think it was the right decision afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U82	Thank you. First, indeed, the scientific council proposed that, two weeks after the school break, all classes be in distance learning. We decided that not for two weeks we would send children to distance school, but that we would send them longer. And there were also vocational schools and universities. Vocational schools and universities were not included in the proposal of the Scientific Advisory Board. So the number of young people affected by the government's decision is far greater than the scientific council's decision. And this period is also longer. Why did we decide to leave the little kids at home? In fact, it is a lesson in spring distance learning, and scientific articles also say that distance learning is the worst for young children. Young children are most in need of instruction and specific contact with the teacher. This is a time when trusting relationships with teachers will be established. And that's why we preferred to leave the little kids as long as possible at school. And there wasn't much infection among the little kids back then. There were more infections, but not as much as there were among teenagers. But today we really see a faster spread of disease among younger children, too, and we probably have to make this difficult decision that children from first to fourth grade will also go to distance education. But there are very serious consequences and we cannot make these decisions with a light hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U83	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U84	Thank you. I have a simple question. There has been a lot of talk here about the fact that since it's been such a destructive academic year, maybe all the students at the school will be left to repeat their school course for about one year. Would you be so kind as to disprove this rumor? It raises the hair on both students and parents when they are just being snatched between this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U85	Thank you for your question. According to the knowledge we have today, 30% of students in the order of magnitude say that distance learning is very well suited for them, that they have learned faster and more effectively than they usually study in contact learning. 40% of students say they don't really care if they study at a distance or in contact training. 30% of students have admitted problems. What is the real situation, we will find out once we have measured our learning outcomes? But I certainly don't think that we have a distance study or this difficult academic year so failed that we should leave all the children to repeat the class course. However, I believe, and so do practitioners from schools, that there are children who are very well suited to distance learning. Why, then, should we punish children who have benefited from distance learning? I certainly prefer that we personally deal with and help those children who have had problems learning. After all, we live in lifelong learning. We are learning all the time, and if we did not have anything in the previous class, our education system must be so flexible that these children can also acquire knowledge that has not been acquired.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U86	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Since we have very good teachers, the Estonian school has survived quite well this difficult year, despite the problems. At the same time, this has meant additional tasks and additional burdens for teachers. In addition to commendation, teachers expect and deserve a raise in wages. The new government has been in office for a month and a half, but so far it has not been possible to disprove the message of the previous government that teachers' salaries have been frozen for a full period of four years. Madam Minister, I am now giving you the opportunity to say that the salaries of teachers will rise from the new year and that the minimum wage of teachers will again be equal to the average wage of at least Estonia from the new year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U88	Thank you. First of all, indeed, the studies currently available to us, which have been carried out among teachers, say that the workload of teachers has increased a great deal during this academic year. That's understandable, too. For example, a study has been carried out in Britain, which says that preparing one distance class requires 12 academic hours from the teacher. There are faculty members there, but it actually gives some order of magnitude. So, indeed, proper distance learning certainly requires a greater contribution from the teacher than from contact hours. Studies also confirm that the burden has increased. As regards the increase in teachers' pay, negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy will start soon and I hope to come from there with more positive messages. But there's no way I can make that right now. However, it is clear that teachers certainly deserve a raise in wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U89	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Surely the situation would be quite different if the recommendations of the scientific council had been heard. Perhaps then the students would have gotten to school much earlier and the virus would have spread much less. But I'm worried about the parents directly from the schools and also from the ministry. In fact, it is necessary to intervene, somehow to support families whose children must study at home. There are parents and families that are now under attack. You come home at 6:00 and then you have to study with the kid till 9:00. He can't handle it. He can't handle it. In short, it's very burdensome for families. I've been researching local governments. Municipalities say they don't have enough people to do what they want. Even if there was money, there's nothing we can do to help them. Do you have any solution to make sure that these families do not struggle with these difficulties and that these children do not remain supportive at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U91	Thank you very much. Firstly, for today's Women's Day, it is appropriate to say, and the statistics also show that it is women who are the most affected by distance learning. Most mothers stay home when children stay home because of distance training. And that's the problem, you have to admit it. But what is very important about parents? What is important is that distance learning is not home learning. Distance learning is a school-led course. No parent should take full responsibility for the child's progress. Of course, this requires cooperation between home and school, especially when the child has had learning difficulties, but the school is certainly responsible for providing solutions. We can still invite the child to school if necessary if he or she falls very behind. Then he can be personally helped. And there's also a way to ask the Pathfinder for advice. But the first thing I'm gonna do is advise parents who are having a hard time talking to the headmaster, talking to the school and asking for help. It is the responsibility of the school to teach children and, if necessary, to help them specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U92	And now, please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U93	Minister, thank you very much. Kihnu parish once, now far over ten years ago, received the Tigger Jump Foundation award for the development of virtual learning. We had a teacher in Tartu and physics was taught on screen. But we quickly saw that there was nothing to replace the teacher in front of the class, and soon the lessons started back in the traditional way. My question is whether, for example, the cooperation of mathematics teachers has also arisen in such a way that someone makes an hour's quadratic equation or a percentage of the calculation, and others will then have more time to explain this subject to the students according to the development and needs of everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U94	Thank you, very important question. On the one hand, I am very much a believer in innovation and technology in education, but on the other hand, a trusting relationship between a student and a teacher is very important in teaching. Scientists have written articles on the importance of eye contact between child and teacher in learning, such mutual attention. Very subtle nuances play a role in learning. As far as video lessons are concerned, some of the courses preparing for the exams will be in the video. They shall remain in the following classes: There is already such a channel as Delfi, where you can study mathematics. But now, more specifically, to your question. Yeah, that's exactly what we're up to. When I met with the leaders of the Foundation of Goodhoe, it turned out that they had this kind of thing planned in mathematics. They want to do video lessons that pass on basic knowledge. But it is planned to do so well in cooperation with educational psychologists and, for example, Jaan Aruga, our brain scientist, in order to communicate knowledge most effectively through video. And since we also had video courses in key subjects in the plan for exiting the crisis, we put our backs together and we try to do it together. So clearly that's where we're going.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U95	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Local authorities have taken the initiative, and the city of Rakvere also sent primary classes for two weeks for distance training. I'm touched myself, too, my fourth-grade kid is in distance training because the class was COVID-positive. What do you think the number of infected people should be to take primary classes to distance school? And do you prefer the local government leaders to make these decisions on their own?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U97	Thank you for that question. We're meeting with the government tonight and we're making decisions about new restrictions. And probably we also have to decide that 1/4. Class 1 is going to distance school. If you look at the infection statistics, we can see that there has been an increase in infection among small children. And the hearths of educational institutions continue to exist. So I believe this evening the government will make a decision, that is, 1/4. Class 1 children are going to distance school. And I agree with you. A couple of school leaders have written to me today who reported that parents at their school have announced that they want to leave their first-class children for distance training. And it's a good thing that parents have the opportunity to do teleworking while supporting their little child's distance learning. But my heart hurts for children whose parents can't stay home. After all, we have jobs that cannot be expected to work remotely, such as medical personnel, who we are currently very short of. We are trying to find flexible solutions so that those who are at the front line and cannot support their children at home during distance learning can receive support from teachers and schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U98	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm a little impressed by your little optimism that still, only 30% of students can't handle it. Well, then we'll study our whole lives, repeat the course, then we'll gain more knowledge that didn't exist. Does this claim also apply to graduates and seniors in comprehensive school this year? And if the scenario that the Prime Minister is already spreading in the media, that all classes go to distance training until mid-April, what happens to those seniors who have to pass the international language examination in March, let alone the state exams in mid-April? What is your plan in this regard? And when can these 30% of seniors apply their lifelong learning and repeat the course?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U100	Thank you for your question. As far as final exams are concerned, I will hopefully be in front of the grand Chamber of the Riigikogu in the near future. We have a plan to confirm an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in the government on Thursday of this week in order to ask you for some flexibility in organising the final exams of upper secondary schools for this academic year. This flexibility concerns, in particular, the inclusion of dates for examinations in order to determine, where appropriate, the third day of the examination as well as the ability to modify existing examinations. Indeed, as you rightly said, at the end of March there will already be a Cambridge language exam. On April 19 there should be an Estonian language exam for gymnastics and in mid-April Estonian as a second language exam. Now the question is, do you want to postpone these exam dates? It's an option to push them to the end of April. This would still be a time when university admission would not be adversely affected. We are definitely discussing this issue. I've been communicating with the heads of several high school schools today to find out what they thought about the exams. If you have any information on this, I'm very grateful for sharing it. But the feedback I received was that the Cambridge language exam they would take on the date. That's 2,000 students. We have 7,000 Abiturients, 2,000 of them taking that exam. They are prepared for this, and it is possible to do so with the current restrictions. The question is about the Estonian language exam. Those school leaders I talked to thought that this exam would not necessarily be postponed, but it could be delayed. This in itself does not change the lives of schools very much. Fortunately, the schools have experience from last spring in organising exams under COVID conditions. Last year went very well, there were no infections. And since the schools are empty, I think the school leaders think they can do it by inviting seniors to take the exam, which is a very regulated activity, to school. But this is a subject that I will definitely come before the Riigikogu, so we can discuss it more precisely. But when it comes to 30%, we don't really know what it's like. That's what the students have told the researchers themselves. When I've met teachers and school leaders, they've said that a quarter of the students have confirmed the difficulties. I don't mean to seem too optimistic, but I still think we can fill the learning gaps of these children with a personal approach. And we do have separate measures in the exit strategy for universities so that they can deal with the students who reach them and level out their potential learning gaps. We have not forgotten the universities, nor have we forgotten the students who go from general education to vocational school.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U101	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Minister! You mentioned that 30% are about those students who are struggling with distance learning. But does the Ministry of Education also have an assessment of the percentage of students who simply cannot complete a study programme under the conditions of distance learning? What can we do about them? Leave them to repeat the class or find other solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U103	Thank you. We don't have that kind of certainty. And once again, this 30% is the student's self-assessment of what they've said to scientists in polls. We have tried to organise distance training as flexibly as possible. And we have promised consultations at the school for children with special educational needs, including contact training. There are flexible arrangements in schools. If some children really do not benefit from distance learning, other opportunities can be used flexibly. I hope that children who are in no way able to complete distance learning have been invited to school for individual education or guidance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U104	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U105	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I have never noticed, with regard to the subject of distance learning, that there is talk or question as to how the offer of the so-called pre-school option is currently organised. This has always been a very important support for preparing first-class students for school. Maybe you can tell me how it is now? Is it on the shoulders of parents alone now, or have schools been able to provide this education from a distance?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U106	I should look into it more closely. I know there are schools that have done this remotely, but under the current restrictions, preschool should still not be done, because they are children from outside of school. We have said that if we now have 1/4. Class 1 school, then these kids shouldn't communicate very much with each other. Their trajectories should be different and strangers should not be allowed into the schoolhouse at all. Preschools are in a bad position in that sense now. But there are schools that have done this at a distance. I've heard it, but I don't know what to say. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U107	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question concerns the hybrid education that you spoke about in one of your earlier responses, giving a good example of the Lüllemäe school. In a situation where some people often have to remain self-insulated, hybrid education is a very important instrument in order not to become very lagging behind. However, we know that there is no such possibility in many schools. Would you describe the views of the Ministry of Education on how to offer this opportunity to all children and to level out this unequal situation across the board?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U109	A very important question again! Today I met Tõnu Viig, the new rector of Tallinn University, who will take office in May. We also discussed the need for a completely separate methodology for the successful completion of hybrid learning. The scientific position so far has been that hybrid learning, especially when there are larger classes, is the most inefficient teaching method at all. That is, according to current knowledge and skills. But obviously this is the future of the educational world. We need to be prepared to allow hybrid learning and to do so we need to develop a hybrid learning methodology. Yeah, well, knowing so far is that if you have some kids behind the screen and some kids in the classroom, those who are behind the screen tend to get in the background, and they don't get as good contact with the teacher as you can if all the kids are behind the screen. This is an area that we certainly have to deal with further. And Tõnu Viig and I agreed that we would definitely cooperate on this, because it is the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U110	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U111	Thank you. I was very pleased, Minister, that you said that the knowledge of our children may not have deteriorated as much as perhaps in other countries. It is also known that our schools have not been in distance training for as long as they have been in many other European countries. But what is very important is that the pilot studies carried out by the Education Forum have shown that the most important thing is the ability of our children to manage themselves. It'll decide if the kids can handle it. What can be learned now about how schools can still support children to improve their self - control capacity? Has anything been done to help the teachers? And second, what is there to learn for the future? We are about to discuss a new education development plan where self-management capacity can be central.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U112	Thank you. As they say, no crisis can be wasted. Obviously, every crisis shows the weaknesses of the system. This has certainly been done by the COVID crisis in the field of education. For many years we have had general competences in various development plans, including the development of such a self-leading student. At present, we see in reality that a large number of children have not mastered these skills well enough, and this needs to be dealt with more systematically. This is certainly a lesson that we will take with us to start teaching children more systematically early, how to learn, how to learn and how to study personally is most effective. In addition, the child needs to acquire time planning skills and so on until his or her career is planned. This is certainly very important and, fortunately, the educational strategy in the Riigikogu formulates and offers solutions to this problem. These general competences need to be developed much more systematically. This also requires the development of curricula, and that is certainly what we are doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U113	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U114	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is clear that teachers have put a lot of effort into finding solutions, whether for hybrid or distance learning. I think that, in many ways, in both teachers and parents, uncertainty is a source of stress and tension: who can learn, during what period, whether the exams are taking place and when they are taking place. The government's job is to create this fortress. Now we are discussing restrictions, but from your answers, we understand that, in fact, the situation may be quite different this evening. What can be assured of all students, teachers, parents? Is it possible that the school year will not be missed, will it be wasted? Or that all graduates can make the right choices for themselves, whether it concerns vocational education or higher education? What is it that students can be sure of now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U115	Thank you. This is very right, and it has also been said by mental health professionals that mental health insecurity is most affected by this crisis. So the more clarity it is possible to create in this crisis, the better. That is why we decided with a longer view to direct children to distance learning longer than suggested by the scientific council. Just to be clear in the long term. Yes, this COVID crisis is such a very dynamic crisis, which sometimes requires a rapid response and perhaps a rethink of some decisions. We have said very clearly, including I, that the final exams will be held this year, both in comprehensive school and in upper secondary school. The question is only whether we are pushing the Estonian language exam, which is currently planned for 19 April, at the end of April. But the fact that the exams are taking place, I can confirm on the basis of current knowledge. If you ask what conditions the exams could not take, the answer to this question is that if the situation in COVID were to become extremely critical. The government has now sent children to distance school, but there are exceptions. Exceptions include the organisation of examinations and the possibility of carrying out tests and tests. If the situation gets so critical that the government must abolish these exceptions and no one must go to the schoolhouse, it is clear that exams cannot be conducted. The results of the examinations must then also be excluded from the conditions for graduating at upper secondary school level. At basic school level, we have already done this, but then we must also do it at upper secondary school level. Our clear goal is that no child's school is left unfinished because of the COVID. At the moment, it is in the middle school that if you have more than two unsatisfactory grades on your graduation certificate, you can still get a so-called white certificate on the basis of your parent's application, but if you have many unsatisfactory grades on your graduation certificate, your child will not graduate. In summary, we have tried to make longer-view decisions in the field of education, as far as possible. And secondly, as far as graduates are concerned, they know that the exams are taking place, and generally also take place at the prescribed time. We are now only discussing whether or not to postpone the Estonian language exam in mid-April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U116	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. First for you and your team to deliver strength and strength at a difficult time! I myself believe that this has been the very right direction that we have been trying to maintain contact training in part for as long as possible. But it seems that the numbers won't allow it in the future, and we still have to get the elementary school kids home. My question is about supporting our teachers and schools. How much can the state help our educators in organising hybrid and distance learning? Or is the entire learning process still the organisation of schools, as foreseen in the prescribed curriculum? God forbid that we should continue to deal with these issues in the autumn, but is there a think tank that discusses a longer-term strategy, or is there such a difficult situation that there is no time to look ahead? How can hybrid education be better organised as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U118	As I said in my answers, the state has come to the aid of schools and teachers. First, we have registered 225 teachers who are ready to help as assistant teachers. And right now, 90 schools have said they need this help. It is such a real support for a particular teacher either to check the work or to give someone personal consultation. This is the agreement between the school and the student on how best to help teachers. Secondly, we are about to sign an agreement on the substitute teachers' program. The state finances the use of substitute teachers in schools where a substitute teacher is needed. I think this, too, is very important support for teachers. As we have repeatedly talked here, indeed the burden on teachers has increased, and the question is how can we normalise this burden in order for the teacher to be better able to teach children. So substitute teachers and students from both Tallinn University and the University of Tartu go to schools to help. I am very pleased that, for example, the University of Tartu has done a special subject for teachers' students very quickly, for which they will also receive credits if they go to schools to help. And the Ministry is ready to pay these students a scholarship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U119	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U120	Thank you! It's kind of hard for me to tell you the questions I'm asking here today. Sounds like a reproach and they're looking for the guilty. And that's why I have a question for you. During this short but very tough ministerial work, have you seen support for the measures you have proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U121	First of all, really, I am very, very grateful to universities who have come very quickly to help us. These teacher students were able to concentrate very quickly. It was an idea taken from a meeting with the school leaders and took off. After a few days, a considerable number of students had signed up. This is a very important contribution. And secondly, this support that universities were very quickly prepared to create courses for both comprehensive school and upper secondary school graduates to prepare for the exam. This has indeed taken place in a very short period of time. I have felt that we are not alone in this crisis and worry. If the assistance is requested, the assistance will be provided. And on the other hand, to think more positively about what we are taking from this crisis, it is certainly educational innovation that we can take from this crisis. I have met representatives of our start-up community, who are committed to education and who are willing to contribute to new technologies so that our digital or distance learning becomes more effective and personalised. I believe, rather than believe, that Estonia is famous for two things: we have a very strong education and we are an e-state. And if we can put these two together, it will certainly be an education innovation export article in the future that will be sold out. I hope that this experience will give rise to a proper educational innovation. Thank you to all those who have already contributed!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U122	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U123	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, I also want strength and success and, of course, cooperation. I know that you are going to negotiations on the budget for next year with quite a lot of requests. As has been said today, teachers' salaries, as well as school supplies and everything. One very important issue is mental health, and on one issue you brought it up. You have always spoken very strongly and very supportively about mental health issues, regardless of your position. The need to pay attention to this is great. My question concerns one of the professional years of clinical psychologists. This year it has been funded, but will it ensure that the problem is solved? We know that mental health deficits are quite serious. Unfortunately, the amendment to the law on psychiatric assistance has still not been adopted, but we hope for the best.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U124	Thank you. I have seen that the preparation for the second reading of the draft amendment to the law on psychiatric assistance was scheduled for the Social Affairs Committee this week, perhaps tomorrow. In any case, I will follow this process and hope that this bill will soon reach the grand hall of the Riigikogu. Within the year of the invitation, we'll find the money we need to do it in one way or another. I really can't imagine leaving this house without your consent to fund the school psychologists' professional year. That's the money we need to find, that's extremely important. The current crisis has shown us again how important this is. We only have a 42% psychologist in schools, and there's no way we can be satisfied with that. We need to deal systematically with the need for more school psychologists and for them to be directed to schools. In cooperation with the School Psychologists' Association, we created a support line for teachers. One thing is that children do not get to a school psychologist as quickly as they need, but otherwise teachers who need counsel from a school psychologist have not received this service. Now, thanks to this support line, they're gonna get it. But obviously that's the problem, and that's what I'm definitely working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U125	Minister, there seem to be no further questions for you. But I would ask you to signal if you would like to speak once more on this subject after the members of the Riigikogu. Right now, we're going to the negotiations. First Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U126	Thank you. And I'm asking for more time just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U127	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U128	Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I decided to use this time to tell you a story about a girl. She's eight years old, studying at a Kohtla-Järve school in second grade by now. The child has a Russian native language, studying in a class with an Estonian language of instruction. Most of his school life has passed in the context of a pandemic and distance learning. A small child learns in a foreign language, in a completely new environment: Zoom, Teams, e-school and so on. The child's shock is about four times the normal shock that the average Estonian family gets in such a situation. The child has had to acquire almost all the great things, including how to learn, along the way. But has he acquired it? How many times has the child been in close contact at home? How many times was the teacher in close contact at home? How long was the teacher sick? How many times was the school or class taken to a distance study at the school's discretion, how many times did the local government or government of the Republic decide? It is no longer possible to count these times. All of this led to the fact that the mother and father of the child became sick and at home with the corona for nearly two months. A girl remained home, and her five - year - old brother remained. And that's how life for this little kid is: once school is closed, once open, then closed again, then open again. And as we'll probably hear from the news today, it's gonna go down again. And all this time, the child has had to acquire all the necessary knowledge in a foreign language, in a new environment. The child's father speaks Estonian more or less, rather less, his mother does not speak it, neither does his grandmother nor his grandfather. But the child learns, all in a foreign language, in a new environment. A younger child, a five-year-old, is also studying. Can we imagine what is really going on in this middle family in Ida-Virumaa? What does a child really learn, and what does he miss? The psychological indoor climate of the family is also driven by the government's signals of the upcoming green turn, and the father, who can actually help the child learn, is working to maintain his job in the oil shale quarry. And that's how this family learns. Last night, for example, the question of homework had to be answered: What are the advantages and disadvantages if you went to live on the moon? The whole family wire was together. Why does the question end in the commanding speech: listen? In the last distress, a member of the Riigikogu was approached by his uncle, who unfortunately did not have much time to deal with this issue, as he prepared to listen to the Minister on the issue of what to do with Estonian school education. The minister was told to have a plan to help our story's little hero, how to help his family, how to help his teachers, and how to help the school. Of course, the smartest thing to do is to have a grandfather who knows very well who should be sent to live in this situation and what the benefits are. I'm not going to mention the names here. Today, the Minister has been praised several times: a very empathetic, big-hearted, big-spirited person. But, dear Minister of Education, I didn't hear in about an hour how my brother's child could be helped if he was studying in a foreign language, in a foreign environment. For about half a year, he's missing knowledge, and he's definitely 30% of it. When he's gonna learn that, I can't tell. As we know, it's a little early to go to the science school, I wouldn't send a child to the camp that's already in shock, and he's not really ready to do the levelwork so he can determine what his learning gaps are. It is also a little early to prepare for the exam, and vocational training is not for him either. Digital lessons and digital diagnostics are not yet for him. Probably for him, your suggested Pathfinder e-adviser, but believe me, no one wants to see this e-thing in this family. Luckily, she's not a NEET girl yet, and it's a little early to worry about that. Apparently, teachers are helped by this psychological support line, and the teacher will probably be better able to do his job. I don't know if those substitute teachers and student teachers are gonna get to our kid. The family's been lucky with the computer, they've got two at home, they're working with varying success, but they'll be fine before the smaller ones go to school. We have also heard that the Minister has the hope that the teachers will receive a raise. I'd like to hope the teachers get a bonus. This would probably motivate our hero teacher to work even better, even though he is already doing so well under the conditions he has been given. And all that fortress that will be tomorrow, what will happen the day after tomorrow, how to plan your life, how to plan your education? That's what we talked about today, but the latest news doesn't give us any certainty. And the final suggestion on my part, madam minister. Today, design thinking is also very fashionable in the public sector: the country designs measures to solve a problem. The person, the individual for whom the measures are being developed, plays a very important role in the design of the measures. I offer my brother's child as a person for you. Please think of him when you develop these measures. Don't forget that 30%, and please don't forget my little Diana! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U129	Next, please, Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U130	Thank you, Mr President, I would like to ask for an extra three minutes now. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, A colleague here was concerned that so much responsibility and almost guilt would be brought to the hands of the new minister. I do not think that today's debate should be taken this way. Undoubtedly, responsibility is limited to the time when the new minister has been in office. That's one. Secondly, we are not dealing with the issue of guilt here in this format and in the situation that has developed. The question is what have been the choices that have been made: whether they have all succeeded and what should be done to improve the situation. As a general comment: that's what happens when you let it go completely. When control of the virus disappears overall throughout society, it can be desired and considered very important for schools to work, but in the end these very strongly negative effects will also reach it. This is not a complaint to the Minister of Education or the Ministry of Education, but to two successive governments during the second wave. Firstly, at the beginning of November, the previous government did not take sufficiently seriously the predictions made by scientists. For a month, the plateau went up to such a level by December that it was necessary to shut down schools, as we remember. And later, when growth was achieved, the opening-up of society, including the opening-up of the education system, actually came early. This has led to a situation where, in fact, we have gradually grown infected, it has completely got out of hand, and now the most drastic measures are inevitable. Perhaps this interim decision to reject the proposals of the Scientific Advisory Board concerning the closure of schools has led to the fact that this must be done in the end. And this is true for a long time and social losses have accumulated in the meantime. So it was a mistake. This was a mistake not only in the field of education, but more generally. More specifically, however, this great strategic failure in the field of education cannot undoubtedly be blamed on today's minister, on the previous one and on the Ministry of Education. You see, it's hard to tell how to manage a system with hundreds of different businesses. Businesses in some area can be very specific, and how some restrictions affect them, we really cannot predict to the end, and a little bit of ad hoc use must be made of. The education system operates in a harmonised way. We know exactly how many children there are, how many schools are, who own the schools where these schools are, what the curriculum is. It is a completely unitary system in the Estonian state, and it means that it would have been possible and it would have actually been necessary to create a sensible traffic lights system for schools. If the spread of infection in a particular area, in a particular municipality, goes green to yellow, that means that this is what happens. If it gets orange and then red, for example, it happens. Then both teachers and students will understand how these decisions are actually made and what the period of notice is. They'd know how to plan their work. We've been going on, let's just take the last month, let's go on an ad hoc basis. It's time to open everything, close it in two weeks, but they say the primary classes can stay. It's been two weeks. They're shutting down the primary classes. Once upper secondary school children are not allowed to go to school, they are allowed to go two days a week, starting next Monday, they had to start two days a week, now it seems that they are not. Actually, it's not system management. Compare to health care! There are levels of preparedness in the healthcare system, and when the spread of infection reaches somewhere, the next plan will be launched. It's all worked out, everyone knows exactly what needs to be done when a certain situation is reached. In education, you'd expect exactly the same thing. Since there is no such thing, we can see that the restrictions are unthinkable and that there is a great deal of irrational in them. We're taking the restrictions now. Twelfths are now feeling the greatest pain as they pass the state exams. Their future lives depend on whether they get into university or not. Their school attendance is limited, while 1/4. Class 1 goes to school because little kids can't be home alone. Okay, maybe the first-class kid can't, but the fourth-grade kid's 11 years old. Can't an 11-year-old kid really be home alone? Of course it can! And it's possible to think everyone's needs through here. As with kindergartens: if there is a need to take a child to kindergartens, the kindergarten must ensure this possibility. This is the way to approach the primary classes. Unfortunately, this has not been done. In addition, we know from the experience of other countries that there are not only two options: whether the school is open or closed. There are also intermediate possibilities. It is open, but with very strict measures, for example. In some places in Estonia, it has been well tested that classes take turns in school, for example, one day and the other. Or the same masks and physical distance in schools. Now, at the end of the day, some instructions are starting to emerge from the Ministry of Education, but in school practice they are still very persistently rooted. It hasn't been dealt with systematically in time. The whole summer was dropped, let's just say it straight. This has actually put Estonian teachers in a very helpless position. Estonia has the best teachers in the world, there is no doubt about that, but what they have been going through in the last year... They must achieve learning outcomes, but they do not know whether or not there is a school, whether or not there will be contact training next week. And in addition to government decisions, there will be situations where a child will remain in the Corona, and then an entire class will be isolated. This is a very, very difficult situation in which teachers have been in, and only digital technologies are undoubtedly not enough here. And now, therefore, a practical proposal in terms of a positive programme. Let's not start in the coming weeks at 1/4. To bully the class. As the Minister of Education rightly said, these children need parental guidance to participate in this study. Let's not bully these students and teachers with a thing called distance learning. Let's say this is the situation right now. The government has so lost it that we actually have to shut down society and just give teachers and students a break. Let's say for a month or two weeks, you don't have to imitate the educational process, you might as well not do it in these classes. The twelfths are different. Let's actually let them study, put more strength there so they can take their exams. And the other half of this proposal: let's consider shortening the break this summer. I know teachers like long vacations, but I'd like to rest right now. The situation is just like this, and this summer, exceptionally, would either go to school early or graduate a year later after the virus situation has improved. Let's make up for those gaps! I think that would be the most sensible and most peaceful solution for all parties involved. And I will undoubtedly join the previous speakers that teachers actually deserve an additional bonus this year, once it is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U131	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes for words. We have concluded negotiations and have also stopped answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U132	And now, after the hammer hit, it's possible to sign up for a free microphone. Starts with Kalle Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U133	All right, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! What is happening here in the independent and democratic Republic of Estonia? For some reason, I would very much like to say that Estonia is an independent and democratic republic in quotes when the last facts come to light. I'll start from a distance. Last week I participated in ETV+'s "Kto Kogo?" on the TV debate. In essence, I was opting for a representative of the Health Board and one of the scientific councils. At the beginning of the show, I said that the scientific council, which supervises the government, should be disbanded throughout the current composition, because their work has not enabled us to cope with the COVID pandemic. My position was, I say it now, that a new composition must actually be formed and other scientists involved, such as Professor Ruth Kalda of the University of Tartu, who has done considerable research on COVID. And the other thing was that I proposed a solution to how it might be possible to cope with a major infection in Tallinn and elsewhere in Harjumaa. Interestingly, neither the scientific council nor the Health Board representatives came to ask me what the proposal might be. Total lack of interest! Well, basically, we can say, what does this stupid citizen of the Riigikogu know? But I'm saying it to the government right now. My request is that you may take this up a little bit with my proposal. Namely, start a free coronataxo. So, let's say, a person gets released from the hospital and doesn't have to go home in a taxi, a close friend, a train, a tram or a bus anywhere across Harjumaa, like Raasik or Paldiski. After all, his routes are accompanied, I suppose, by a cloud of virus particles on the train, on the bus, and on another means of transport. So, maybe it's a point. Such a serious request. It doesn't make sense that any advice from the opposition is given, but if the Health Board and the Scientific Advisory Board aren't in charge, I will. But now it's a completely different area, which is still related to the previous one. The former Prime Minister Jüri Ratas concluded an agreement with the WHO on 5 October last year, rather a memorandum to facilitate the cross-border exchange of digital health data. As the classics say: "Help in heaven! " Delicate health records are not even given to close relatives, but they are now flying into a global data bank! In fact, this memorandum clearly states: the aim is to develop a functioning digitally supported international vaccination certificate, a yellow card concept to increase the effectiveness of the monitoring of vaccination and other vaccinations via COVAX. It is intended to be extended worldwide. And that was at a time when Estonia was at a low level of infection. I would add that the signing of the agreement took place on 5 October 2020, but this clearly indicates that the preparatory work for the agreement had to be launched much earlier. In essence, Jüri Ratas has given the 'yes' word for the development and use of very controversial fundamental human rights, such as the instrument which is the basis for restricting freedom of movement. If you don't vaccinate, you can't cross the border. By the way, this agreement also designates the persons who will monitor whether this memorandum will actually be implemented. Push it over, but I have an evil suspicion that there's still a scientific council involved. Then tell us the names of those who will implement this treaty. Then I apologize, just as President Kaljulaid once promised to apologize. And what's the point? The point is that the signing of this agreement has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, as foreign treaties are ratified by the Riigikogu. Secondly, I want to know whose interests are still most affected by this vaccination thing. Today's case in Valkla's nursing home, where the coercive vaccination was carried out, is the economic interests of vaccine producers linked to the WHO agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-08_U134	Mr. Grünthal, your five minutes are unfortunately over. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more requests. We are well off today's agenda. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Have a good night.
