ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! I will open the Monday session of the 6th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, please, hand over the drafts and inquiries. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U2	Dear Riigikogu! Last week, the Minister of Foreign Affairs came to the Riigikogu, who in his speech, among other things, said that, like other countries, good relations with China are extremely important for Estonia, that Estonia recognises one Chinese policy and that there is no intention to change it. And he called Taiwan a region of China. Regrettably, the views expressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in particular the reference to one of the Chinese policies, allow Estonia's position to be interpreted as supporting the activities of the People's Republic of China in establishing its power over indigenous peoples and the abandonment of the right to self-determination of indigenous peoples. Such a step would be clearly contrary to the objectives set out in the foreign policy development plan adopted by the Government of the Republic on 9 July 2020 and would seriously call into question the value-based nature of Estonian foreign policy. As a result, I will report an inquiry to the Foreign Minister. It contains eight questions concerning Estonia's policy in China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U3	Eduard Odines, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U4	Yes, Mr President, there is a procedural question. I have a very serious concern at the moment: in a situation where Estonia is at the forefront of infection with Corona in Europe and the virus spreads quite quickly, especially at the workplace, I see at least six people who have no mask on when I look around this hall. Just in case, I also checked the Health and Safety at Work Act. The law states that the employer must design the workplace in such a way as to prevent health damage and to preserve workers' ability to work and well-being. I understand that a member of the Riigikogu is not a normal employee within the meaning of this law, but it still extends to our workplace in this Chamber because this hall is our job. Is it possible for the Bureau or the chair to do something to ensure that colleagues in this room wear a mask and do not put other people's health at risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U5	Thank you. It was not a procedural question, but I fully share your concerns. The board has done so in the past, and I am also putting the heart of our good colleagues here that we are setting an example for everyone, the entire Estonian people, by doing what is appropriate and right in the current situation and as the Health Board recommends. Wear a mask! Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U6	I just want to say to my concerned colleague that last week teleworking was voted here precisely on the grounds that whoever is worried goes to teleworking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U7	Thank you. Looks like there's no more questions. We're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U8	92 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and the Management Board decides on its further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. And now let's go to the specification and approval of the agenda. The third item on the agenda of today's sitting was the inquiry for the quality of education submitted by the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna, under the conditions of the Coronary Crisis, No 49. However, as a result of a ministerial illness, the reply to this question is postponed. Therefore, this item is not on today's agenda. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the approval of the 6th working week agenda of the V Plenary Session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U9	There are 85 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U10	Today's first item is the political statement by Prime Minister Kallas on the situation of the corona virus. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I recall our rules of procedure. First of all, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has a political statement for up to 15 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu may then ask the Prime Minister an oral question. After that, negotiations will be opened, during which all political groups will be able to speak, with a speaking time of 5 + 3 minutes. I would first like to ask Prime Minister Kallas for a political statement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U11	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Happy people of Estonia! The new government has been in office for four weeks and, as I said, the government's top priority is to cope with the crisis in the choronapandemia. Therefore, I am happy to give the Riigikogu an overview of how to deal with it in Estonia. We've had to live with the virus for almost a year. This has meant, in many respects, seeking a balance between closing and keeping Estonia open, the resilience of the medical system and the functioning of society. These are serious decisions that concern all Estonian people. I would like us to be able to remain dignified in dealing with the corona crisis. Let's not make the COVID-19 crisis a regular party squabble! We do not need a struggle to maximise the political benefits of the corona crisis. Last spring, during the first wave of the pandemic, the opposition of the Riigikogu did not show any controversy compared to what the critics of today's government, or largely the same people who were in the government themselves a month ago. For those who accuse the new government of mitigating the restrictions, it should be recalled that the decision to mitigate the restrictions was taken by the Central Party, the EKRE and the Fatherland government on 15 January. When did the new government take office? January 26th. So what did the new government do right away? On 29 January, we decided, as proposed by the Scientific Advisory Board, to harmonise the restrictions into all-Estonian ones. I still believe that harmonisation, which meant more severe restrictions for most of Estonia's counties, was justified. I believe, too, that the distinction that was made in December was not sufficiently justified in the small and close Estonia. It was likely to give an additional impulse to spread the virus to less infected areas in the past. The spread of the Corona virus is very serious. The intensity of the disease remains very high and the spread of the virus is widespread. Stress and fatigue increase in society due to limited living arrangements. However, in the longer term, there is reason to be more hopeful than ever. At the beginning of this year, we launched the vaccination and it allows us to live with the virus in such a way that Estonia remains open. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We still have an emergency. The government makes its decisions by monitoring a number of indicators, one of the most important being the capacity of the hospital network. According to Urmas Sule, Head of Emergency Health Department, the current capacity of Estonian hospitals to treat COVID patients is 755 beds, 67 of which have intensive care capabilities. In total, 7.4% of the patients have been in need of hospital care. There are currently 525 patients in the hospital and 26 patients in the respiratory system controlled by them. The numbers are large, but if you find something positive in them, it is that our medical system has been able to treat people in such a way that the number of patients on controlled breathing and the mortality rate of COVID patients in Estonia has been quite low. We allocated EUR 621000 from the government reserve for the purchase of Remdesivir, which greatly alleviates the severe course of the disease. There have been 540 fatal cases in Estonia, or 0.9% of COVID-19 cases. This leads to the conclusion that the testing system is good in Estonia, we quickly find the sick and the treatment of the patients is effective. Thanks to our doctors and all the medical staff for that! Honourable Riigikogu! The rapid spread of the virus is a major concern. Since November last year, when the second wave reached Estonia, the number of positive tests per day has increased dramatically, and the proportion of positive tests has fluctuated between 7 and 15%. A total of 895345 laboratory tests have been confirmed, of which 58445 or 6.5% have been positive. Where do people get infected? The coronal investigators of the Health Board have established that during the last month the infection has mainly occurred in the family circle (32% of cases) and at work (14% of cases). But what's worrying is that in 33% of cases, we don't really know where people get infected. This shows that the epidemic spread of the virus is widespread in Estonia and can be obtained from anywhere where distance is not kept, such as shopping centres, public transport and so on. The increased human risk associated with the spread of the corona virus contributes to the high infection. People's perception of danger has fallen steadily since the beginning of January. At the beginning of February, 52% of the population rated the situation as critical. This figure was 75% in December. 31% estimate that the acute crisis is over. And there is still a risk group of 11%, which is of the opinion that the situation has never been critical. Getting the virus under control is up to all of us, and it's up to all of us. Research has shown that the most effective means of controlling the virus are those resulting from human behavior and diligence, or self - care and other care. Only by acting responsibly towards ourselves and others can we keep the infection low and the life of Estonia as open as possible. We made such an effort in the spring. We kept our distance, worked from home, surrounded our contacts, and stayed home sick. These were our success factors, why we were at the forefront of our low levels of infection and were able to avoid any disruption of the medical system. Medical staff have done self - sacrificing work and we must continue to protect the medical system from overload. We are also making efforts to make sure that the residents of welfare institutions can spend their old age safely. I believe that the people who work in care facilities have taken it to heart to achieve this. The government has not knowingly done very strict and even more restrictive things, or they have gone down the path chosen by our neighbouring countries. We apply the restrictions that are inevitable and which aim to reduce people's interaction in places where the risk of infection and spread of the virus is greatest. We have approached on a problem-based basis, intervened where there are fireplaces, and dealt with their causes. Let us try to avoid the mistakes shown by the previous school break. We are trying to prevent people from moving and coming into contact between different regions. By imposing restrictions, we assessed the impact of any restriction on both the economy and people, because in addition to the visible victims, we also have invisible victims. Since the beginning of the corona crisis, unemployment in Estonia has risen to 8.8%, even to 14.6% in Ida-Viru County. How big there are in education, we don't know yet. And that's why basic school finals are compulsory this year, but they're tied away from graduating. Mental health problems are difficult to measure, but we all feel the fatigue of crisis. That is why we have made restrictions according to the opinions of experts and scientists. The weekly discussions with the Scientific Advisory Board and the Health Board provide the best possible and balanced picture of the spread of the virus in Estonia, its causes and what we should do in the next steps. We will continue this effort so that we can make decisions based on research and knowledge, assess these impacts and keep our country open. And now from the vaccination, which is an even greater concern than the loss of sense of danger. I must admit that there have been more problems with vaccination than we expected. One thing is that there is a general vaccine deficit in Europe, but it would certainly have been possible to think things through better and to start planning vaccination earlier. We have already spoken in May in opposition that summer must be used to prepare vaccination. But the previous government decided for the first time to discuss the vaccination plan on 27 November and the next time on 15 December. It could have been done much sooner. As you know, there is a general shortage of vaccines in the European Union, the quantities allowed and the actual deliveries do not match. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, Estonia has so far received a total of 121470 doses of corona vaccine from three manufacturers in the framework of the joint procurement of the European Union, of which 88790 doses have been used as of this morning. Frontline vaccination is carried out at hospital vaccination offices and other health care providers, and at risk groups are vaccinated at family doctor's centres. Since May, when the wider vaccination of the population begins, temporary vaccination centres will be added. As of 22 February, 62415 people have been vaccinated, i.e. more than a positive diagnosis of the coronavirus. 26375 people have been vaccinated with two doses. From the age of 50 to 59, vaccination coverage is 12.1%, aged 80 to 89 is 20%, compared with 19% for older than 90 years. Our elderly have set a good example of active participation in vaccination. I have given guidelines to the Minister for Health and Labour that we must increase the number of people vaccinated daily. To do this, we must take advantage of every day, including weekends, to inject risk groups, teachers, policemen and everyone else. The rate of vaccination has increased in recent days and last week a record of 20322 people were vaccinated. Of course, there could always be more, but as I said, it is very much related to the fact that the vaccine is simply not. In addition to the above, the responsibility of each of us is very important. I put it on everyone's mind that if your doctor asks you to take the vaccine, take it! It is very difficult to hear the news that family sisters must overcome huge obstacles to convincing invited ones. The more people we can vaccinate, the greater the public's defence against COVID-19. Every shot counts! Good listeners! Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the greatest impact on the spread of the virus is on everyone's own behaviour. I put it to everyone's heart: reduce contact with other people, stay home! If work allows, then let us be at our home office; it will have a major impact on reducing the spread of the virus. If you can't do long-distance work, wear a mask at work and keep your distance! It's the anniversary of the Republic this week. In order to prevent the spread of the virus, the traditional large gatherings of people have been removed and I urge people to celebrate the anniversary of the Republic this year at home and in a small circle. And so do you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, who communicate with many people! You are an example, invite people to stay home this year and not to gather in the great crowds. I'm glad I could give you this overview, and I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U12	Prime Minister, indeed, there are a number of questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the length of the question is up to one minute. First Peter Ernits asks, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U13	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! In his time, Prime Minister Ansip promised to transfer Estonia to the first five countries of Europe. In less than four weeks, you have now moved Estonia to the world's first five countries on the subject of korona. When you started, 467 corona positives were added on 26 January. Today, less than four weeks later, 829 were added, and soon, in a few weeks' time, there will be 1500/2000. My question to you is, what have you missed? It can no longer be said that this is a failure of the previous government. To be honest, your government has done a crazy spatter. What have you missed, and when will you impose an emergency situation? Or would you rather let people die and get infected and hope that the economy doesn't collapse?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U14	Thank you. In the case of restrictions, it is known that they will have an effect after approximately four weeks, after two, three, four weeks. That's what everyone's admitted. For example, at today's meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, Professor Merits admitted that the decision to open schools led to a rapid increase in infection. On 15 January, the previous government decided to significantly alleviate the restrictions, and we are seeing this result today. The result of these restrictions, which we have now imposed, will be seen in four weeks' time respectively. If you say that Estonians are the people of the ranking religion and constantly want to see where we are in the rankings, then we are the fifth in Europe in terms of the rate of vaccination. However, we have managed to get the vaccination going quite well. Of course, it could be much better, but in any case, we are moving at an ever better rate every week, and as soon as more vaccines are needed, we can speed up the pace. Right now, it's stuck in a lot of deficit. Now, you asked about the emergency situation. You are a member of the Riigikogu and you know that we have amended the laws so that the government can give all orders without imposing an emergency situation. A special situation is needed when the army needs to be brought to the street. My recommendation to you as an EKRE member is to invite your people not to come on a torch tournament. Why do you call on people to gather in large crowds in different parts of Estonia when you know that it actually promotes the spread of the virus? All scientists in the scientific council say stay home, reduce your exposure to other people by at least 20%. We ourselves set an example. I went to the Special Audit Committee of the Riigikogu. It's a small room. You can make a video meeting in a small room. On the one hand, the chairman of the committee says that he is very concerned about the spread of the virus, but on the other hand, people who do not wear a mask sit there and sit less than two metres away from each other. I couldn't go any further than that either. If it had been there, and maybe there was one positive, then this whole company is out of order and carrying on the virus. Why take such risks when the Riigikogu also has the opportunity to work from a distance, to do its meetings by video, not to gather together next to each other! This is what we can and should all set an example for others.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U15	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U16	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I'm glad you finally showed up in front of this Parliament, and you finally made time for that. I hope that you will finally convince both us and the Estonian public that the situation that is getting out of hand is still under your control. Throughout last week, you avoided Parliament and you did not seem to have solutions or answers to the situation. Then a petition has already been initiated to demand your resignation, with more than 2,000 signatures gathered in 48 hours. But I hope you will be able to keep up with the developments in a situation where there was a Tartu marathon with over 4,000 participants, where people, at least judging by the photo gallery, were mostly in close contact. And even though schools are focused on distance learning, all school vacation trips are sold out. How it ended last year, we know that. Let's hope you have a plan for the consequences. But I have a very specific question, and it's about vaccination. Very many people in Estonia have been interested in this. Tell me if there will be or will not be a forced vaccination! This would give some idea of the direction the Estonian state is going in during this government and what its citizens will have to take into account in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U17	Please respect the time to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U18	Thank you. First, the Tartu Marathon. The government of EKRE, the Centre Party and the Fatherland gave special permission for the Tartu Marathon. This was a special permit for the event and could not be taken away. It was still your decision. As regards vaccination, vaccination is voluntary in Estonia. And volunteering means you can refuse if you want to refuse. But my strong recommendation is to listen to doctors. If doctors recommend vaccination, vaccination should be carried out. And the doctors here have shown a good example of the practice of having nearly 90% of doctors vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U19	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You said, first of all, let's not do politics when we discuss the corona issue. But with the next sentence, you began to push all the responsibility for the current situation on the back of the previous government, while forgetting that the minister responsible for the field is the same man today. Is it possible from your accusations against the previous government that there's a mistrust or that Minister Swing is losing his place? That's the first question I'm gonna ask. And two: why did your employer have to wait so long for your reply to be heard, when could you come to this Parliament to talk about the coronation? Why did you delay your answer for almost a week and a half? (Echo Kallas: "What are you talking about? ") A year ago, you asked the Prime Minister to come here right now, now and now, and when the Prime Minister came in one day, you were not happy with it. I would like to ask the answers to these two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U21	Thank you. First of all, I haven't been hiding in any way. I was here in front of you on Wednesday, answering your questions for two hours. Secondly, as far as Prime Minister Ratas came before the Riigikogu, it was then that Prime Minister Ratas wanted to come here with a political statement that he wanted to come here on Tuesday after voting on the draft referendum. Our question was why he didn't come right away, it was so urgent. It wasn't right now. In the case of a political statement, the Prime Minister's choice is when and how he will do it. This cannot be demanded by the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu can, of course, invite the Prime Minister to an information session and to all committees. And that is where I have come, and today I have already participated in the work of two committees. As far as the Minister of Social Affairs is concerned, the government is making decisions collectively. And as far as I have been able to get to know the materials, there has been a party that is not a party of the Minister of Social Affairs, but who was against the purchase of vaccines for a very long time. And thanks to the fact that two other parties actually pushed forcefully, we still have these vaccines. Otherwise, we would be in a situation in Latvia that did not buy these vaccines, and as a result Malta and Denmark will actually be able to use Latvia's quantities at the moment. So this responsibility is collective. But now is not the time to look for the guilty. I understand you want to make me guilty of what has been done all this time. But I'm just pointing out that I've been in the government for four weeks. Of course, I'm in charge from here, but it's not just to point the finger at me when it's actually been a very long crisis. And I'm not saying that the previous government was wrong in the big picture. No, I don't think so, but right now we know the effect of these decisions is a long one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U22	Thank you. Mart Helme, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U23	I want to point out that the Prime Minister is lying when he says that one party in the previous government was against buying vaccines. As a member of the previous government, I can say that this was a question of discussing details: what deadlines, which prices, what amounts. This is not an objection, it is an explanation of the facts and a maximum result. But to say we were against is direct lying. All the more so because he wasn't there and he didn't know exactly what he was arguing about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U24	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U25	Thank you. Prime Minister! I am also pleased to see you here in the Riigikogu. Thank you for this report. I agree with people's individual responsibility, but with certain reservations. Because people do not have a big picture and they come from completely different circumstances than is necessary to regulate the crisis. Here, however, the Government of the Republic has a major role to play, and to say the opposite would mean that the Government does not matter. But you said you were looking for a balance between the ability of the medical system, the resilience of society and the sustainability of the economy. Is there any way you can expand the way you do it? What formula? Have you changed anything compared to the previous government? Can you explain a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U26	Thank you. First of all, I have to tell Mart Helme that I did not say that the EKRE was against. That's what you said. But when you felt touched, there was some truth. I said there was a party in the government that said it was against. But that's it. Coming to this question, I think in the big picture we are going in the same direction that the previous government took. Everything needs to be considered. Of course, on one side there are very clear numbers: how many people are in the hospital, what is the rate of infection and how many people give a positive test every day. It is known how many people are controlled by breathing. These are very precisely measurable numbers. But on the other side there are numbers that aren't so easy to find out. One is unemployment, the other is gaps in education for children. Like I said, we don't really know these numbers right now. We see from last year's exam results that the picture was worse in all classes than it was in the past. But last year, the exams weren't mandatory. This year, the Minister of Education and Research has proposed that the exams be compulsory, but not related to graduating. Exams are needed precisely because we actually have an overview of the educational gaps. Based on studies conducted elsewhere in the world, educational gaps certainly exist. And when there are educational gaps, there will also be major social divisions, because one will amplify the other. All these numbers are very difficult to put into perspective, there is a great deal of sense in the game. But just as the previous government was trying to sense these different processes, so must we, trying to find a balance. On the one hand, there is a need to keep the spread of the disease under adequate control, on the other hand, it is necessary to keep society as open as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U27	Mart Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U28	I must point out that we did not have any dual understanding. This one party meant our party, because the Prime Minister looked to our group in a completely unequivocal way and refused to answer Mr Pohlak's question as to whether he was dissatisfied with the activities of Tanel Kiige, who was responsible for the same area of affairs, for the corona issues in the previous government. The conclusion is one: he does not criticise his partner party in the current government and apparently not the Fatherland. And his completely unambiguous look towards our group was very eloquent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U29	Thank you. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I've asked you a couple of times, but I'm gonna ask you again because it's gotten worse between Valga and Valka. The Latvian border guard is carefully supervised. It is now being demanded that if someone wants to go to Latvia on the Estonian side, a sample must have been taken and the proof of a negative sample may be only 48 hours old. As I understand it, our government, led by you, doesn't give a shit: let the Latvians cross the border and bring their virus to us. All Estonian shops are full of Latvians. And nothing will be done by our government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U31	In Latvia, the infected numbers are lower than in Estonia. In this sense, we still have a problem within the country. The Latvians bringing us this virus must not be a real threat. As of now, we must fight the virus inside our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U32	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U33	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will start by quoting your post from 15 December 2020. This is how it is: "Now I'm talking about what else we need to do. Firstly, we need a very clear plan for the next few months to break the Corona contagion curve and then to keep the virus at a level so that we can keep the most necessary services in society open. [---] I am convinced that such a plan can be put together if we do not engage in political self-prevention and substitution activities. " And now I dare ask what your plan is. Specifically, what do you know is the number or proportion of immunised people in the population needed to achieve herd immunity, and what is the deadline you set to achieve this objective?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U34	Thank you. Indeed, you are right that there has been no clear plan so far, and that is the plan we have been working on. The aim is to have 60 to 70% of people either vaccinated or antibody-infected. That size would be 680000 people. When can we achieve this? We should move at such a rate that we have a circum 35,000 vaccinations per week to finally achieve this number. But there are also those who have antibodies. Only yesterday I received information that once it was investigated how many people have antibodies, it has turned out that at present there are slightly more than 10% of people who have antibodies. This adds to the number of vaccinees. At the current rate, we are moving because, as I said, in the case of vaccination, the neck of the bottle is, above all, that we do not have enough vaccines. But we will also have to deal with how to get out of the world in different areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U35	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U36	Prime Minister! Journalist Nils Niitra says that the protection system in Estonia is too complex and inefficient, regional discrimination has been created. He meant Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa, where, at the same time, quite a lot of people are not going to be vaccinated. This is why other regions of Estonia are suffering. I ask you how to get to those who actually want to vaccinate, who need it, but they won't. Is there a communication problem or something else? In Latvia, for example, there is a website where everyone writes that they are ready to vaccinate. It would ease the selection of who wants it, who doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U37	Thank you. I'll start from the back. Latvia has a system, but there are no vaccines. People still can't get the vaccine, even though there's a place to register. The main problem not only in Latvia but also in Estonia is that we have a shortage of vaccines. If we had enough vaccines for everyone, if all those 4.5 million doses were there, the digital registration office could work. The digital registration office will be operational from mid-March, so I'm allowed right now. That's where you can register for vaccination. I agree with you that this system is a little too complicated right now. Why is it complicated? This is complicated because we have included teachers, rescuers, police officers, frontline workers in the vaccination of high-risk groups. It's making the system a little complicated. Lists are needed of those who are entitled to receive the vaccine. But it all falls away when we have enough vaccines so that we can vaccinate all the people we want.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U38	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U39	Prime Minister! Recently, such a bad story happened that our doctor, Peep Talving, was thrown in the face with urine, which also light up his eye on the cornea. But a good doctor, as he is, he took the urine residue from the canister and went to the regional hospital to test the ER. Next, Peep Talving spoke about the following on "Ringview." "It seemed to me that there were small amounts of HIV left over. We did a well-sensitive PCR test, but fortunately we didn't. " This means that, in principle, these test results can be manipulated. One minute it's HIV, and the other minute it's not. Similar anomalies have been found in Paide's nursing home, where the initial test showed that there was an infected person, but after that it turned out it wasn't. And there's been more and more. I would remind you that the cost of testing at these 895000 tests has so far been EUR 52 million. I have a question: do you intend to take control of the testing so that such manipulations take place and that the number of people infected by us does not increase so much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U40	Thank you. I have no record of the manipulations you're talking about. These tests are reliable, that's what we've been talking about. Yeah, they're very sensitive, that's also known. But the positive side is that we're getting to know the virus carriers early and maybe that's how we're gonna prevent a lot of infections. As for the price of these tests, the price has gone down. But this price is also very different from one Member State to another. The previous government has allocated money to carry out these tests, and I think that greater testing will provide an opportunity to detect cases early and thus prevent serious cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U41	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U42	Thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Let's talk immunity, talk vaccination. After a person has received his or her injection or a few injections or otherwise gained immunity, he or she is three or four months or six months as if she or she were healthy and could move around freely. Now the question is, what is the mark that he must bear? How can he prove that he doesn't have to wear a mask, that he's healthy if he wants to go abroad or in some kind of company? What are the features or documents he must bear or how can he prove it? What are the plans of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U43	Thank you, that is a very good question! Because this is where we're part of the world now. Estonia is the leader here. Estonia is working with the World Health Organisation to develop such a layer of data exchange. How does it work? It works like our X-Road system, as our ID card works. Digital vaccination passes will be created. Basically, there's two layers. One is that countries say, for example, who in Estonia can issue proof that you have been vaccinated. For example, you've been to PERH for an injection, PERH gives you that proof, and the Health Department says yes, PERH has the right to give that proof, and it goes into that database. The second layer, however, is how it will work in practice. In practice, it would work like this, so you basically have this QR code. For example, you're gonna go to the edge and show it to me. As you remember, in the old days, when we were still traveling, it was like you had a boarding pass and the remote showed you if you had green or red. In principle, it should do the same. Estonia has developed this pilot project in cooperation with the World Health Organisation. The important thing, of course, is that all countries are on board there. There will be a European Council on Thursday and Friday, and there will be a debate about it. I can introduce this project and convince the others to come with us to that boat. What's important is that these little yellow books that show vaccinations, they're actually pretty easy to fake. It would be much better if there were such a data exchange layer. That doesn't mean our data is going somewhere, just one database interacts with another database. It's a valid document, and it can work. So this really is a global, wider problem, and I am very pleased that Estonia is the leader in solving it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U44	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U45	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We already have a little introduction to you. This morning we were together in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, where we addressed these issues. I stayed there, and I still have a really lame taste in my mouth from the discussion in the big hall right now. You still don't understand that you are the Prime Minister, that you have a responsibility. Nobody cares about what the previous government did or didn't do. We need your plan! And I also don't understand that you're saying that the marathon was decided by the previous government and can't be canceled, but the Freeh Treaty can be canceled, the construction of four-line highways can be canceled, the gates of immigration can be opened, but that poor marathon can't be canceled. You know you're the Prime Minister and you're running the government, right? But I still have the same question that I had in the committee. We have, on the whole, two options: whether we say we want to keep the economy and society open, and as a result, there are higher rates of infection and more deaths, or whether we want to keep the infection indicator down, the deaths down, and its consequences must be compensated for by companies. Which is the basic direction of your government? You're not giving us any identity. We want the whole community to understand what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U46	Thank you. Yes, I am, of course I am responsible for these decisions. But it's funny to hear from you that after I've been prime minister for four weeks, I can't tell you that. You told me for two years that we were in power for 17 years, and so on. We've all heard that story. Maybe I'm overemphasising it again. What is the purpose of our plan? The objective of the plan is to prevent a very heavy burden on the medical system. The continuity of the medical system is the goal, and these are the numbers we use. The other side of this equation really is to keep the economy open, but it is possible to the extent that we can keep the burden of the medical system so that our nurses, doctors and the medical system in general can withstand. This is the place of balance you were looking for just like our government is looking for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U47	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You know, my dad had a nice saying. When someone was talking about what it was like to realize that he doesn't really know what he's talking about, and he doesn't believe what he's saying, Dad said, "My dear man, you have no idea." I want to say exactly the same to your report: Prime Minister, you have no idea! I read on the news that sewage samples indicate that we may be up to 2,000 infections a day. I know from statistics that last year around 9,000 people died of cardiovascular disease, an apology, every life is important, but I say 'round', about 3,000 and shortly after, cancer died, and that's how thousands of people down the line died of other diseases. We have died in Corona, as you yourself said, a little over 500 people in a year. If we really get infected...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U49	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U50	... a few thousand cases a day, then whether there is a plan, whether there is a financial resource, a plan to relocate doctors, breathing appliances and everything else necessary to deal with it so that we...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U52	...didn't die of vascular disease, cancer, etc. grow exponentially either?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U53	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to you that in the face of all the terrible pictures you painted, you are calling on people to gather in large numbers in different places in Estonia on 24 February. Why are you doing this? Don't do it, you'll be credible. Wear a mask, too! Very many in your group do not wear a mask, including you. You know there's a suggestion to wear a mask indoors, keep a distance, etc. As far as other patients are concerned, the planned treatment is currently not limited. At the moment, we have been able to move forward in such a way that the planned treatment is fully available. And the numbers that I was talking about at the beginning are based on the fact that these numbers have to be upset by the planned treatment. This means that it is indeed more difficult for people with high blood pressure or patients with oncology to get medical attention. But that's not what we want, and our goal is that we don't have to limit scheduled treatment. If the infection number goes beyond a certain limit, there's a risk that we'll need more beds.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U54	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! It's nice to see that you've taken courage and come out of hiding, and now you're standing right in front of us. But here's my question. To date, the corona epidemic has been around here in Estonia for almost a year now, and the year is enough time for scientists to make analyses and conclusions on the behaviour of the virus. For example, how the spread of the virus and the virus are affected by external temperatures, summer heat, or winter frosts. Or how the measures put in place so far, whether masks or disinfectants or restrictions on the activities of human institutions, have affected the spread of the virus. And how do you explain that even though we have such valuable data on virus behaviour in our environment, the rates of infection continue to rise? And I ask you not to start blaming the previous government again! Because at the time we had the previous government, we didn't have all that data. For example, there was no such shit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U56	Thank you. I've just received information about the effects of the pack, just like you did. Andres Merits spoke about this in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. And the effect on the virus is that when the weather is cold, the windows are closed and the humidity is different and the virus spreads better in the rooms. This has been concluded by the way all the other viruses behave. That's why, yeah, in summer, there's generally relief, it's a seasonal virus. It's knowing what we have, and you probably had it four weeks ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U57	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! You were recently extremely critical of handling the marriage referendum during the Coronary Apandemia. But when it was discussed, we were in a pretty good position in terms of an epidemic compared to today. And what do I hear about the primary priorities of the new government lately? It is the law of hate speech, the law of hate speech. How, now that we have pushed our contagion into the first five countries, has such a law suddenly become so important in order to restrict freedom of expression? Only recently did you stress that nothing else should be dealt with much, but only with a pandemic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U59	Thank you. That's not a bill. I understand you guys have whipped up a lot of foam, but there's no such a bill right now. Everyone's talking about something that doesn't exist. We are not discussing this right now in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. And I still believe that this matter of referendum actually got people tired of having a weaker immune system. People are frustrated. But that's it. I repeat, there is no such bill right now. We will discuss this when this bill exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U60	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question is about tourism, or spas, more narrowly. I've also been in touch with a couple of spa leaders today. I understand that it is relatively difficult to make forthcoming decisions at operational level. However, when making a decision to close spas, you need to think about how to offer some compensation. Spa leaders say that what can actually happen is that two weeks is not enough, this time may be longer. Their agenda depends on it. However, the main question is whether the state will come to their aid in any way. Labor taxes continue to be deferred payments in March last year, and now new ones are coming, so the problems actually pile up. Is it true that some of these mitigation measures will be discussed on 25 February?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U62	Thank you. We briefly discussed last Thursday how to alleviate the situation. On the other hand, it is understandable that in a crisis everyone must play their part. I'm sure we can't pay for everything. But we have, yes, planned to discuss it and send out messages as soon as possible about what the situation is and how we can approach the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U63	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! When will decisions be taken on further restrictions that should apply after 8 March? Employers complain to the government about lack of communication and unclear messages about restrictions. You're shutting down sports clubs for group training, but you're allowing up to 200 spectators to perform. Thursday's decision was to close the spas for two weeks starting today. The greatest concern is the lack of government communication and the making of commitments in the media in relation to support for workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U65	Thank you. Firstly, we have not made any promises until we have clear what is possible. People have certainly speculated on these subsidies, but we certainly have not made any promises. As far as further restrictions are concerned, on Tuesday, perhaps tomorrow, we will be discussing the situation. The scientific council, I know, is meeting today, maybe we need to impose further restrictions. I also explain why there is a ban on sports clubs and why not on performances. Group trainings are activities considered by the Scientific Advisory Board to be activities of higher risk. There, sweat can literally squirt and then spread the virus, while people in the show sit behind each other in masks, and there is also a requirement to be scattered. There is no contact with other people, or at least the risk of a drop-in infection is not so bad. Concert organizers, performance agencies make sure people wear masks when they come in the building. If you're gonna play a ticket, you're gonna have to wear a mask. But you can't do that in sports clubs. For me, however, the main problem is that people are not really aware of ownership. I say, for example, about employers, that we asked employers to send people to teleworking. We cannot impose such a rule in the government, but we can see that the virus is spreading a lot in the workplace. However, employers say that people are tired and there is no such opportunity. At the same time, there are different employers who simply cannot send their people to their homework, and we should show solidarity with them. But you shouldn't spread the view that someone else is doing something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U66	Thank you. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U67	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! When you were in this opposition, you were always talking about having a plan to fight COVID and put it behind you. And now today you're saying that you're making this plan. Please take out the plan you had, and you can go straight ahead, you don't have to do anything. But I want to ask you this. Today, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Ministry of Finance gave a presentation on the economy and crisis measures. And it was noted that there are two countries in Europe, Estonia and Belarus, where there is no income support for people who have lost their jobs and for those who are unable to work. Do you have any measures for us and the people of Estonia today that are in work or are coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U68	First of all, I've never talked about overcoming the virus, that's what the previous prime minister said. I've been telling you that we're learning to live with the virus, that the virus isn't going anywhere. And I still think so. And we have a plan. This plan is just dynamic and changes according to how these numbers change. I said what are the goals on which we make our decisions. When we have talked about what plan we are developing, we mean a plan to get out of this crisis. Those are two different things. And the unemployment benefit is in place regardless of the crisis, it works. I may not have quite understood your question, but we have an unemployment fund to help those people who have left the job.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U69	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U70	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister Kallas! The numbers are cruel. Today's statistics: 1.3 million Estonian people, 829 new cases; 5.5 million Finnish people, 390 new cases. It's not a failure, it's a total failure, it's a disaster. As we've heard from your unsavory report, you're talking about some sort of voluminous or dynamic plan. But you don't really have a plan. By comparison, the British. The British had a plan, they had intermediate stages, they were louder. They carried out their plan, even overstepped it, got the disease under control. And as Prime Minister Johnson said on Saturday, by the end of July, all adult British will be vaccinated. But the British are lucky that they are no longer part of the European Union; they do not have to wait for some vaccine obtained under the Brussels Comrades' Union-wide distribution plan. By the way, Denmark promised that by 27 June all applicants would be vaccinated. I have two questions for you. Is there a person or an institution in Estonia who would be looking for additional vaccines? And what happens to these people... You said at this rate... (President: "Thank you!") ...in about 20 weeks we'll be vaccinated in one round. But then we'll have to start the second round right away. Do you have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U71	Thank you. It's interesting to make an example of the British. Look how many people have died out there as a result of this disease! If we look at the mortality rate, it is, by the way, lower than in Finland, and it has been this way all along. As for the vaccine plan, as I said, there is no plan. This is beyond the unwillingness of the previous government. Right now, we're working on it, and we're moving to get 70% of the people vaccinated. As I said before, the problem is that we don't really have enough vaccines. We don't have as many vaccines as we need. By what time do we get all the people vaccinated? The aim now is to start vaccination for all people in May, because then we should have enough vaccines. A total of 4.5 million doses of vaccines have been ordered to cover 2.6 million people. But since there are fewer applicants, we need to make a positive campaign so that people still allow themselves to be vaccinated so that society can be adequately protected. By the time it succeeds, it depends on when we get those vaccines. And the other problem is that if the disease goes down in the spring and summer anyway, people might get the wrong impression that they don't need vaccination. But we should use the summer for that. However, since there will be no coercive vaccination, it is voluntary, much depends on the will of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U72	Peter Ernits, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U73	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I listened with interest when you spoke about how coronavir can be overcome. The corona virus is known to be round and hairy and has no back. How do you get away with this round thing? [[They're saying something.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U74	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U75	Thank you! Prime Minister! In addition to the overall level of infection, it is, of course, necessary to look at how quickly the virus spreads. Both indicators are important. And in this context, the members of the previous government could undoubtedly take a more modest line. On 5 November, when the second wave just started and the scientific council recommended that the restrictions be applied more quickly in the beginning in order to prevent the emergence of a high plateau, they were ignored. That's why we reached such a high level by the beginning of the new year that we were at when you took office. And, of course, we also have to take into account the increase in the coefficient of infection from 1 to 1, which, of course, amplifies the risks because the plateau was already very high. Minister Kiik said today in the Special Committee on State Budget Control that if the government rejected some of the proposals of the Scientific Advisory Board last week for various reasons, he said that this meant that the decisions taken by the government were not really enough to bring the infection coefficient down to one. Do you agree with your Minister for Social Affairs that the decisions taken by the government were not enough to bring the infection down? And if you are, why did the government make inadequate decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U76	Thank you. Let us look at these specific limitations. Some of the restrictions proposed by the Scientific Advisory Board were not restrictions, but recommendations that the government cannot impose. They simply could not be established as rules in any way. In general, however, we followed very clearly the proposal of the Scientific Advisory Board. The only difference concerned the opening hours of the catering establishments and the time for the provision of entertainment services: whether it is allowed until 21:00 or 19:00. And the reason was that if the catering stations are open longer, they can make 'two cover' and we can avoid that people are gathering somewhere at the same time. Institutions can thus disperse all their activities because people come at different times. But, as I said, the scientific council will probably discuss these issues today, and we will discuss them tomorrow. I agree with you that the numbers are very frightening. These limits, which we have now established, are only 3 to 4 weeks from now. The problem is, then we can't come back in time and rethink these decisions. So in this sense, we must certainly listen to what we are told. The easiest way is, of course, to say we're closing everything. It's also one way to say it's all going down. But it's got the other way around, the other way around, the price at the expense of children's education and mental health. All economic indicators are the same on the other side. But if the main objective is to keep the medical system as operational as possible, then, of course, in the case of such numbers, we must apply stricter restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U77	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U78	Prime Minister! The pandemic poses a major threat to the various cycles of the world. And there are two ways out of it, as has been said today. There's gotta be a mass immunity. We know that in Ida-Virumaa, the big problem is that the Estonian people's information space is largely outside our republic. As a result, of course, the problem is that the desire for vaccination is not as great as in other Estonian regions. What is the government's plan so that we can explain this issue more to our people so that both medics and other people in Ida-Virumaa can deal more with this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U79	Thank you. Firstly, among the Russian population in Estonia, ETV+ is a very significant channel, even the ERR channels in Russian. In fact, research has been carried out on this crisis, according to which very many will receive information from it. But we have a plan to make a positive inclusion campaign in these regions, in particular, in Russian and with those who are important to them, in order to reach the people who need support in this regard. Ida-Viru County is generally aware of these dangers, but there is a different pattern of behaviour. We need opinion leaders who speak better to the population there so that they decide to get vaccinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U80	Oudekki Loone, please! The mike's out. We can't hear you. The microphone's out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U81	Do I hear now? Thank you. Prime Minister! Jüri Ratas' government had a very clear principle. In managing the corona crisis, we must not consider whether lives or the economy, lives or jobs. Both are important, both must be protected. People can't have a choice whether I'm going to die of coronation or starvation. I was pleased to hear from your speech that the current government wishes to continue in this direction. However, I would like to remind you that if, in the interests of public health, we restrict production, employment and entrepreneurship as a country, for example, we close water centres, then the damage suffered by workers and businesses must be compensated to a reasonable extent. For example, last year's wage subsidy made it possible to retain very important jobs in Estonia and the sectoral aid measures prevented the major recession predicted. The fact that we have jobs today, that we do not have 30 or 40% unemployment, is precisely because of strong state intervention. Are you planning on continuing this reasonable course? If the state, in order to protect health, protect lives, avoid the overload of the medical system, temporarily prohibits any kind of work, closes companies, closes the whole sector, does the social partners receive reasonable compensation for these losses?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U82	Thank you. Yes, I absolutely agree that there are lives on one side and that there are lives on the other. And certainly the decisions of the previous government concerning wage subsidies have been correct. Now the question is whether we can do this more purposefully. It is just that we still do not know how long this crisis will last and how much money we have in the end. But on Thursday, we are discussing support measures to keep this course.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U83	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U84	Thank you! Good Prime Minister! About a year ago, former Prime Minister Siim Kallas said that the Estonian economy needs EUR 9 billion to survive the corona crisis. I quote: "With public support, companies must be helped to survive. [---] Nine billion is, of course, a very large amount of money. He's this big when the crisis lasts for a year. " Among other things, he saw lending and tax incentives for companies as an opportunity. I fully agree with Mr Kallas's statement at the time. And it is possible that this amount will be even higher, because in a year we will not be able to overcome this crisis. At the same time, we have had less support for the most affected companies so far than in many other countries of the European Union, both per capita and per cent. I'm a little worried about your latest statements. Does the government understand how much damage our future will be in the form of a reduction in tax revenues if we allow important industries to die out? For example, the tourism sector has already lost over a billion. The unemployment fund measures are no longer helping. Do you not think that we will lose as a country in competitiveness if we do not find additional money for the affected sectors and only increase restrictions? It's still a long way to nine billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U85	Thank you. First of all, we have made a decision on European money, so that the tourism sector can get a greater share of these European support measures. And that is why I absolutely agree with you that the tourism sector has been hit the most in this crisis. As far as lending is concerned, I think that everyone agrees and agrees that borrowing is necessary to overcome the crisis. The previous state of the state budget has given us the opportunity to take out a loan to this extent, but it cannot be done indefinitely. The question is whether we are borrowing to make investments that will help us out of the crisis, or whether we are borrowing to cover running costs. And it has been our view that these loans should have been used to make specific investments. But I assure you that we have increased the measures in the tourism sector by using the European recovery facility, and on Thursday we will discuss all this more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U86	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I start with the fact that the previous Prime Minister Jüri Ratas found every day during the emergency situation to send all members of the Riigikogu an overview of the spread of the virus and the measures taken by the government. It is very nice that you have started doing this too, but somehow only some members of the Riigikogu can get this overview. I ask you to treat the members of the Riigikogu equally and send us all this overview. That's what I really want. But now my question. As you said, the virus is spreading to a very large extent in working collectives. And people travel to work and back home mostly in public transportation. It is clearly necessary to reimburse sick days as early as possible. We know that the previous government finally made this decision, but this procedure only came into force from the new year and ends at the end of April. The Social Democrats have submitted a draft extending the reimbursement of sick days from day one, until the end of the virus crisis. Are you prepared to support this proposal by the Socialists and the draft in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U88	First of all, these reviews. Indeed, I asked for these reviews to be sent to the members of the Riigikogu and, as far as I know tomorrow, all members of the Riigikogu will receive them. So far, only the chairmen of the committees and political groups got it, but from tomorrow it should have been done. As regards sickness benefit, the first day cannot be reimbursed. We just don't have that many financial opportunities, but it doesn't seem right in the big picture either. So that's not what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U89	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In addition to the concern that some of my colleagues are not wearing a mask in this hall, I have taken off for a moment, for the time being, I also have concerns about Ida-Virumaa, which a fellow Member has asked about a moment ago. The rate of infection is above 900.950. In addition to the pattern of behaviour in public space, a lack of wearing masks and keeping distance, which is certainly a concern throughout Estonia, vaccination is also a concern. As an opinion leader, I am also communicating with people and trying to convince them that vaccination is crucial for the end of this entire crisis in Estonia. People are basically willing to vaccinate, but the propaganda machine in our neighbouring country works much better than Estonia's and the people are ready to wait for the Sputnik vaccine to reach us. We know from the answers of Minister Kiig that there is a need to go through a certain procedure in the European Medicines Agency. But why cannot it be brought directly to Estonia, as other Member States of the European Union have brought it? What's your point in this? We could save more lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U91	Thank you. First Ida-Viru County. This problem is not just in Ida-Virumaa, in fact it concerns the other-language population in general. If we look at the signs of infection, they are high in settlements with a large non-language community: Lasnamäe, Maardu, Ida-Virumaa. So I share your concern, and we're working on getting the campaign there. As far as Sputnik is concerned, Russia also uses it as a tool for increasing its influence. Why else wouldn't they be vaccinating their own people, but offering it like it's outside? And if we look at those countries that have wanted to get Sputnik without having proof from the European Medicines Agency, they are in trouble. They didn't get it. Actually, there's no production capacity back there, as I understand it. In this sense, our common position is that we are using all vaccines that are authorised by the European Medicines Agency. We are also considering buying this fourth vaccine, Johnson & Johnson. It goes in the same way. But Sputnik hasn't gotten that permission. And as far as this case is concerned, that the Russian consul was still allowed to be vaccinated in Estonia, I think it could be a good signal: he trusts these other vaccines.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U92	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U93	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Have you discussed in the government how to help people cope with the psychological and emotional tensions that have arisen during the crisis? Maybe you've been thinking about giving people free psychological help.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U94	Thank you. Indeed, we have discussed how to measure mental health problems in the first place, linked to this crisis. After all, we need to understand how many there are and how to deal with them. Everyone senses the crisis fatigue and the tensions that have arisen in this connection. We have not discussed the possibility of accessing a psychologist for free, but in any case we also consider the concerns of mental health when discussing different restrictions. As far as I know, there's a big problem that there's really no way to get to a psychiatrist or a shrink. We have too few of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U95	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U96	Thank you. Prime Minister! We have the level of infection at the top of Europe and, at the same time, we have a level of vaccination below the European Union average. We have the level of vaccination below the European Union average, not the speed you talked about, but when we look at the number of people who have been vaccinated and compare it with the other Member States of the European Union. Hence my question. A number of European countries have also introduced rapid tests. Rapid tests test schoolchildren, in some countries they are also used at airports They are also available in pharmacies, people can use them, they are cheap and give a quick answer. They are used as a "preventive measure', which also enables the spread of infection to be prevented and the necessary information to be obtained. Has the government discussed how to implement them in Estonia? And if it is, then what are the decisions, or if it isn't, why isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U97	Thank you. However, we have a much higher level of vaccination than the European average. The rate of such vaccination could certainly go faster if we had more vaccines. But as far as these tests are concerned, I answered that question earlier. Yeah, we know the tests are too sensitive, but we haven't discussed these rapid tests. The previous government has allocated money to carry out the tests that are now and which have become cheaper over time. But right now, we haven't discussed the introduction of rapid tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U98	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U99	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I guess we waited for you here to get information. The problem is that there is unequal treatment. Some members of the Riigikogu, Vice-Chairmen or I don't know who, received information that was indicated for official use, and others, who even have a state secret permit, didn't receive it. I assume that something evil has been done with this information. Is it known that some of the MPs or our support groups have fed the anti-vaccine conspiracy theories with this information? Or what's the difference? The people at Stenbock's house are the same ones who push the Send button. If the information went to the entire Riigikogu before, then now somebody had to make this racket so we could take these people out, they might have lost trust. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U100	Thank you. As far as I know, this information was sent to the chairmen of the committees and the chairmen of the political groups, but as I said, it should come to all members of the Riigikogu tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U101	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U102	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Mr Kaskpeit spoke about the situation on the Latvian border, and I am asking about Finland. Last week, a notice came that the Finnish Government decided to extend... [[We're breaking up for a minute.]] Both you and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Liimets, have said that solutions are being sought to reopen the border. What was your message to the Finnish Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, on Friday, and how are the search for a solution going?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U103	Thank you. The search for a solution goes on in such a way that, indeed, Finland will initially extend the procedure until 18 March, but they launched a draft law last Friday allowing people to be allowed to enter the country if the result of the negative test is negative. They were not allowed to do so before the law, and therefore they could not formally demand it. As of now, it should enter into force if everything goes according to plan, April 1st. Then you can start asking for a negative test at the border. As far as I know, the shipping companies have prepared for this. Of course, it would be good if we could get our infection rate down so that movement would no longer be a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U104	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U105	Thank you. Prime Minister! As we know, the crown virus is the most dangerous for the so-called high-risk groups. Therefore, it is also very important to keep in mind the time when the vaccination will be carried out by the risk groups. It creates a somewhat milder situation in terms of the overall health picture, in terms of people's lives. Which one do you have exactly? When do we get to the point where the risk groups get vaccinated? And what are the measures that we must keep until then at least? What signs of infection do we have to bear in mind? Perhaps you could describe this to us in detail?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U106	Thank you. If everything is going as planned, precisely in the sense that there are enough vaccines, the risk groups should be vaccinated by the end of April. How are we now distributing vaccines between high-risk groups and frontline workers? Around 72% goes to risk groups and 28% to frontline workers. If we no longer have a shortage of vaccines, we do not need to make such a distinction. However, the target is now that we will have all the risk groups vaccinated by the end of April.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U107	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for your presentation. I admit that my question may be a little too specific or technical and would be more suitable for the Minister of Social Affairs, but I will ask it anyway. The Italian Agency for Medicinal Products for Human Use recently approved a krona antiviral medicine called "antibody cocktail' or "non-medical'. It has been scientifically demonstrated to be effective at the early stages of the disease until the fifth to the sixth day if the virus has not yet penetrated the lungs. The problem so far has been the excessive price of this medicine, but the Italians have managed to bring its production costs down to EUR 2 000 per dose. My question is, do you have more information on this drug in the Government of the Republic? Do you have any contact with Italian colleagues and do you have any intention of using this medicine in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U109	Thank you. Yeah, it's an antibody cocktail that was given to Donald Trump. At the time, I think it cost a lot more than that. Indeed, at present, the articles say that it costs EUR 2 000 per dose. It's very expensive. Our country is currently not financially in a position to pay EUR 2 000 per dose. Even a thousand doses would be a good exit. Plus the problem of who would be the 1,000 people. What do you pick them for when we actually have 52,000 sick people? We can't buy this medicine for all of us anyway. But I'm sure these medications will get cheaper. For example, Remdesivir was similarly expensive and we have allocated EUR 621000 to buy it, because it significantly alleviates the disease and prevents the more serious cases that we want to avoid. This will also reduce the burden on the medical system. I don't rule out that if these things progress, we're ready to discuss it if this cocktail helps a lot of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U110	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U111	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! The Special Committee on State Budget Control, after hearing, concluded that the strategic objective set by the government was insufficient during the explosive spread of the virus. This is not enough to make it a central objective to avoid hospital congestion alone. The target should be to reduce the rate of infection to less than 1 as this will stop the virus from spreading further. And so has the scientific council. The Special Committee on State Budget Control received this information. Unfortunately, last week, the government did not identify their impact on the coefficient of infection by lowering its selective restrictive decisions compared to the proposals made by the Scientific Advisory Board. Is the Government of the Republic, in view of the call and decision of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, prepared to change its strategic objective to control the explosive spread of the virus?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U112	Thank you. As I replied to you in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the government is monitoring various indicators, including a coefficient of infection. The second is how many hospital positions are occupied. The third is how many people are in intensive care for controlled breathing. It is also important how many infections are of unknown origin. The government, of course, is making decisions, the impact of which we must assess in a forward-looking way. This was also to be taken into account by the previous government, which on 15 January took a decision to substantially alleviate all restrictions, including the opening of schools, on which the Scientific Advisory Panel said it would lead to the explosive spread of the virus. And that's what it's brought. These are the numbers we're seeing right now. But as you know, having long fought this virus in the government, these are difficult decisions. You must take into account the various indicators and, unfortunately, the outcome of your decisions we will not know until four weeks later. But we'll try our best.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U113	Riina Sikkut, please! Riina Sikkut, I'm sorry. Before that, I will give Urmas Reinsalu the floor for a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U114	Mr President, I wanted to point out that my question was specific: will the central objective of controlling the spread of the virus be the government's introduction of an indicator that is trying to get the infection coefficient down to one? Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to that question. Despite his point of view today, and also at the meeting of the Commission, the Prime Minister stressed that the central objective of the government was precisely to avoid the congestion of hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U115	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U116	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! Yes, it is the case that a person himself is responsible for his or her health, for his or her retirement income and for complying with restrictions. The person can decide for himself whether or not he or she wishes to be vaccinated. But the resolution of the crisis will be managed by a government that has set targets, then it will be to bring the infection coefficient down to one, or to avoid hospital overload. And if the government wants all people to actually work towards achieving the goals needed to resolve the crisis, then it must be taken into account that people have different channels of information. They have different confidence in the government, different fears of the disease, and equally different opportunities to reduce their contacts depending on what work they do. In this situation, looking to the future and bearing in mind vaccination, I ask how the government has planned to supplement, modify or implement the communication plan. In fact, a high level of vaccination coverage must be achieved, which will significantly reduce the spread of the virus and thereby reduce the burden on hospitals. Would you like to set an example? Who is still doing this work, and when will they do it to convince people that it is actually reasonable for us to be vaccinated in the interests of everyone's health?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U117	Thank you. First of all, I will try to emphasise again to Urmas Reinsalu what I have already said: the coefficient of infection is one indicator among several indicators. We look at all the indicators in the collection and that is exactly what the previous government looked at. We are indeed going to have a positive campaign on vaccination. It is targeted at different groups, and we are trying to find examples that are better for one group or another. That while he's vaccinating, I'm vaccinating too. It was my wish to bring this campaign forward, but I'll explain what the other half is. Some people say that we don't have the point of running a vaccination campaign until we have enough vaccines. Otherwise, there will be a situation where people demand this vaccine because the campaign is like it is, but the vaccine isn't enough. That as long as we don't have enough vaccine, we don't need to start this campaign. But my sense is that we should rather start this campaign earlier. By the time these vaccines arrive, there will be a desire to vaccinate. It is a good thing that, as of now, we know that the direct vaccine opponents are 3 to 4%. There aren't many. But there are many people who hesitate. And there's gotta be a way to get to them. It is important to think about how to achieve a positive effect and how to get these people to agree to vaccination. But yes, that this work should be targeted at different groups so that people understand the importance of vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U118	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U119	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! It is very good that you are discussing measures on Thursday to compensate businesses and people for what they are missing due to restrictions. If we want people to follow the rules, so that people come along and contribute, you have made a call that depends on each person how this virus spreads, then in order for people to be able to do so, the government and the state must create opportunities for them. You said here that compensation for sick days from day one is not what you support. But if a person stays isolated for ten days, he gets 70% of last year's average salary. Around EUR 100 will be lost in the EUR 600 income, which is a very large amount of money. Are you willing to change that so that people get 100% of last year's average salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U120	Thank you. We have not discussed this, but it seems to me that there is an ideological difference between your views and our views. I believe that a person must also have some responsibility and that we must avoid abuse in this regard. If such a proposal comes, we will have to discuss it, but we have not yet discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U121	Thank you, Prime Minister. No more questions for you. Thank you! Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. I would first like to ask for a speech chair by Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U122	Thank you. Prime Minister! Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that poor Estonia. The government of Kaja Kallas came, the price of fuel began to rise, and the corona numbers go through the ceiling. I must also say, as an introduction, that it is good that today we have received the Prime Minister before the Riigikogu. The content was, of course, as it was. But for a week, the Riigikogu, the political groups of the Riigikogu, the Board of the Riigikogu, waited for the Head of Government to respond in any way whether he would find the time and will to come to the Riigikogu to account for the crisis or not. I do not think it is absolutely appropriate or appropriate in a parliamentary country. I dare say that this is a very wrong way to start your appointment as Prime Minister. I hope this will never happen again. And I must also say, in the interests of the verbatim report, that it seems to me that the Prime Minister finally came before Parliament after the opposition began to make serious proposals for a motion of censure on the Prime Minister, because he has no choice of whether or not to come on this initiative. But I understand why the Prime Minister did not want to come before Parliament. This has come out very well of the content of today's debate. There's no clear plan and no clear, clear guidelines that society should go ahead with, today's government doesn't have. The central answer to all the questions is: we have to discuss, we have to look, we have to watch. Yes, of course we need to look, discuss, monitor. Of course, the numbers need to be analyzed. But most of all, the Estonian state still needs it to have leadership. In my opinion, neither the current Prime Minister nor the current government fully understands that responsibility for what is happening in the country is on them. Today is responsible for what happens tomorrow. The final tone in this whole debate, both in the original speech and in the later round of answers, was an attempt to blame the previous government. Well, excuse me! Half of the previous government is sitting in this coalition. The Minister of Social Affairs is the same. These matters should then be dealt with together if there are any reproaches. But objectively: come to build a narrative that the previous government did worse or failed to manage the korona and to keep the Estonian economy on the line, it is still, well, obamatically speaking, such a courage of hope. This is a very hard PR goal if you want to rewrite history so thoroughly. That is objectively simply not true. Estonia was one of the European countries in 2020 to cope with the corona. It is also claimed that the previous government placed a terrible mine under the current government, leaving some things undecided in the middle of January or making some wrong decisions in the middle of December. That's not true either. These decisions that were made at the time were also based on the current Prime Minister's saying that we are asking scientists for and acted on the proposals of scientists. And the prognosis we had was that our infection wouldn't increase. Mostly today, we have just heard descriptions of what has been done. Well, it makes me yawn, these descriptions don't give us anything. This is a very difficult process. We heard more of these, well, I don't know, banalities about what our problems are. But how to solve them or which way the government is going, we didn't hear that. I need a plan! The same plan that the previous opposition demanded from the previous government. That's what I'm saying today: there's no plan. Basically, each country facing a corona crisis faces more or less two simple choices. If society is to be kept as open as possible, society must be made aware and the government must say that it has a price. The cost is wider infection, more people getting hospitalised and higher mortality. Sweden chose this path last year. It seemed to be a socially accepted road in Sweden. And if the government wants to go this way, then the government should tell us that yes, the numbers are ugly, but we have these, and these and those reasons why we find that we do not want or cannot make things tighter, and there are consequences that society should accept. Another option is to go down the road of closings, restrictions, let's say, tough enforcement of restrictions. And it has a price, it has a budget price. But I understand that the current government is a total penny-cutter government. You can't even buy lifesaving drugs because they're too high a piece price. And it is not intended to compensate closed companies and sectors for any loss of income or operating support. On the Commission, we heard this morning that the reason is that we're out of money. I'm not out of money. I'm not out of money! With regard to the 2020 budget, more than a billion more loans were planned than were actually taken in the end. So the money isn't out and not even out of government reserves. It's just that the government reserves have to be raised last year's balances over this year, and you have hundreds of millions of free money. So all these are just excuses. Basically, there is the same reason for hiding behind these excuses: there is no nerve to decide, no knowing what to do and, as I understand it, no agreement has been reached with my coalition partner. And that is the criticism we have against the current government. Nobody blames the government for having a corona in the world. The Chinese Communist is responsible for this. Nobody blames the government for the lack of vaccines. We accuse the government that the vaccines that arrive in Estonia are sitting in a warehouse or that they are given to elite vaccineers outside the queue or that the vaccine is distributed outside the procurement through some suitable companies. We blame that, not that it is not possible to catch them. That's the core of all the criticism. And, of course, today's debate here or today's performance by the Prime Minister, I say once again: poor Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U123	On behalf of the Group of the Siret Eagle Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, who gave an overview of the limitations of the corona apandemia and the steps taken by the state to move forward with vaccination of the Estonian population. Combating the COVID-19 pandemic was also a major challenge for the previous head of government, Jüri Ratas, who at the time stressed that the life of every person is important and that is why we must work together to overcome this disease. On behalf of the Central Party Group, I thank Jüri for constantly knocking on the consciences of the Estonian people so that they would avoid contact and thus maintain the health of both themselves and their loved ones. The previous government took a number of steps in the fight against the pandemic, whether it was the provision of additional personal protective equipment to medical workers, vulnerable people and entrepreneurs, or the support of local authorities, in particular, in making investments. In particular, I would like to highlight the steps that helped to ensure the survival of businesses and the income of workers. In an emergency situation, the government allocated more than EUR 200 million to cover additional health care costs and benefits. Nearly 100,000 people were compensated for the loss of earnings on the sick page from the first to the third day of illness, which supported the isolation of the affected. In the spring and summer, more than 137500 employees received compensation from more than 17000 companies. It took over EUR 250 million, but it prevented a large number of redundancies and business closures. The country's aid package was broad-based and the list could be continued. The current government must also not leave businesses on their own. The situation is serious and a reasonable agreement must be reached on this matter. The restrictions have seriously disrupted the lives of thousands of people, and the country has to compensate for the loss of income. This was done earlier and must be continued. Vaccination has begun and medical staff, nursing staff and their wards have already been vaccinated if they wish. Currently, the country vaccinates both teachers and people at risk. According to the plan, all Estonians should have the opportunity to vaccinate from May onwards. I consider it important that, before making a decision, a person investigates vaccines from doctors and other knowledgeable people, rather than making a decision according to what the so-called yellow media or a familiar person says. The first case of corona in Estonia and then the first restrictions of the year will soon be completed. I feel that people are very tired of all this, and many are emotionally willing to give up. In reality, this is an important moment. We have to keep going and we can't give up in any way. Emotional surrender is expressed in the economy, both in jobs and in the functioning of services. We have reached the beginning of the final line. If we work together now, the infection rates will fall again. Hopefully it'll get easier in the spring. In the meantime, we must endure together. Good luck holding the spirit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U125	Thank you. Next, as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland of Helir-Valdor Seeder, I would like to ask for a speech chair. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U126	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! The arrival of the Prime Minister before the Riigikogu has been very difficult. Took a week in this situation of the corona crisis before he got to the Riigikogu, but I'm glad he finally made it. And I encourage the Prime Minister not to be afraid of Parliament, to cooperate with Parliament, so the results will certainly be better. There is no reason to fear Parliament. But this review today and these answers to the members of the Riigikogu were more of a historical review and related to the previous government. I would like to hear more about what the current government is planning to do, what the restrictions, vaccination plans and other very important steps are going to be taken by the government that took office. The initial messages are unfortunately extremely confusing, the restrictions are relaxed, they are tightened. In my opinion, the decisions of 28 January, which were taken by the government that took office and which relaxed the restrictions in Estonia, were not correct. They were neither right from a practical point of view nor right as a message to society, as if things were starting to improve and the corona crisis would come to an end. This was a mistake, and this was followed by the expected setback. Messages about restrictions have been extremely confusing, with the exception of sports activities, restrictions on spas, swimming pools and saunas. A lot of people have asked me what sport we have in our saunas. Yes, we know that there are sauna-MM and other competitions, but there is no sporty activity in Estonian spas saunas. What are the compensatory mechanisms if the government intends to implement them, and does it even intend to implement them? The Prime Minister was very fond of talking about the previous government. The previous government was in the habit of having a very good one, and in my opinion it was a very good one, that, when restrictions were applied, it was also said on what principles the restrictions are intended to be compensated for and who is to be reimbursed, and a mechanism was developed behind them. It is essential for businesses, workers and ordinary people alike to know on what basis the government will compensate for possible restrictions. When he took office, Prime candidate Kaja Kallas said here that the first priorities of this government are the fight against coronavir. Yet the first drafts that have come from this government are of a completely different nature. The intention is to re-manufacturing the parliamentary committees responsible for monitoring in such a way that they are firmly controlled by the coalition. It is the initiative of the Minister of Justice to oppose freedom of expression in the Republic of Estonia and so on with the draft hate speech. Are these urgent drafts that must now be dealt with in Parliament? In my opinion, this is not right and these actions could be left in the distant future. In fact, one of these drafts could be withdrawn at all and left out. These are not drafts that it would be wise to discuss in this Chamber right now. Next: vaccination, vaccination plan, delivery of vaccines, listing, pace of vaccination. We can see how fickle the rate of vaccination is. On the weekends, it fades, it activates again in the week, then it fades again. In a situation where vaccines are waiting in warehouses, such long sluggish weekends should not be allowed for vaccination. It is also unclear whether vaccination lists should be drawn up. We did not get answers to many questions here today, and that is why in my speech I also focus very much on the questions of what the logic of listing is. This is also what very many people and businesses have asked whether people who have suffered from the disease and have received immunity for a certain time should be on the vaccination list as a matter of priority now, or whether we should have so much flexibility and capacity that we, when they have received immunity, do not currently vaccinate and vaccinate those who have not had the disease and are infectious. Those who have had a history could be vaccinated a little later. Do we have that kind of flexibility? Based on which principles are the vaccination lists drawn up, there is no clarity here, there is no response from the government. The same is true of rapid tests. We have received a reply today that the government has not discussed at all the possibility of implementing rapid tests. Several countries use them: in Austria they are used to test schoolchildren, in France they are used for arrivals at airports, in several other countries they are used. They can also be used in pharmacies. They are cheap for people and the answer is quickly available, they allow preventive monitoring and provide governments with a tool for implementing restrictions and measures. It seems that there is every reason for the government to discuss this, form a position and make it known to the public. And finally. We have a Minister for Social Affairs who has been able to operate consistently and who has a huge burden and a huge responsibility and who has a very big talk in all television programmes. However, it seems to me that in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is precisely those issues that I have put the emphasis on today that have not been sufficiently dealt with. I'm not talking about the inherent spread of corona disease here. There is no one minister or government to blame for having this corona virus, but they can be blamed for unclear plans and measures and for the implementation of these measures. That is something that falls largely under the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs, on his shoulders. The Minister of Social Affairs has acted both in the previous government and in the current government, and it was a little strange to hear the Prime Minister's accusations of failure and delay to the previous government. And that is why I really want to know whether this is also a message to the Minister of Social Affairs of the current government, who was the Minister of Social Affairs of the previous government. Thank you and the strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U127	Now, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U128	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! Colleagues! We've been living in the corona age for a year, I'm afraid. And logically, all people are tired of restrictions, fear of their own health and the health of their loved ones, their incomes, as well as their spiritual success. The future is uncertain. Even more uncertain, however, seems to be the present. Each day, however, news of new infections and disease, often death, is an integral part of it. We have pushed our disease figures to the top of Europe. The ultimate certainty of the future, of course, is difficult to create. But the rational and science-based steps of decision-makers, the explanations of this situation, as well as understandable targets and future scenarios, will certainly help to reduce uncertainty. I am convinced that the crisis can be managed more decisively and rationally. It can be managed in such a way that society comes along better and does not put its hands on the coronal rules and government's instructions. One must not forget for a moment that the struggle is for public health, for every life. The aim must not be merely the ability of hospitals to provide beds for the infected. The aim must be to save the lives of the people of Estonia to the maximum. Vaccination plans should be able to be kept once a promise has been made. And the pace must definitely rise. Of course, vaccination of high-risk groups is particularly urgent. We need to get the infection coefficient down before it's too late for a lot of people. I agree with the Prime Minister here that seeing how many people continue to have questions about the safety and meaning of vaccination certainly does not have time to wait until May for an explanation campaign, as the government has said so far. Over the last year, it has been repeatedly stressed that good communication is key in the current severe crisis, and above all clear messages. There was good reason to hope that the concern for raping communication would disappear from the government along with the Helms, along with the extreme populists. But take your finger! It seems that the government that took office in January is tripping on the same rake, and the overdoing of each other on the government level continues. In a troubled situation, people are hoping for the word of each member of the government. It is in the crisis situation that it is particularly important that the members of the government can agree among themselves and do not allow themselves to make assumptions and opinions until there is no certainty, which is actually being done. If there are different speculations before decisions and false expectations, then the rest of us will find it difficult or impossible to understand how to act. Against the background of mixed and controversial messages, there is no point in blaming people if they are no longer able to keep track of what restrictions are in place this week and fail to see how serious the overall health picture has actually changed. Public speculations and reflections by government-level politicalvirologists on various possible restrictions should be put to an end. Or if you can't, at least pause for a while. This, unfortunately, applies especially to the former Prime Minister. The two Prime Ministers are not effectively managing the crisis. The practice of life and the rest of the world has shown that it is useful for effective crisis management to expand the circle of responsibility and also to involve the opposition in substantive discussions. The Nordic countries, which are very successful in controlling the second wave, have achieved a much greater commonality and clearer communication by broadening the circle of decision-makers. Those in power can still take the lead here. And it is good that today we have also reached the discussion of the large hall in the Riigikogu, because in a crisis situation, the debate in the Riigikogu is an elementary part of the governance and communication of the parliamentary state. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U129	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U130	But, of course, it's a real shame it took a week to get to that. Hopefully, the first clumsy steps taken by the Prime Minister in the direction of the Riigikogu and the opposition were due to the insecurity that resulted from the fact that he is still getting used to the responsibility of the Head of Government rather than his attitude towards the elected parliament of the people. Of course, all decisions made on the Coronary should be based on the best available expertise, in particular on the recommendations of the Scientific Advisory Board. We have requested this from the government so many times in our joint opposition with the Reform Party. Here too, we see, however, that a number of government decisions do not take into account the proposals made by the Scientific Advisory Board. And the Prime Minister's comments today on the justification for their non-compliance do not provide any assurance that this will not lead to a significant deterioration in the health situation. Once again, in the hope of the best, one must rely on the best knowledge and expertise. In order to control the disease, political virology and political rivalry must be reduced in response to the health crisis. Please, let us try to find the greatest possible common ground here and achieve the unity of the government's messages. When there is order at political level, society as a whole can also work harder, and people are able to follow the necessary discipline of reducing contacts, wearing masks and keeping distance. We have wise and responsible people We very much hope that the government can be worthy of them. But you gotta pull yourself together for that. Now! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U131	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The Prime Minister has asked for another word. Please, Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U132	Thank you. Thank you very much for this debate. A lot of ideas were taken from here. But I would like to make a few more comments. For some of the speeches, I have to say, it sounded a little bit like following my words, not my actions. When, on the one hand, you hear an evil speech from the speaker and, as if, a huge concern about the spread of the virus, but on the other hand, people are called upon to gather in large numbers for demonstrations, there is a slight contradiction between words and actions. Seems exactly like actually let somebody else do it. I don't think that's a good example. In any case, I acknowledge the Fatherland, which canceled its gatherings, and they are not planned to be done on 24 February. This is a common concern for all of us. Now, two: we have a plan, and we're working on it all the time. I have emphasised here the various elements of this plan that we take into account, how we move. But this plan has different scenarios, because there are a lot of variables in the course of the pandemic and people's behaviour, and in the process our plan will change. Now, this plan to deal with this disease, and on the other hand, how to vaccinate people quickly and at the same time keep society as open as possible. As far as compensation mechanisms are concerned, one thing we know now is that the previous government did not really count the money at all. And that's what it feels like. If it doesn't count at all, sooner or later, there'll be bankruptcy. And the decisions concerning the compensation mechanisms were actually taken with a delay of several weeks. It was not the case that a compensatory mechanism was agreed immediately with the imposition of restrictions. There was a time difference. We will try to do better and faster in any case. The Chairman of the Fatherland pointed out here that on 29 January we sort of relaxed the restrictions. No, the restrictions were relaxed everywhere on 15 January, all over the world, and this was done by the previous government. The current government took office on 26 January. Also, those suffering from the disease are not on the vaccination list. You can't get a vaccine and they shouldn't be on that list. On this point, I absolutely agree with you. And if there's someone on that list who's broken out, we need to get him out of there. The point is that people who don't have antibodies get the vaccine, while others are protected by antibodies. After all, research shows that these antibodies actually last longer. But for how long, there hasn't been enough research. One major complaint related to the coming before the Riigikogu, about how it took a week to do so. I was approached at a time when the current opposition parties, the former government departments, knew very well that there were government meetings on the COVID issue that would last for hours. We are discussing these matters thoroughly. And it was also known that certain restrictions would pass that we had to make new decisions. It was just these discussions that were very thorough. I answered the invitation to appear before the Riigikogu. I am in no way afraid of the Riigikogu and intend to cooperate well with the Riigikogu, as I said. Information relating to COVID will be shared with all members of the Riigikogu from tomorrow, so far it was sent only to the leaders of political groups and committees. But the Riigikogu must come when it is possible to discuss the things that we have decided, which we have considered and on which we also collect the Riigikogu's thoughts. So I'm counting on good cooperation. Let us see how we can also involve the opposition more in these discussions, so that everyone is in one position to know what we are in and what better to do. But thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U133	Thank you, Prime Minister. With this, we have exhausted the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U134	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (complying with the recommendations of GRECO and limiting the public access to declarations of interests of the heads of security authorities). The government report is made by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U135	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This bill is actually very simple and short. There are two issues. Firstly, that the political councillors of ministers will be obliged to submit their declarations of interest in the future. And secondly, the declarations of the heads of the security authorities are not made public. I'm talking a little bit about the back. Why should ministers' political advisers make declarations of interest? This is due to the fact that political advisors have a pretty important role to play in how the Minister's actions are formed, what are the topics, what are the positions. It certainly depends very much on what a particular minister does and on the tasks he gives his advisors. But in order for attitudes, conditions and requirements to be the same, it is important that all political advisers make declarations of interest. It is also a step in the direction of enabling the Minister, as well as the advisors, to consider whether they are actually suitable for this office, so that no conflicts of interest arise when they take office. This is one of the recommendations that GRECO has given to Estonia. I can be urged to say that two more recommendations, one on guidelines for preventing conflicts of interest, and the other on guidelines and recommendations for communicating with lobbyists, will come on the agenda in the near future in the government, and hopefully they will be adopted very soon. Now, as regards the failure to submit the declaration of the Head of the Security Authority, this is due to the desire to avoid external, "unwelcome" pressure on the Head of the Security Authority. Right now, we have two heads of security. In addition, we have officials from security authorities who all submit their declarations of interest, but their declarations are not public. The leaders of these institutions would go the same way. However, the declarations of common officials are checked as an internal control measure, whereas there is the Riigikogu Anti-Corruption Commission to verify the declarations of the heads of these two institutions. These declarations are not public either, for example, in Finland, Poland, Latvia or Germany. The aim is, as I said, that data that do not need to be public would not be known to non-friendly countries. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U136	Good Minister, there is at least one question for you. Initiating Eduard Odines. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! This is certainly a necessary step towards meeting GRECO's recommendations and declaring the interests of political advisors, but at least outwards, to the public it seems to be such a cosmetic step in the face of all these corruption cases and of the scandals of power and political power trading. Have you thought already, having taken office and declared that fighting corruption is one of the most important activities of the current government, what are the following and perhaps the most powerful steps that the legislator should take to prevent political parties from trading power, political advisors from doing the same thing, political party funding scandals? What other important steps are needed so that it does not look like a cosmetic step that is once again just like giving up on some European demands? What more concrete and powerful steps could you offer?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U138	Thank you for your question. I forgot to mention that the government has already approved an action plan to combat corruption for the next five years. And indeed, [there will be] these two guidelines, which will also hopefully be confirmed in the coming weeks. What is foreseen in the Action Plan? There are a great many areas of activity, as problems of corruption have been observed in a wide range of areas. What are more specific plans? It is certainly planned to look at the activities of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, but not just to see what happens to them, but to look at their role, whether this circle of tasks could be extended, how the Commission could be strengthened, whether there would be more people and additional money there. In short, it's a very wide circle. There is certainly also a plan to discuss whether any changes to the funding of political parties are necessary. All these issues are planned for the next half-year and on the grounds that I really want this action to take place with the involvement of as many parties as possible. I know that ideas are very different, they are often contradictory, and it is probably difficult to find such a common part. However, I believe that, above all, the steps concerning political corruption must be negotiated at least with all parliamentary parties. And actually, it would be nice if other institutions, organisations, definitely Corruption-free Estonia, and other important groups were involved in the discussion, so that we can get a consensual understanding, so that no one would feel that this thing is rolled over, and that everyone would understand that yes, this is the best solution. It'll take a while. However, there are certainly many cases of corruption in other areas, for example at local government level. How do you do that in there? This is certainly one of the issues that needs to be addressed and discussed with the heads of government and to think about how this matter would be public, understandable. For example, there could be nomination boards or something similar at local government level, in companies. There are certainly many of these ideas, they should be discussed. I always think that not all things have to be put into law. It would be very nice if people and institutions were to fulfil their obligations voluntarily. Unfortunately, many council members of local governments have not submitted declarations of interest, although this obligation does exist. At the same time, there are institutions which, by virtue of their internal rules, have imposed a requirement which is not in the law. This is also an opportunity to show your open attitude and try to avoid corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U139	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U140	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, For me, the question has been that there has been a lot of accusations against the EKRE, as if the EKRE were against this legislative amendment. I want to stress right now that the EKRE has never opposed it. EKRE has always been opposed to inequality. In this case, I see unequal treatment in very different ways here, and I am opposed to this inequality. Here's my question. According to ATS (Public Service Act), those who advise the Minister can be both in an advisory position and in an assistive position; they are different. Now, in the case of persons in a consultative position, this declaration is required, but not in the case of assisting persons. It's just a "finger pinch." Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U141	Thank you for your question. In fact, there was an answer to your question at the end of my previous answer. It is always possible to submit declarations also for people who are not on the list by law. There's a chance. The border is likely drawn from the fact that ministers have advisers and help. Assistants are basically secretaries. If, for example, the Minister considers that the secretary should also declare his interests, this possibility exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U142	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U143	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You introduced the topic of monitoring the funding of political parties. Should not the members of the committee on the supervision of political parties' funding also have their own interests [to be declared]? After all, some cases are burned with great passion, and some find that this is not such an acute issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U144	Thank you for your question. Certainly, in many different cases, it can be discussed that interests are represented. In principle, such an approach cannot be ruled out. But, as I said, it is always possible to declare your interests voluntarily. And, of course, the Riigikogu always has the opportunity to make changes to this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U145	Now via the web Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U146	Thank you, good Hanno! Dear Minister, In this Chamber, there has been an age-old question about many of the drafts, the fact that it is the controller and it is verifiable who controls the controller. In anticipation of the usual accusations that come from the other side of the hall and that there is a deep state that no one controls, why should the same heads of security authorities you mentioned not declare their interests, for example, to the Kapo Commission, which holds their declarations. What's stopping it? Then they wouldn't go into this single public database, and their understandablely necessary personal protection would be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U147	Thank you for your question. Yes, it is also perfectly possible and logical.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U148	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U149	Thank you. Dear Minister, I was somewhat disappointed by your response to Mr Odines' question, who asked what your stronger steps would be in controlling political corruption. You told me to have a round table and discuss it. While you are doing the round table, there are parties and politicians who are conducting political corruption while you are discussing what could be done. I would therefore encourage you to be a little more ambitious in what is allowed to be done. I'm asking specifically. On the basis of the proposals made by the ICTY, the Social Democrats have issued a draft conferring additional rights on the ICTY in order to really increase transparency and manage corruption. Will you support this package of proposals to adopt it quickly and reduce the risk of corruption, or will you not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U150	Thank you for your question. It is not my custom to do things rashly, but to get involved and listen to the views of the various parties, even if the idea proposed seems very good with the first kick. I always want to look a little further. And like I said, there's an action plan, I even have it with me. There. I've been doing this a lot. But what exactly comes and when they happen will now be set in time. As far as your draft is concerned, this is the subject of a position being drawn up at the moment. I'm sure there's a lot of good ideas. But we'll see. As I said, I believe that any such decision or proposal could be coordinated with a wider circle, not just the idea of a 'one party', and perhaps we could look at things a little more broadly. Although your draft is quite broad and quite comprehensive, there are some issues on which I certainly know there are reservations, objections to other parties, parties. Perhaps it would be a good idea to draw on a number of other ideas. But what's the opinion? We'll find out when it comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U151	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U152	Thank you very much. We have discussed this draft law repeatedly in the group, and we cannot understand the difference in treatment resulting from it. I would like to highlight the fact that Article 12 of the Constitution provides that no one must be treated unequally on the basis of his or her property, social or other circumstances. However, in this case, the heads of some agencies are hiding the declaration, but other high officials have a public declaration. What is the basis for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U153	Thank you for your question. I'll explain it again. You probably know that people working in security institutions are largely unknown to us, and also unknown to our opponents. The leaders of these institutions are known and well known, but this does not mean that the different aspects of their lives should also be publicly known to our counterparts. And I would remind you that equality is not absolute. Our constitution also says that there are certain aspects and certain situations where unequal treatment is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U154	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The declarations of economic interests have been presented by a large circle of people for very long years, and we can say with conviction that I will not read the individual cases out loud that this has not prevented people from entering into corrupt transactions, corrupt ties, etc. I do not believe that extending the circle of reporters will have the effect that we will certainly reduce the risk of corruption in society. It is particularly incomprehensible that it is not intended to include the leaders of the security authorities in this circle. The argument that the declaration of these interests should not be public is understandable. But the Security Commission should be able to access it. And little of the fact that the security of the state depends on these people and the security of many individuals also depends on them, it should also be possible to discuss their declarations of interest, to ask further questions about them. Do you consider this necessary and possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U156	Thank you for your question. As I said in reply to one of the previous questions, I do not mind if the declarations of the heads of the security authorities are also assessed by the Security Committee of the Riigikogu. So if you think it's necessary, please. But this must definitely be done in accordance with the requirements and conditions. As regards whether or not the advisers should make a declaration, I am deeply convinced that the advisers should submit a declaration. I think the experience of the last few years shows that it is a scream. The fact is, as I said before, that very many members of local councils do not do this and there are still some people who have not fulfilled their obligations and requirements. The best way to combat this is to disclose the names of those who do not declare their interests but hide them. I'm sure there are situations when people may be lying or something. But I basically think there's no reason for an honest person to be afraid. Making a declaration also gives the declarant the opportunity to reflect on his role, on his potential conflicts. And if he doesn't, I'm sorry, but that person won't be able to do it. However, it seems to me that people who perceive their conflict situations very clearly avoid making a declaration, because declarations are generally checked. Not all of them, but random.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U157	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As a result of your responses here, I have reviewed this action plan or strategy to prevent corruption. It is, in this sense, a very good document that health and all the different areas have been highlighted very well there. But what I can't find there is everything that concerns parties. I have a question for you. There could easily be plans to eradicate political corruption with exactly the same degree of precision, such as elections, hidden donations, ordering these things up. Tell me why I can't find a word in there about eradicating the corruption of political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U159	Thank you for your question. The reason is that this action plan was drawn up before the government took office. It was prepared in negotiations with Corruption-free Estonia and other organisations. This is the context in which he developed. This agenda existed before the current government took office. Now, as far as the issue of political corruption is concerned, yes, this is not in this agenda. You must ask [those] who participated in the negotiations] about this. I know that this was also discussed in the Committee on Corruption, which I have never been a member of. So [I don't know] what these reasons are, why he's like that, and why there's no political corruption in it. But political corruption is planned to be dealt with outside the so-called programme. As I explained earlier, the aim is to collect by autumn both those ideas that would help strengthen the committee's work on the supervision of political parties' funding, as well as to look at the wider funding of political parties and other problems of taking on all these issues in a complex way. I'm inviting you to take part in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U160	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U161	Thank you. As the specialists say, big corruption and small corruption. This corruption agenda is mainly concerned with the small size of how health care is and whether or not a bottle of cognac can be delivered to a doctor. There is no doubt that this is also an important issue, but in a situation where, at national level, a million euros of political decisions are being sold, you know, there should actually be a spike in the Minister of Justice. That's the question. We do not need roundtables on this subject, these proposals have been made over several years, they have been filtered, some of which have also been analysed. In fact, it would be necessary to discuss quickly, bring the stakeholders together, reach decisions and take these decisions. You say there will be a long and thorough process, it will be discussed sometime in the autumn. It seems like the Centre Party has told you that there will be no real change, let's not make a big deal of it. Small cosmetic changes, a small declaration of interests and code of ethics for advisors, and enough. Can you confirm that you are actually presenting to Parliament a very ambitious plan on how to manage political corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U162	Thank you for your question. You just advised me to call a round table. Exactly the same thing I said: invite the participants to show up and talk, collect all these ideas. During the time I've been in office, I've been picking up as many ideas as I've come. But when you enter the Minister's office, you also need to collect information on a whole range of other things and topics, and there have been quite a lot of them. I assure you that the corruption material is one of the things I have read most thoroughly. And I have come to realize that the positions are contradictory. They're contradictory in some places, not everywhere, but there are contradictions here and there. There's a difference of opinion. As I said before, I wish we wouldn't go this way, there's an idea, no matter who it is, and with it we just roll over the rest. I'm sure no one will tell me what I can't do or do. Since I have been given the task of fighting corruption, I will. You can give me a grade someday, but I assure you, I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U163	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You answered the question of a good colleague, Paul Puustusmaa, that the declarations of the heads of the security authorities cannot be made public, because then the bad guys across the border will know everything exactly. I can assure you that your explanation for this question is absolutely irrelevant, because foreign scouts who want to know something from us have known these things a long time ago. Their capacity is extremely high. Therefore, the question at the moment is that I believe that this recital will fall away, which is why we cannot make these [declarations] public. It's a whole other question. I mean, we cannot allow a situation in our country where some high officials are sacred cows that cannot be stabbed at all. Why, then, do we members of the Riigikogu have to make some kind of declaration? It is also perhaps a threat to security.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U165	Thank you for your question. First of all, I am sad to hear that a member of the Riigikogu is convinced that Estonian intelligence and counter-intelligence have no capacity whatsoever. I'm sorry, that's the impression I had. As far as the declarations of the heads of security authorities are concerned, it is true that they are currently public. The declarations of existing managers are indeed known. When they become secret, in a sense, possible changes will become secret, but so will the declarations of the new leaders. So, at least after a while, it will be a little more difficult for the authorities that are hostile to our country to obtain the information they are likely to be interested in, and I really hope they do not find everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U166	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your draft presentation, you spoke of political advisors, and the explanatory memorandum also focuses on them. But when you read the text of the bill, it says a little different. There is talk of a person who is in charge of advising a member of the Government of the Republic. Hence the question: in the context of this law, how will a distinction be made between political and a political advisors? Will this obligation [to submit a declaration] extend in the future to, for example, members of the Scientific Advisory Board, who advise the members of the Government of the Republic on the corona issue or on any other matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U168	Thank you. If you read this paragraph accurately, it refers to a member of the Government of the Republic, or [talk] singular, a specific member, not a government: [complys] advisory tasks until the end of the term of office of a member of the Government of the Republic. According to the current law, political advisers, or ministerial advisers, are those whose contract of employment ends at the moment the minister resigns. Perhaps that is how these councillors are defined: they are in office with the Minister and will leave when the Minister leaves his position. These are 'political advisers' and are subject to the obligation to make a declaration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U169	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U170	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have repeatedly mentioned here the need for local governments, the leaders of local governments and, in their case, for their wealth to penetrate more deeply. However, I would say that, first of all, the possibilities and capabilities of harming the head of local government and the head of the special service are absolutely not comparable. I would therefore like to point out in this draft that, in my opinion, it is basically substitution activities, because expanding the circle of declarants does not really make any better the fight against corruption. It's just a substitute. Let's write down some other people who have to make declarations, and that's all there is to it. In the case of managers of special services, the illumination should be absolute! [This should include] their foreign assets, etc., as some other countries have. That's what I wanted to draw attention to, it's not a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U171	Thank you. The Declaration of Interests I believe that you have also fulfilled it yourself, including all interests, including those that are in foreign countries, economic interests. No doubt you have the right to believe that declarations of interest should not be submitted, and you may also think that expanding this circle is useless and that everything is useless at all. This is your freedom. But I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U172	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm having a little bit of a mess here. I understand that during the previous government, this action plan to combat corruption was prepared in principle. But in the meantime, the government has changed. You are a member of this government, a minister who has put this agenda into government. The government exchange took place because a very large number of cases of political corruption emerged. [Fighting against it] was one of the important promises you made when you signed the coalition agreement. But you didn't put political corruption points in there, how to fight it. Basically, the most important thing at this point in time and in this context has not been incorporated. I simply cannot understand where I as a member of the Riigikogu and other people can read the thoughts and plans that the government intends to do. Tell me, because the coalition agreement is very general about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U174	Thank you for your question. Once again, when this action plan came to me, it reached me on the first day, one of the first meetings I had with Corruption-free Estonia. We talked about it, and they found it appropriate. They didn't have any complaints. And since it has been drawn up during discussions, I found that I would add something to it without making a round of negotiations, this is a very large [action that should be included] also in the Riigikogu Corruption Committee, and all these organisations would perhaps not be adequate and would at least partially delay the fight against corruption. And I do not agree with the argument that these are minor problems. As far as political corruption is concerned, concrete actions will become public as soon as the government's agenda is confirmed. Hopefully this will happen this week, maybe tomorrow, maybe Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U175	Does Helle-Moonika Helme have a procedural question or a common question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U176	I have a procedural question, or rather, I have a procedural remark. I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention now, as well as everyone else's, to the fact that the rapporteur's interpretation of Mart Helme's words was probably deliberately misinterpreted. I listened, and I realized that Mart Helme said that substitution activities were an extension of the performers' circle. He never argued that he was not at all in favour of submitting these declarations. That's my procedural remark. I ask the speaker to remain correct in the interpretation!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U177	Thank you. As has been through this hall before, the questioner asks and the respondent answers as he feels right at the time. Kalle Grünthal, let's get on with the questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When you answered the questions here today, you said that your first fight is the fight against corruption, and you will be awarded a grade at the end of your term of office. I'm telling you, I'm giving you a chance to get your grade today if you answer my question. As we know, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has submitted a draft whereby some of the types of crime, including corruption and power trading, are classified as crimes which are subject to a judicial winding-up order by a legal person in the event of repeated behaviour. My question is to give you a grade: will you support this bill, according to which the legal person who has repeatedly committed crimes will be enforced?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U179	Thank you for your question. I have already pointed out, in reply to another question, that I am not shaping my views in such a way as to come up with an unexpected proposal. I want to consider things. The content of the draft that you have tabled has not yet reached my table, and therefore I cannot answer that question at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U180	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U181	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have this question that maybe you can explain this conflict of interest versus the protection of interests. Where does that border run from? But the other part of the question is interesting. You're saying you could voluntarily declare it all the time. I understand that this is voluntary activity, and we here may not know that it is quite widespread, massive. How many people who have worked as ministerial aid have wished to comply with the [declaration] and have already voluntarily completed it? Are there hundreds or thousands of people who have said in Estonia that I would also like to fill out a declaration of economic interests? We should know whether this is the wish of a large, large majority of the people. And what's stopping them today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U182	Thank you. In other words, the story is that some persons are required by law to submit a declaration of interest. The law states what [must be provided] and who must submit. In addition, it is also possible for the heads of public authorities, executive directors, to lay down rules so that persons working in certain key positions in these institutions should also submit a declaration. It is no longer compulsory, in the sense that it is not a statutory obligation, but is 'voluntary'. The organisation or body shall decide that it would be good to present it in these positions. The declaration of interest is intended, in particular, to show the economic interests and possible conflicts arising from it in making any decisions. For example, if someone owns an establishment or owns an enterprise in some area, he should not make decisions in this area. These are actually kind of elementary things. I think most people understand that a person should not participate in the decision-making process about himself and that he should step aside. This does not necessarily mean resigning, but at least giving up your decision and refraining from affecting those who make decisions in areas where you have a personal interest. For example, you have a company, your wife, children, or very close people who have a participation. It is certainly also a question of the fact that people with very high debts and difficulties in repaying debts may be tempted to ask for bribery or make decisions that are economically beneficial to them. In this sense, it is good to review this survey so that what should be monitored and what possible danger points are, and [it is important that] it is the person himself who can first look at it. But I think that when these declarations are made, those people who have hired someone should also perceive the potential risks, and if the employee does not know how to step aside at the right time, maybe remind him of that. Some declarations, as you know and have noticed, are extremely interested in the press and are summarised in various ways. A public person who makes important decisions for the state should not be ashamed of having personal, economic, financial interests and should not be ashamed of what they are. But at the moment he has to decide, he must, of course, be able to step aside from this decision-making process. I hope I answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U183	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Minister for Justice! Non-publication of the declaration by the Head of Security Authorities would not be the solution. The solution would be that we do not appoint as heads of security authorities persons whose economic activity may be so problematic that it could create an interest in hostile special services or simply propaganda, or just a general negative public response. That would be the solution. There's no question, it was a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U185	Thank you. I believe that when considering who will be the head of one security authority or another, his interests will also be considered and it is good to see them in the declaration in order to assess his interests. The question of why they should be hidden is, say, that opponents may occasionally be quite resourceful, and in such a situation, it would perhaps be good if opponents could not easily retrieve this data. These interests may be very innocent, but we know that you may be used to have family members, etc. Very innocent things can lead to difficult situations. So I guess we shouldn't make things very easy for the opponents.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U186	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I certainly do not consider this draft to be unnecessary or a substitute. However, I repeat what I said on the first question, it seems that this is too small a step to solve the major problems that we have on the agenda. You mentioned that you have already gone through quite a lot of proposals and ideas in the fight against corruption and that you have found contradictions or different understandings between the various parties involved. Can you give us a few examples of what are the things that, in our common fight for fair play, may give rise to conflicting views among the various parties once you have found them [and find] that we still have to hold consultations, discussions and round tables?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U188	Thank you. This bill is the draft of the previous government and this is the first draft that the current government sent to the Riigikogu. The reason was simple: this bill seemed ready, but somehow stopped. I guess the reason is that the members of the previous government are better able to comment, but it seems that in this Chamber the audience has already had the impression of why. With regard to where these contradictions can be seen, for example, the question of how parties should be financed. Some think that money should only come from the state budget, some think that the state budget should be increased, others say that public funding should be banned, some say that private donations must be turned away, others say that donations from companies could be allowed, and others, of course, are denied. This is one example of a wide spectrum. It is certainly also a question of how to strengthen the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. There are also many different ideas about this, to which some people object. For example, should he be granted the rights of the investigating authority or not, and what would this entail? If you give me that right, it has consequences. If, for example, increased funding, how much? Will the basic principles of funding be changed? This is also a discussion place: some find that they do not have to [change], some find that they have to. There are. I don't think I have them systematized and I haven't read all of them, so I don't dare say whether one or the other is good or bad. But the picture's come up, it's really written, let's say so. I would certainly like to find time to review all of these myself, to think a little bit, and also to talk to the proposers to argue about their weaknesses and strengths. Perhaps some ideas are excellent, but I want to be sure that objections have also been considered and that this excellent idea would also seem to others, if not excellent, at least good or acceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U189	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U190	Thank you for the floor. I hope there's an answer. Interestingly, although I am in the Riigikogu building, the teleworking system of the Riigikogu seems to be somewhat reluctant and hacking, for some reason, as if there were problems with mobile transmission. But I do hope the minister hears my question. And here's my question. You have now looked at this area, which is at this moment, and which, of course, must be one of the priorities for today's government, if the government wants to restore confidence in the functioning of the political system, it is political corruption and its exclusion. As a minister, what do you consider the most important thing that should certainly be done during your term of ministering in order to significantly reduce the risk of political corruption and political corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U191	Thank you for your question. It's kind of a complicated question. It is hard to tell what this one and the most appropriate step could be. It's because if I say one thing, I'm sure someone else will say that something else is very important. But I think the most important thing is to ensure that political parties are delivered on equal terms and on the same principles, so that there are no false players. We should stop playing fake games.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U192	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. As feedback to Indrek Island, both the sound signal and the video signal arrived very nicely from her room to the big room. Now we go to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and this is done by the chairman of the committee, Toomas Kivimägi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U193	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, both in the hall and online! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 16 February. In addition to the members of the Constitutional Committee, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri, Head of the Analysis Department of the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice Mari-Liis Sööt, Head of the Human Resources Policy Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Aiv Sirp and Communication Director of the Public Relations Department of the Riigikogu Epp-Mare Kukemelk were invited to the meeting. First, Minister of Justice Maris Lauri gave an overview of this draft, mentioning two important changes. Firstly, according to this draft, a declaration of interest must also be made by the political advisers of the ministers. Another substantive change is that the declarations of interests of the heads of security authorities are no longer made public. In the latter case, it is certainly important to refer to the practice that the declaration of interests of the heads of security authorities is not made public, for example, in Finland, Latvia, Poland and Germany. There's nothing unique about it. The speaker then asked whether the obligation to submit a declaration of interest would affect all political advisors. Indeed, it must be made clear here that when we read the text of the draft law, it does not talk about political advisors, but about those who are in charge of advising a member of the government. Indeed, not all political advisors working with the Minister or Prime Minister are obliged to submit a declaration of interest. In fact, GRECO has also said that not all ministerial advisers are subject to the obligation to make a declaration of interest, but this obligation applies first and foremost to those involved in making substantive decisions. In essence, GRECO is referring to ministerial advisers who have an official position in the sense of the Anti-Corruption Act. This means that they have the right and obligation to take decisions or acts involving rights or obligations of a third party in the performance of a public task arising out of a legal act, transaction or agency's organisation. So once again: not all advisors [will not be subject to this obligation]. Although for me, it's a little strange that the title is "advisory," but no advice is given. I assume that if I am an advisor, I will give advice, and [this obligation] should extend to [all counselors]. But still, it requires a risk assessment. By the end of the day, the Minister or Chancellor shall be the one who shall determine the political advisers to whom the obligation to submit a declaration of interest extends. Mr Puustusmaa said that the EKRE Group was this amendment, and I am thinking of the non-publication of the declaration of interests of the heads of security institutions, which is the result of this draft, as he described in this Chamber. The EKRE does not object to political advisors having to make a declaration of interest, but is opposed to a change related to the heads of security authorities. He also referred to § 12 of the Constitution, which says that everyone is equal before the law. Aivi Sirp replied to this somewhat later, who said that the Supreme Court has repeatedly found that similar groups should be treated equally. There are currently only two institutions belonging to the security authorities: the Foreign Intelligence Service and the Defence Police Department. What is very important is what the Minister also stressed is that the staff of all these staff are state secrets. In these cases, declarations of interest are still not publicly available. When we are talking about equal treatment, this same list, i.e. the authorities of the Defence Police Department and the Foreign Intelligence Department, who have so far submitted declarations of interest, but they have not been public, now has two additional persons. These are the Director General of the Defence Police and the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate; their declaration of interests [according to the draft] will not be made public. In addition, Aivi Sirp said that indeed, as the Minister pointed out, the security situation has changed and people are being profiled, being influenced by the knowledge of various data. Of course, foreign intelligence does not sleep in this situation, but it does not make sense for us to make it easier for [the opponents]. On the other hand, I apologise for adding a personal reply to one of the weights of the risks to the security of Estonia in the event of disclosure, and on the other, the risk of corruption in the absence of disclosure of the declaration of the interests of these two persons, I think that the weight of weight is extremely different. Therefore, I do not think that this is a very serious problem. Moreover, it is very important to note what Mart Helme asked about: they do not get rid of the obligation to submit a declaration of interest. And it is not the case that no one controls their declaration of interests. The declaration of interests of the Ministry of Defence and the Director General of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate is supervised by the Special Committee against Corruption of the Riigikogu. They can take it to the end, and I think that they will certainly have the opportunity to ask questions as well. But this falls within the competence of the special anti-corruption committee of the Riigikogu. On the one hand, Mr Reinsalu praised Mr Lauri for coming to Parliament with this draft. However, Urmas Reinsalu would have liked to see this approach much wider. He pointed out a few such suggestions that were also reflected in this Chamber. He suggested that the draft could complement and add a provision that, in the case of repeated cases, i.e. a legal person has been recidibly convicted of both anti-state crime and corruption crime, this could lead to its compulsory closure. In addition, at the meeting of the Urmas Reinsalu Commission, Urmas Reinsalu suggested that if a legal person has been convicted of repeated corruption offences, the members of the management board should also be subject to a corporate ban. These were the proposals that Urmas Reinsalu pointed out at the meeting of the Commission. Mr Odines also spoke about this, who also spoke in this Chamber today and took part in the committee meeting as an alternate member of Lauri Läänemets. It was also his wish to address the subject in a much broader way. Among other things, he mentioned the same anti-corruption strategy that needs to be adopted, and GRECO has a number of other recommendations. However, as Maris Lauri explained here today, he also said at the Commission meeting that the Government of the Republic last Thursday approved an anti-corruption strategy and that an action plan was being developed in the near future. So this task has been accomplished. In addition, Maris Lauri stated that regulation of lobbying and guidance on avoiding conflicts of interest were being prepared. So this field of work is much wider and the Minister's willingness to deal with all these issues is entirely there. In addition, the Minister noted that GRECO's recommendations must be met by Estonia by the end of March. The Minister also said, as repeatedly in this Chamber, that all these major proposals need more in-depth analysis. Indeed, this draft, which was initiated by the previous government, but which, for a little bit of incomprehensible reasons, did not arrive in this large Chamber, requires more discussion or consideration. It's not right to start stitching a jacket on the button. We should check it out first. Urmas Reinsalu's questions were answered by Mari-Liis Sööt that a business ban exists in the Penal Code. In the case of a criminal offence involving the granting of bribery and power trading, that person shall not be an undertaking for a period to be determined by the court. That was the end of this very thorough and broad debate in the Commission. Finally, the Commission took procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 22 February (this was consensual). Secondly, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped (as well as consensual). And third, appoint Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (also consensual). No separate procedural decision was taken on the deadline for amendments. As explained by the Secretariat, if the deadline for amendments is a general time limit under the law, there is no need for a separate procedural decision. However, for the information of my fellow Members, the deadline for amendments is 9 March. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U194	Good Commissioner, there are no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U195	It's still, I see...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U196	No, it's a call. That's not a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U197	Oh, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U198	And now, indeed, we are going to the negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe has first expressed its wish to speak on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U199	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of the Republic! As we have heard, several political parties in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt that this issue should be dealt with more widely. But now that we have listened to the Minister's presentation, we should still be dealing with more narrowly. To put it more broadly, it is a good thing that corruption is being eradicated, but, if you look at it more narrowly, you are looking at a completely misunderstanding. Here, in one answer, I heard our opponents are resourceful. It's as if our entrepreneurial people aren't inventive in dealing with influence. Well, now that's the problem, you don't have a political advisor to just formalize as a manager's assistant. And then the one who's assistant manager, and who's still knowledge maybe not really coming from, could also be an advisor. Just to tell you. At a time like this, this is legally correct. We never talked here today about sanctions, so what happens if the declaration is not made? I was familiar with the declaration of economic interests for the first time in 2005 when I was in the City Council of Tallinn and was eager to fill them up until it became clear that the mayor of Tallinn, who I am talking about, probably you know, had just forgotten to write that he had received 60 kilos of money from somewhere in Switzerland. Well, I'd forgotten just, poof-poof. And then what was done? They said, "knuckle-knuckle-knuckle." Everything went on. So, what are we dealing with right now? Some of us saw this tree leg four and see what's inside, whether we've gone to Stupid Land in the night to pick out gold coins or not. The rumor that everyone can voluntarily declare it is still not the case. So at one point, you're actually becoming a public figure. I remember that I was properly reprimanded when I started working at the Tallinn City Council. They asked me why I didn't have any loans. Turns out it's actually suspicious when a young person doesn't have loans. In my opinion, the question is that corruption and all this have progressed. Yeah, we remember those times when some deputy mayor went on a family trip somewhere. Today we know that you will get to Egypt with 300 euros, everything is included in the price. Is there now a need for a two-million-dollar decision to influence to some extent for a mere EUR 600? At the same time, in the case of corruption, we do not mention that the trade in influence is wider: not only by moving decisions in a certain direction, but also by knowingly holding some decisions down, or holding them back. After all, this actually leads to some kind of very serious problems, because the deadlines are going over. If it is a PPP project, then the state will first leave it and then the local government will leave it, so maybe in the end, this NGO will be left with this thing in its own right. A separate question is the question of the guardian of conflicts of interest and interests. Just today we discussed this and it turns out that those people who are considered lobbyists are defenders of interests in Estonian. Today it is said that members of the Riigikogu are also defenders of interests. We are defenders of interests, but we are not lobbyists in that sense. In autumn, this issue of protection or lobbying will come up again. But why don't we do all these things at once? Because today we do not really dare to root out political corruption as such, but we will try one, two or three. In order for this package to be more understandable and capable, other extensions could be put in there. One question is what a normal member of the Riigikogu wins from this. These economic interests are actually, well, if you don't have them or the others... For me, a pretty big question is that when people are ludomans, they have gambling addiction and they go to the casino, and if they're already so elderly that they may not need to fill out these declarations or get a loan from the bank, it's very easy: he can win 10,000 euros, a big jackpot, and then, if he's already there with the decision-makers, we can't say anything about it. The draft is still crude, but we hope that we can complement it with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U200	Lauri Läänemets, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is undoubtedly important for the draft that has been prepared in the previous government, which we are dealing with here today. It is very important that we all know and that we can see in a transparent way what the situation is with people who stand next to politicians, who advise them, who help us to make laws, who help us to run the country. It seems to me that this bill is very well. But there is also another side of all this corruption that we discussed before in this Chamber with the honourable minister. I do not think it can be said about any corruption law or corruption prevention activity that one is more important than the other. But I think there are some issues that have a very high impact. And the bigger the impact, the faster you should deal with them. What has a major impact, we have seen, is the prevention, control and eradication of political corruption by political corruption. As far as the Political Financing Monitoring Commission and political parties are concerned, as much as it is, the government's action plan on preventing corruption contains nothing about it. Yeah, the coalition agreement contains something, but it's very difficult to read what's exactly planned. [Bringing out] Some things. I will take note of what the Minister said earlier when I think Mr Ossinovski asked about the draft Social Democrats that we have tabled to strengthen the monitoring of the funding of political parties and political parties at all. The Minister said something about the fact that different political parties have different visions, and I don't think everyone agrees with the things that are in this draft. I understand there are two political parties in the government: the Reform Party and the Centre Party. I immediately asked which party disagreed with these matters. But let's think about what it says. It says about the following things. For example, the Political Financing Monitoring Committee has the right to ask for and receive documents from any person needed to control the things they have to check. I would like to remind you that today it is poorly regulated by law, and in essence the ERJK can only ask the parties for them. [Our Bill] also states that if someone has been punished in criminal proceedings for giving or taking money as a forbidden donation, he will not be able to do so in the next three years. It is also specified how a party who has obtained proceeds or forbidden donations by criminal means can keep money from the state budget. Well, I don't know what could be the problem with these issues, that these things can't be looked at. In my opinion, we need to move much faster with these and quite a lot of other things that the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties has made to the Riigikogu as proposals over several years, and what the Chancellor of Justice has done. Otherwise, we are dealing with councillors, we are dealing with lobbying, and we are dealing with those candy boxes that doctors are getting, all of them are very important issues, but ultimately, this is how time runs out, elections are coming up. We have discussed here that yes, these issues need to be addressed, but nothing has been done. A number of investigations into these issues are still underway. And if you listen to the explanations of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, there are things they should investigate, but they can't. The law says they have to do it, but it doesn't say how. That's not the law. My appeal, my fellow Members and the government, is this: please let us deal quickly with political corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U202	The political groups have no further wish to speak. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 323 be completed. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 March. Today we have no more points on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U203	After the hammer hit, we can, as always on Mondays, use a free microphone. I'd like you to come first to Evgeny Ossinovsky.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U204	Thank you, Mr President. On 20 January, the new President of the United States, Joe Biden, took office and, as one of his first decisions, obliged all federal buildings to wear a mask. It was a sign that after chaotic Trump time, the corona epidemic is now really and evidence-based and resolved. At that point, the United States had an infection rate of 868. On January 26, about 7,000 kilometres away in Tallinn, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas took office. The new Prime Minister also promised that fighting the corona epidemic would be the government's most important task. The Estonian infection rate was 525 that day. And although the December restrictions had led to a rate of infection of less than 1.0, the plateau of infections was so high that the declining trend should have been maintained for another three or four weeks to reduce hospital employment and the risks of spreading new strains. Instead, schools opened up in Estonia and recreational activities were restored. On top of this, the restrictions were also relaxed in the two most infected counties: Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa. The result, of course, did not allow him to wait long. We've lived with this virus long enough to know and deduce certain patterns. Today, Estonia's infection rate has increased by 45%, and in less than a month we have reached 760. But Americans have fallen more than twice to 415. How did we do that? To be honest, I am embarrassed to answer this question because Kaja Kallas is an intelligent person who understands the relationship between cause and effect, knows how to read the epidemiological estimate and understands that the rate of infection increased by 0.2 seems to be a very small number, with only 0.2 in three weeks leading to a doubling of new cases. Is it really the instinctive tendency of the Reform Party to favour business interests over health interests, as has been pointed out here by a good colleague of the Western Forest, or was it the Prime Minister's desire to make rapid popularity because many people are tired of all this distancing? I don't know what the answer is. But the fact that the situation on the Coronary is pretty serious, this day has shown very graphicly and well how the Prime Minister began to distinguish that your government did it, but our government is doing it. And then the former coalition partners weren't too tight, and they tried to shift responsibility back to the other side. Turning responsibility from one government to another is, in my opinion, not something that will take us any further now. But it is important, I think, to note that the truth is in both. The great responsibility and mistake of the previous government was that, on 5 November, when the Scientific Advisory Panel said that country-wide precision restrictions must be implemented quickly to prevent the second wave from occurring, a month was delayed by the introduction of [the restrictions] and the virus was loaded to a very high level of 600. Of course, in this situation, there were risks that this could get out of hand from 600, much bigger by January than when Kaja Kallas' government took office. However, the fact that in this situation it was also decided to ignore some of the proposals made by the Scientific Advisory Board and to take a much lighter path has actually resulted in the result that we are reaching the top of Europe in terms of the infection rate. But, as has been said, the people of Estonia are not really interested in who exactly opened the schools. The important thing is that it was a premature and wrong decision. Our task now undoubtedly is to find and give the Estonian society the necessary message that will be passed on and what choices we have before us. It is clear that it is so bad that it is high time to make a serious systemic decision in the context of this epidemic. Such a semi-decided move forward will actually lead to very serious consequences, 1,500 new cases per day, etc. Consequently, I really hope that the discussions that have taken place today will already bring clear corrections from the government this week, which will aim to bring the coefficient of infection down to 1.0, preferably below 0,9, as suggested by the scientific council, as well as corresponding steps and messages to society in order to achieve this objective. It is our common responsibility and responsibility, indeed, to prevent worse and ultimately to control the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U205	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, I gave a speech from this very remote area about what's come out of wearing masks. As a reminder, the infection increased after the order had to start wearing masks. I basically asked the scientific council to review these things, see if there could be any connection between the fact that we're wearing masks everywhere. And interesting-interesting, today I took off [website] crisis.ee and it says that indeed masks do not hold onto this coronavir, but wearing a mask reduces the spread of the virus when worn indoors, where there are a number of people together. The wearing of a mask reduces the possibility that through social contacts, coughing, and sneezing, infections can reach other people. A mask can also help a healthy person if a carrier coughs or sneezes at him. Exactly the same thing that Mr Lutsar said at the government press conference on 15 April. And another interesting observation from the crisis.ee: The mask does not usually make sense to wear at home or outside. But I didn't really want to talk about it. I want to talk about what I didn't tell you last time. It's about testing. As we know, smart books say that the virus's nucleic acid RNA is determined by a PCR method. The detection of viral RNA is used in Estonia and elsewhere in the world to detect coronavirus and, in the case of a positive result, to diagnose COVID-19 for the first time on the basis of a sample taken from the nasal cavity. We actually test, test, test every day. We are finding more and more sick people, and we are now the second most infected in Europe. But I still have a little doubt about this infection rate, based on an important event. The event consisted in the fact that the esteemed Peep Talving, the hospital's chief physician, received a speck of urine in his face from a villain. Urine light up his eye on the cornea. As a doctor, he immediately took action, took a canister of urine left by the car, and went to the regional hospital to test the ER. I stress: test. Peep Talving then says in "Ringview" that she seemed to have a little HIV residue in [the sample], after which she was subjected to a well-sensitive PCR test and, luckily, she still didn't have HIV. What do you think of that sentence? A test was carried out, and at first there were HIV particles. After it was done again and it wasn't. In fact, it is a manipulation of the truth, which shows that we can manipulate the tests and, in principle, detect the disease even in those who may not have it. Two more examples. In Paide nursing homes, a case of coronal disease was detected. Close the house! But fortunately, the Health Department found out he didn't really have one. Another example of the Riigikogu hall right here. A good colleague's husband went to the hospital for treatment. A negative test was carried out. In four hours, it'll be positive. Treatment was discontinued and [wife] was placed in another chamber. He insisted on a new test, a positive test. In four hours, the character from the Health Department will be running in. We messed things up in the lab. There's a reason: testing costs money. On 21 February, 4589 people were tested at a minimum price of EUR 58 [per person]. This amounts to EUR 266162. Today, Kaja Kallas said that, in total, we have tested 895000 persons, or EUR 52 million. What I'm trying to say is that the testers have a direct interest in profiting. And if you're saying I'm telling the wrong story, Peep Talving shouldn't be a doctor right now, but he's treating HIV, but he's going to keep working. So it's possible. The government must take this issue into consideration, because otherwise I will remember a song from ABBA (1976) Money, money, money. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U207	And now, please, here's Lauri of the West Forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U208	Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that we are in a very difficult situation because of the health crisis, which is what we have never been before and certainly do not want to be. Of course, various measures must be taken to overcome this crisis. And, of course, health must be protected, but it must not be done in such a way as to create more inequality and injustice. If the government decides to impose restrictions and people cannot do anything, and if we want people to comply with these restrictions, then conditions must also be created to comply with them. Consider, for example, a situation where a person turns out to be in close contact and has to be at home for at least 10 days or even a virus carrier and must be at home for at least two weeks or more. As of today, there will be compensation for sickness expenses from the second day of your stay at home. But unfortunately, only 70% of last year's average salary is paid. When we think about people who make 700 euros a month, their family loses nearly 100 euros. The issue with these people is not that they do not want to follow the restrictions, but that they cannot follow them. They need to feed their family, they need to pay their home rent, utilities. These people are actually in quite a difficult situation. I think that if we want us to come out of these restrictions or from this viral situation, we have to deal with the other side. This is not something that has been dealt with at the moment. One way of doing this is through a draft tabled by the Social Democrats, which would at least allow people to pay 100% of their salaries during the period of the virus, and not 70%. [It should not be] that a person who gets into the most difficult situation, for example, loses his job, must also bear all the costs of getting out of the viral crisis in society. When we talk about school, about staying at home and stopping school, we don't know if it's gonna be for a week or a much longer period. In fact, a fair approach is needed here too. In this sense, it is fair that, if the government has taken decisions and those decisions have been more restrictive than the spread of the virus, but contribute to its spread, and as a result the infection has increased, it will be very unfortunate if it is to be borne by the young people who go to school. In their case, it is not just a question of not being able to learn, but of missing a piece in the future for these young people. They just don't have the advantage they may have had when they went to school. In fact, the very important question is that if children have to stay at home, we must enable them to get an education. We need to allow their parents, for example, to come home, perhaps early from work. Perhaps it must be compensated for by entrepreneurs, perhaps it must be compensated for by parents. But above all, we should stand by the fact that the sufferers are not children. Those who carry the burden of this virus or crisis in Estonia, those who lose their jobs, those who have to stay out of their studies, those who are otherwise caught between the wheels of the teeth, should not be the only ones who pay for it with their lives and pain. If we put social constraints on society to get out of this difficult situation, then we must also have equal responsibility as a society. It is not just that employers are in trouble and worried. Businesses may have a better voice pipe and, of course, they must be helped, but the most important thing here is that these companies are made up of people. The country is made up of people. Let us not impose restrictions if we do not create opportunities for people to comply with these restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-22_U209	Ladies and gentlemen, There are no more calls in the free microphone. That means we're done today. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00! Today's trial is over.
