ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Let's start our regular briefing. Checking for presence first.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U2	21 members of the Riigikogu are present, 80 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Jaak Aab, Minister of Education and Science, and Rain Epler, Minister of the Environment. And, as usual, first of all, members of the previously registered Riigikogu will be able to ask the question. They will also have the opportunity to clarify the question and then the question of the floor. There are two minutes to ask the question, three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U3	First, Yoko Alender asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'd like to ask you about the vaccination. This, in my opinion, is the most important thing right now in order to emerge from the corona crisis. A vaccination plan has been adopted on 14 December. According to this, we should have vaccinated risk groups in the first quarter, as well as 'frontier workers'. Could you be more specific about who these front line workers are? Are there also kindergarten teachers, school teachers, whose existence, in order for education to continue, is crucial? Also, is this quantity of vaccines that have come to Estonia and are coming to Estonia, as you know, enough to reach, in the second quarter of 2021, that anyone who wishes to be vaccinated can have them? So, what's the status? And are vaccinations at these primary vaccination sites, such as nursing homes, family doctor's centres and other medical facilities sufficient, or have you also discussed the possibility of creating emergency additional vaccination points, just as emergency testing points were very successfully established?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Happy Question Time Watchers! Thank you for your question. I shall first apologize to the President of the Riigikogu and to the Riigikogu, but since I understand that there is no exact procedure, the questioner will also. But I have to... I have been told that in any case, the Riigikogu must inform the Riigikogu, and I will do so now. I informed the President of the Republic today of the resignation of the Government of the Republic and, according to the law, I hereby inform the Riigikogu. Now that we go to vaccination, the general objective of vaccination is certainly to prevent infection and disease with the COVID-19 virus. You asked who's first. We have said that health care workers are the first thing, then other people working in health care institutions, from there we want to go to care institutions. But true, already in these first weeks, parallel vaccination has actually been carried out both in health care facilities and in care facilities. There are about 30,000 health workers and other people working in health care facilities, with about 25,000 people living in care facilities. All people over 70 years of age and people with a certain diagnosis of these are already over 250,000, nearly 260000. The aim is to vaccinate health care professionals during January. You asked if kindergarten teachers, teachers' assistants and other kindergarten staff could be included in the first order of business. First of all, there are three of the groups mentioned above and they are not there. True, as I said, all the people over 70 are in there, and I think that once vaccination has been carried out in health care facilities and care facilities, the real thing is to move on to education, including kindergartens, plus police and rescue. But I think we should go to business too. Many people are exposed to a lot of people every day, such as cashiers at shops. These are the areas where I think it is most likely to get a virus or get sick because there are so many contacts. It is also true that this hope, which was a few months ago, that we would be able to carry out vaccination much faster throughout Europe, has not been fulfilled. We have failed because the number of doses of vaccine is not what was expected at the end of the year. However, I would like to say to you, thank you very much to the European Union, that the European Union has still tried to talk these vaccines out of the various vaccine producers as a result of the joint negotiations. If there were negotiations with 27 countries, I fear we would not be as good as we are today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U6	Yoko Alender, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U7	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Prime Minister! In the case of vaccination, it has been decided that it is voluntary in Estonia. It is vital that we inform people of all available scientific information that the vaccine is safe and really works. What's the communication plan? Do we have many influential people in the country and are there plans to show in any other way than it has been done so far that the vaccine is crucial for the health of the whole country, that it is safe that the vaccines that Estonia has purchased have been tested? For this reason, too, the joint procurement process led to an extra check on these vaccines. Are there any further ideas on how to make this communication so that people would like to vaccinate themselves in the interests of everyone's health?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U8	Thank you very much. I think that an announcement, in a good sense an appeal to the Estonian people, is that you should vaccinate. Vaccination is important, very important. You said that vaccination must be voluntary. I think it's a very correct principle, and it could stay that way. But, yes, the question is, if we take the latest tests, the number of people who want to get vaccinated will fluctuate around 60%. I think our ambition could be higher, more residents might want to be vaccinated. Now the information campaigns or the information you asked about. Should this be done more intensively? Yes, I think it must definitely be done more intensively at some point. But this information campaign cannot be lied to by the state. We can't say you're gonna come and vaccinate, that there are known people who are being vaccinated, and then people are gonna come and vaccinate, they're gonna call their family doctors, but they're gonna be told that there are no doses of vaccines in Estonia right now. This has been a very clear reason why we have said that, as a matter of priority, there really are health and care facilities and beyond. Today we know that the number of doses of Pfizer is likely to increase slightly from next week. It doesn't give us much relief, but it does give us some relief. We have also discussed at government level that Pfizer has actually offered to buy extra doses to all Member States of the European Union. It's been asked whether they want to buy or not. Estonia has decided that we want more than 100,000 doses from Pfizer with this extra offer. I hope that this will provide an opportunity to speed up vaccination, particularly in the second and third quarters. When we are talking about such a large public campaign, during which the people of Estonia who are known and loved in various areas of life will be vaccinated, I think it is absolutely necessary to show this positive image at some point. But we have to consider, as I have already said, that there is no point in making a false advertisement to come all the way to the store, but there is no bread in the store. In this sense, it is important that we give the right messages to society. Now, I'm sure there's hope for new vaccine candidates. News has come that they may be granted marketing authorisation in the near future. The arrival of Moderna vaccine on the market will certainly provide an opportunity for Estonia to receive an additional vaccine. But all these numbers are actually much smaller than those forecast in the last few months of last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U9	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U10	Thank you for the floor. I will continue on the subject of vaccination. More specifically, about the teachers. At the end of the year, you made a political statement here before the Riigikogu. On the same day, the initial vaccination plan was made public and it stated that the police, rescuers and teachers would be in the next order after vaccination of the groups at risk. I ask: has this plan been specified for today? Can you tell us exactly when the vaccination could reach the teachers and how the vaccination of the teachers is planned? For example, could these vaccinations take place in schools? And do you treat all teachers as teachers, that is, all those who work in general education schools, vocational schools, kindergartens and faculty at universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U11	Thank you. That is correct: the vaccination plan first sets out two important principles. One is that those doctors-sisters and midwives who have also completed basic immunisation training and further training in the last five years can be vaccinated. The vaccination plan also states that vaccination sites include hospitals, family doctors' centres, nursing homes, workplaces employing vital service providers and other frontier workers with a higher risk of infection, as well as an infection clinic and vaccination offices. Could vaccination be carried out in educational establishments? It is, of course, very important that this is carried out by the people who have received the relevant training. Is the education sector in any way neglected alongside health care and nursing homes? No, it's not. I believe that internal security and education are important. But, as I said, we should also look at certain areas of the private sector, which should be given the possibility of vaccination in the next stage, when healthcare and nursing homes are basically circled. Should general education and early childhood education be viewed differently? I don't think we should look at them. They need to be looked at together. And with them, you definitely have to look at universities and other colleges. We know that there is a great deal of work for senior associate professors and professors. It is clear that it should also be based on the principle that those who are at greater risk of falling ill and who are at greater risk of seriously suffering from this disease should be given priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U13	Next, Indrek Saar asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U14	Thank you for the floor. Dear George Ratas! Although you have announced your resignation today, you will continue to act as Prime Minister, as long as the Riigikogu has not appointed a new one. You will also continue to be the chairman of the Centre Party. And consequently, I have a very substantive question concerning today's agenda proposed by the Riigikogu, where, as a result of your current coalition agreement, there is one point that has proved very important for the coalition. We are talking about a referendum on the concept of marriage. Here's my question for you. Do you, Jüri Ratas, continue to consider the organisation of this marriage referendum necessary for Estonia and do you agree with the clear statement of your party partner, Mr Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, following the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which sent this draft decision to this Chamber in its current form, that this is an illegal decision, which is certainly contrary at least to the law of the House and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and probably to the Constitution as a result? Your parliamentary experience is so long that it certainly does not make sense for you to say that you do not know how this draft has been dealt with, and you cannot therefore give your assessment. Maybe again, I'll ask you two more questions. Do you think that such a referendum is necessary for Estonia? Secondly, do you agree that the draft proposed in this form constitutes a draft illegal decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U15	Thank you for that question. First of all, I really think there could be referendums in Estonia, why not also referenda much more frequently than there have been today. This party, to which I belong, the Estonian Centre Party, has always supported the possibility that we could have a popular initiative in the Constitution. Indeed, in my opinion, there could be much more of these referendums and referendums in Estonian society during the inter-election period. If we appreciate it, it must have been every 17 or 18 years ago. Now, yes, you are right, the political situation has changed very strongly in yesterday's day. I announced tonight, during the first hours of the new date, the resignation of the Government of the Republic. And it is clear that the government, which has resigned, says the law, but I also consider it essentially right, basically large political initiatives should no longer be undertaken. This should be the decision of the new coalition to be dealt with. But, of course, this will be decided once and for all by the Riigikogu. But yes, I very much support such referendums. Now your second question is whether the marriage referendum should take place, whether it is necessary for Estonia. We have seen how important and emotional these discussions have been. I think it was one national broadcasting interview at the beginning of the year, where I said and I say it in this Chamber too, that I think we actually have to stand up for different family models to be protected in Estonia. If we are now talking about marriage, about marriage between a man and a woman, I understand that the next step is to say that in fact, same-sex marriage is allowed in Estonia, but we must honestly admit that we are one step short of it. And I've said that in some of my interviews. This degree is related to the Cohabitation Act, which has been passed in the Riigikogu, but in fact there is no final legal clarity in this regard in the civil partnership. I mean the implementing acts here. So I think if we say in any case that marriage is between a man and a woman and personally I have chosen such a family model, then we should actually come to this hall with the issue of protecting other family models. Now the question of the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: whether it is legitimate or not. I think that this whole process requires a very strong insight and assessment, which still needs to be done by the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, so that the work of the Riigikogu is not in fact paralyzed in certain cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U16	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U17	Thank you for your answers. With regard to this issue, given the events of yesterday and the reservations raised by the Centre Party regarding the legality of the funding of the Centre Party, I must ask you another question that relates to this whole process. During the awkward discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Anti Poolamets, said, among other things, that if a precedent for a decision on a marriage referendum were to be rammed through and created by force, the same tactic could be used to adopt the draft law on the liquidation of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, which is to be remembered in Parliament because the Social Democrats tabled 50000 amendments to it at the time. You did not consider it necessary to break this obstruction with a vote of confidence by the government. But the Anti Poolamets indicated that this precedent, created by the marriage referendum, could also be applied to the draft ERJK. Are you aware of such an agreement? And do you know that the members of the Centre Party Group have entered into such an agreement with the coalition partners that if this methodology is used for the draft decision on the marriage referendum, as has been used in the referral to the Chamber of the Riigikogu, the same scheme is intended to be used to eliminate the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, which has been an important initiative for the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U18	Thank you for this question. If you ask if there is such an agreement, then no, there is no such agreement. I think, however, that it is clearly absurd to put forward proposals to amend a decision or draft law, which, in fact, do not want to improve the content of the draft text in any way, it is not in line with the meaning of the law. These proposals are clearly presented in order to do everything possible to prevent the draft from being dealt with here in the Riigikogu Chamber. I don't think that's right. I think that the Riigikogu actually needs to be able to deal with various political initiatives and make democratic decisions as the Riigikogu always does. The decision shall be delivered by majority vote. Now, you have highlighted this parallel of the ERJK, about which I have already answered here in Riigikogu Question Time and will continue to answer. This, in my opinion, has been intended to increase the quality of the supervision of political party funding. The truth is that if 50,000 proposals are made for the draft, the question is whether it could be linked to the government's trust. I don't think this is a subject to be linked to the government's trust. That doesn't look good. I'm still following the separation of powers. Executive power does not regulate legislative power; it is within your competence, the honourable Riigikogu. But I think that whoever is currently in the coalition and in the opposition and who is in the coalition and opposition tomorrow, in fact, the moment that has emerged in connection with this referendum would require a more serious insight. You referred to my experience or being here in the Riigikogu, which has really been a little less than ten years. Sometimes there have even been such initiatives that the composition tries to agree on a better home and working arrangements for the next composition, but this has never succeeded. Ideas and thoughts have been very good and excellent, they say that such a cross-party agreement is wanted, and the first meetings are going to be fun, but when a decision has to be made, very many proposals will not be left on the table, or rather there will be zero proposals. I think it should actually be discussed. If we had voted through these 9000 proposals, although there were a lot of absurd and, in my opinion, embarrassing proposals, the work of the Riigikogu might have stopped for a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U19	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I think there are few politicians in Estonia who realise that this whole draft decision was quite an illegal process. There's been a lot of talk about this. The way it has crossed our Home and Working Procedures Act as a roadroll is a precedent. I must say that with my two-day parliamentary term, I am quite surprised that such things can be done in Estonia. I really hope that such precedents will no longer happen in the Estonian state, that the rights of members of the Riigikogu and good parliamentary practice will be passed over. But I'd like to come back to the marriage referendum for a second. I strongly believe that this was very difficult for all the families you mentioned in one of your responses. We have many and very different families. In fact, the topic was raised and the discussions that arose around it have hurt thousands and thousands of people in Estonia. Prime Minister, do you also see your personal guilt in the fact that thousands of people in Estonia have been greatly hurt by this whole discussion? Don't you think it's right to apologize to all those people who have been badly hurt by your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U21	Thank you, Mr Odines. I sincerely wish you much strength in the very important and responsible work of the Riigikogu. I dare say that this is a very interesting job and you have many opportunities here to help the people of Estonia and Estonia. Now that I come to your question, we have family law today. Family law clearly states that marriage is between a man and a woman in Estonia. This was also a fundamental question of the marriage referendum according to this draft decision of the Riigikogu. If you're saying that the question of whether a marriage is between a man and a woman hurts, there's no way I can agree with that. Because it's in the law. And I also have an inner sense of myself that I think this is the right direction. At the same time, I have said it many times in my interviews, also here in Question Time, and I am also telling you that, in my view, in the interests of legal clarity, the next step should be taken in relation to the partnership law. In fact, this issue has not been fully dealt with and implementing acts have still not been adopted when we are talking about civil partnership. There's no way I can sense that the question of marriage between a man and a woman would hurt or that there would be some guilt. I'm ready to stand for it. I think that's the right principle. So if you ask me what my opinion is, it's really my opinion. But I think we really need to ensure that there can be different family models. All other family models are not just same-sex family models. There are also many family models, whether common - law marriages or single - parent families, and there are certainly more family models. Estonia must definitely be such a society, a country in which we do everything to make different families, different families in different parts of Estonia feel safe, feel safe. That, of course, must be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U22	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U23	Next, Liina Kersna asks and is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U24	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! Your ministry has sent a new early childhood education law to the public coordination circle, which has been prepared for a very long time. There are a lot of important changes to the plan. I want to ask you more specifically about the new commitment we're planning. Pre-school children who are at home are obliged to visit the institution designated by the municipality once a year from the age of three, either at the kindergarten or at the support centre, at the development assessment and at the interview. Indeed, the law clearly states that this must be done from the age of three, once a year until school. Children of this age who do not attend kindergarten are known to be 5600 in Estonia. When I read the draft explanatory statement, I understand that the Ministry of Education and Research has the knowledge that half of the children who do not attend kindergarten may have problems with basic education. That's what the explanatory memorandum says. My question is: how do you define what problem the Ministry of Education and Research is trying to solve with this provision? Is it that schools need to get more information about the children who go to school? They may not have a school ready-to-school card, and it needs to be created. Or is it a social problem that we are trying to solve? So maybe you'll specify what problem we're solving.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U25	Honourable Chairman! Good questioner! Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the opportunity to present the principles contained in this draft law on early childhood education, which actually just went to the coordination circle. Well, I guess it's based on the best of knowledge. We follow these principles, which are set out as strategic objectives, as the most important principles in the development plan in the field of education, which has already reached the Riigikogu. The Committee on Culture has discussed this development plan. These principles have been taken into account so that we can assess the child's development needs as soon as possible. When you asked if the most important thing is that the school knows what school readiness is, I think it's also a goal. But the most important thing is to actually know how the children who don't go to kindergarten develop. In kindergarten, this development assessment takes place either well or badly, it is a matter of its own; there is certainly room for improvement here too. So far, children who are at home and go to school are often out of attention. No one has assessed their development as a specialist. But rather, it is meant that we do not evaluate either the parent or the teacher if the child acquires knowledge in a non-formal form, but we try to monitor the development of the child in order to provide him or her with all the support that can be provided in the form of either support services, supportive learning as soon as possible. You can also explain to your parent what needs his child might have. We are convinced that this kind of developmental activity is fit for purpose. As assessed here, perhaps half of the children who come from their home environment do not have schooling. This figure should definitely decrease. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U26	Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U27	Thank you very much for your answer. I still don't quite understand how big this problem is what we're going to solve. There are 5,600 children, but surely it cannot be said that all children who do not go to kindergarten have any obstacles to development or that their growing environment does not support development in any way. I think that there are more and more parents who are very consciously making the decision that they are not putting their children in kindergarten and are also developing them very successfully at home. I wonder if this is really the best solution to this problem, a real check every year since the age of three. It seems to me that, for example, if we would simply give parents the opportunity, either once a year or at some other intervals, to visit specialists with their children to assess their development, this would also help solve the problem. I have been working in the Committee on Social Affairs for more than five years now, and it seems that the Ministry of Education has perhaps gone to solve the social problem. But if we know that we have children who do not grow in a supportive development environment, then we have a child protection system and this should probably be the subject of child protection. What do you say this problem is what we're going to solve with a real commitment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U28	Thank you for your question. The draft is currently being coordinated. It's prepared with better knowledge. In fact, representative organisations of kindergarten teachers, universities, relevant specialists, the Ministry, and local authorities have also been consulted. Yeah, there's basically two options. This could be offered on a voluntary basis at first. But when I talk about this template, as it says here, we will definitely specify, during the procedure of the draft, the possible evaluation procedure, the one who could participate in it, the assessment that could be made. And indeed, the bill also relates to the social sphere either way. As we have recently read, there are problems in kindergarten and school in providing different support for children with special needs, including talented ones. So we have to solve this together. The Ministry of Social Affairs has planned to come up with such a joint package in the near future and to present possible measures to help us deal with these special needs, with children in need of different kinds of support, both in kindergarten and at school. Somehow, it is not the case that educational support services run like one pipe and social and health services run by another pipe, and eventually they have to come together somewhere. And the key players are still the local government and its specialists. Just as you said, a child welfare specialist should definitely be in charge of this evaluation, monitoring. He sees the situation from his own perspective. Mandatory, however, is the place of choice. Specialists have considered it necessary that it be compulsory. Then no one will be left behind and we will be able to support as many children as possible and we will not get into trouble at this school level. As early as possible, we can support the child and the parent if the child needs some support. But it's a question of choice. It is certainly one way to start with volunteering and see what results will come. I won't deny it. But there's time to deal with it, right now we're asking for opinions. At one point, this bill will reach the government and then the Riigikogu, so you can make your proposals too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U29	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If I listen to what you're saying, I'm still going to have to hear that we're trying to do certain things coercively. I think this is such a very important philosophical question. Families could still have the opportunity to develop their own children. Indeed, when a child goes to kindergarten, both his or her educators and their colleagues may notice certain social problems. And because of that, it's like we can say that if a child doesn't go to kindergarten, these problems go unnoticed. But forced control, in my opinion, is clearly problematic. When we remember the old days, there was this kind of preschool checkup. You did the tests, and then they told me if you were going to school before the seventh year or not. And when you were okay, you got to go to school when you were seven. Doesn't it seem to you that we put too much resources into a multifunctional service that we want to create, but we miss out on simple and practical solutions based on volunteering? Surely there are a certain percentage of people and families in which this compulsion causes problems. And I don't think they need to be created, it could cause a lot of worse problems. That's the kind of freedom I think the family should have.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U31	Thank you for your question. There really is a place of choice here, and I'm not saying that there has to be this one template. For some reason, specialists, the Ministry, also interest groups, have supported it. Maybe it's just kind of like kindergartens or, let's say, professionals' view of this problem. This certainly also relates to the rest of the social and child welfare work in the municipality. I don't think those kids are gonna miss out, even those who don't come in there to check. And one might well consider that it is voluntary, that a parent has a chance to go somewhere to evaluate a child or to evaluate it himself. It wouldn't be coercive, it wouldn't spend every year on this one assessment. There really are more options. But we also need to talk to the local authorities, because such an obligation, or even voluntary, to go to control, still puts an additional burden on the local authorities. One problem is the lack of specialists, as we know thanks to the audit of the National Audit Office. The situation has improved lately, but there is still a lot of room for improvement. However, I think that all the approaches that lead to support the development of the child as soon as possible are good. And whatever, it could be social or child health problems. It will be noticed, and the child will be directed to where he or she needs help. At the moment, we are mainly talking about children who need support, who could receive first aid from a municipal child welfare specialist or a social worker. From there you can either direct your municipality's support services to specialists or also to public services. We offer rehabilitation and other things. The goal is for as many children and parents as possible to receive support. We do not want to be forced to evaluate children; we want to support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U33	Let us move on to the next question posed by the Mart Võrguship. He will be answered by Minister of the Environment Rain Epler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Forestry is an issue that clearly fuels our passions in society, and the Forest Development Plan 2021 to 2030 is one document that could create some clarity and reconcile sides. It's a road map to follow. Unfortunately, it's stuck in different problems. Now you've been in the ministry for a while. One problem has been the strategic environmental assessment, at least that is what we have been told here. It has been explained that it has been difficult to find a partner to do so. I would ask for an overview of the state of strategic environmental assessment. In the light of this, I also ask what is the perspective of time: when can we achieve the adoption of the forestry development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U35	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, strategic evaluation has been a complex part of this process. Today we are in a state where the call for a strategic evaluation has ended. We haven't gotten to the contract yet. Today, as far as I know, the first days are running the 30-day period during which the outcome of the procurement can be contested. But I very much hope that we will reach the conclusion of the agreement within 30 days. As far as this development plan is concerned, as we know, the Steering Board for the development plan is not present today. I have held consultations with various people in various areas related to forestry in order to form this new assembly. I would also like to point out here that there is an instance called the Forestry Council, whose role was to support the implementation of this development plan, which was in force until 2020, and by involving stakeholders to contribute to the resolution of forestry's strategic problems. One possible alternative that I have thought about is to add a little more to the lines of this Council. Maybe then we'll get a pretty good board of directors. It is not yet a decision made, but it is one of the possible alternatives on the table. Perhaps it is worth mentioning that this is not directly related to the development plan, but it is linked to another legislative act regulating forestry, a regulation concerning the establishment of an optimal accounting gap for the State Forest Management Centre for a period of five years, that this issue has also been raised in the press and that an amendment to this regulation should be prepared this afternoon. We are saying very clearly that the new regulation that will be in force will repeal the previous ones. If so far there was a great deal of flexibility in the implementation of the five-year work, then now this first year is still fixed much more rigidly. We leave so-called 5% flexibility there to avoid excessive bureaucracy. And another major change is that cuttings carried out for some extraordinary reasons in mature forests go into accounting. Perhaps if a mature forest is damaged somewhere, the entire forest will be cut down less.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U36	Mart Networker, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U37	Thank you for your answer. A few things, however, I would ask for clarification. Replacing the Forestry Council with the Steering Board, I understand, is not quite certain yet. But the question is, when will you decide? It will probably also play a role in the future process of the forestry development plan in order for it to move quickly. And another question you may have missed: when could the forestry development plan get so far that it is mature for adoption or at least for adoption?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U38	First of all, it was not a question of replacing the Council with the Steering Board or vice versa. The idea that is currently on the table is that a governing body can be formed on the basis of the Forestry Council. The Forestry Council covers quite a variety of forest-related areas and includes people with very good expertise. And as far as the deadline is concerned, the deadlines for the forestry development plan have been on the table before, but they have broken apart. I'd still get the board set up first. Hopefully this will happen in January. At the first meeting of the Steering Board, I would also like to take part and perhaps jointly set a goal for the development plan to be completed. Of course, we all know that we can't stall it any longer. But today we're in the position where we are. So let's try to move faster than we've done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U39	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U40	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In forestry, this tense confrontation is gaining momentum, especially in relation to areas of increased public interest. We're talking about either the Häädemeeste beach forest or some other places. In this context, you have proposed to the State Forest Management Centre that cuttings be suspended until agreements with communities are concluded. And it is precisely this agreement that is a very big problem. On the other hand, you have claimed that you have no opportunity or right to interfere in the work of the State Forest Management Centre. At the same time, there are two representatives of the Ministry on the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. And that raises questions now. Will the Ministry and the State Forest Management Centre get along with each other, and what are the objectives and views of each of them on how to proceed now? The background is so much that reducing the logging plan is also your own party's election promise, as well as your own message. I want to ask you how you cooperate with the State Forest Management Centre. And what are your options to influence the choice of felling species in areas of increased public interest and also the formation of felling volumes? How does this process even work? Can you describe it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U41	Thank you. Yeah, maybe a few details. I have not proposed to stop cutting in general, but in a specific case where we and the community entered such a wider public-enabled discussion. It seemed reasonable that, while we were discussing these matters, they could stand by. But now a little more general. It is the duty of the state to stand up for different interests and, of course, one of the important interests is the protection of nature and its diversity. Nature's biodiversity is becoming more and more important. But on the other hand, jobs, especially in rural areas, also have the interest of forest owners and the opportunity to earn income from their forests or to get high-quality timber from the forest for economic activity. Perhaps it is important to draw attention to the fact that within large limits the principles of forest management are established by the Forest Act of the Riigikogu and perhaps by some other law. Thus, both the Ministry of the Environment and the State Forest Management Centre have the right, on the one hand, but also the obligation to deliver within these limits. I would also like to point out that the Chancellor of Justice has recently been asked to give an opinion on the management of forests near these KAH areas and people's habitats. On the one hand, the Chancellor of Justice says that, of course, inclusion is important. And that's what I think. I think it is important, in terms of inclusion, that both sides come to these engagement discussions with goodwill and the desire to really come to an agreement. Sometimes, following these discussions, it seems that there may be other goals involved. And perhaps a more specific remark that the legislator, the Riigikogu, has not laid down any specific requirements for the management of forests located near settlement units. There are no specific requirements purely because the forest is close to the settlement unit. But I would also like to remind you that RMK, in such places, complies with the general forest management requirements and is based on the natural situation of a particular region, the restrictions in force, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U42	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U43	The next question is on Mr Ossinovski and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U44	Thank you, Mr President. As the political situation changes, I am taking my question off the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U46	Let's go to the next question. The questioner is Signe Riisalo and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U47	Thank you, President of the sitting. I turn to you, George Ratas, with such concern. To date, there is a vaccine to prevent the spread of the corona virus, and all countries are making maximum efforts to protect their populations as well as possible in order to emerge from the crisis. I do not want to assess whether Estonia has done well or not so far. But my hope, like all Estonians, is very great. But from here on out, I'll look into the next one. As the number of people vaccinated and the number of victims increases, the time is ever closer if we should be prepared to alleviate restrictions and open society. And to do that, we need a plan just as much as we need a plan to make restrictions, to vaccinate or to restore the economy. And that is why I have an interest in finding out whether the individual temporary immunity associated with penetration and vaccination confers any advantage over restrictions, for example in close contact, or whether it completely relieves itself of restrictions, such as self-insulation. I also wonder what the government's plan is. On 22 December, at the end of the year, the Ministry of Social Affairs published an action plan, but it does not clearly indicate when restrictions imposed under the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases are no longer imposed by the Government of the Republic or when restrictions cannot be imposed on this basis at all because they are no longer a new or particularly dangerous infectious disease in legal terms. And from here on: it is a fact that in May, when we changed the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and the Emergency Act, it was still up to the Chancellor of Justice that the urgent recommendation was also to review the texts of those laws so that all parties have a clear role to play in imposing restrictions or even abandoning them. How far is it to change these laws? When could it come to the Riigikogu? What is being changed, and what is the plan for mitigating and exiting the restrictions? I'm sorry I went over time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U48	Thank you very much for your question. I'm sorry for once! Good Evgeny, I really admire this step of yours. I assumed there would be a serious debate between us here. But thank you! Now, in answer to your question, Mrs Riisalo, I say that it is true that when we talk about people who have been vaccinated and who have been vaccinated with two doses, as prescribed, it will take either 21 days for different vaccines or this number of days has now changed slightly, but, let's say, in the order of three to four to five weeks. Scientific research shows that human resistance to COVID-19 will increase considerably by then. Noticeably, very hard! In my opinion, the legitimate question is that if a person has been vaccinated or his COVID-19 test has been positive, he has suffered from the disease, then what happens: whether the restrictions on these people should be relaxed. I think, yes, we should be relieved. We discussed this yesterday morning at the cabinet meeting of the Government of the Republic, where COVID was also on the table. The opinion of the Scientific Advisory Board, at least the opinion of the Chairman of the Advisory Board, has been that if we are together indoors and any of us have suffered from COVID-19 or have been vaccinated, certain confidence measures should remain. What are these? Definitely wearing a mask, definitely disinfecting your hands and, if you can, keeping a distance. Why is this important? What is important is that there may be asymptomatic people among us, whether the virus can actually be transmitted in one, another, or third way. So in order not to pass on the virus, confidence measures must be applied. But, for example, when travelling internationally, there is a very big question about what this document could be, what I will show in border controls when I say that I have been vaccinated or I have been suffering from COVID-19, do not now test me here; I should not have any obstacles to entry. This solution has not yet been finally agreed. We'll keep working on it, I believe, tomorrow and next week. It's supposed to be some kind of medical evidence that's being shown. I've made a certain deal with the WHO, but it's a bit of future music that could be called a vaccine passport or a digital passport confirming that a person has been vaccinated. As far as I am aware, the analysis of the restrictions allowed by the law is ongoing. People wonder if something needs to be changed quickly. In my opinion, there is no need to change anything quickly at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U49	Signe Riisalo, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U50	Thank you. Mr. Jüri Ratas, you came to the traveling section yourself. Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu has touched on this before, and I would like to ask whether there is a hidden risk if we give the right to travel to those who have been vaccinated, if there is also a rule of the European Union or a burden of proof. Does this not conflict with the principle that vaccination is voluntary? It's like we're telling people that your limitations are linked to your voluntary choice. How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U51	Thank you. First of all, I think that vaccination must be voluntary. I would be guided by the principle that if there are two people, one says yes, I want to vaccinate, the other says, I do not want to vaccinate, both decisions have certain consequences. When a person says that I want to be vaccinated, we need to be based on an assessment by scientists who say that it is impossible to get infected. I think he should get a chance to move more freely, without restrictions. I recognise that this solution requires a very broad international agreement. There is no final agreement, as I said. There is no agreement on the basis of which this document will proceed. I'm sure the sentence that I've been vaccinated isn't enough. I do not know if this parallel is correct, but it is our wish now that everyone who comes from abroad to Estonia will take the test. And if they do a test abroad, let's say 72 hours before they reach Estonia, that's three days away, then they should actually have themselves tested here in Estonia four days later. And then they're completely free of restrictions, free from quarantine, if both tests are negative. After the first negative test, a person can already deliver here in Estonia, if necessary, to the shop, but not to other places. And at the same time, we say that a person does not need to be tested. Anyone who does not want to test if he has come from abroad must remain either self-insulation or quarantine. There's a choice here, too. I don't see that we're restricting any rights in any way. It is clear that we are actually standing by to prevent the virus from spreading. This is particularly important in the light of the new information that came from Britain at the end of last year: there is a mutant virus that spreads faster, which infects faster. And in light of that, it is certainly important, point one, that we get as many people as possible vaccinated. And point two is that when a person comes from abroad, the first message I think should be: testing, testing and testing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U52	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I think most people in Estonia understand that this virus can be restricted primarily by the Estonian person's behaviour if he avoids contacts and wears a mask. And the second option is vaccination. A lot is said that vaccine doses are not enough for Estonia. However, last week's Eyewitness also touched on the subject that we have a number of people who think that there is almost no corona. And another number of people think that vaccination doesn't make any sense, they believe in all kinds of conspiracy theories in this area. Do you think, Prime Minister, can we vaccinate the Estonian people? Even if we can get enough doses, does a large enough part of the population need to be vaccinated, so we can stop the virus?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U54	Thank you very much. First of all, the fact that there are not enough doses of vaccine is true. It's not enough. With this, I think that no Member State of the European Union is satisfied today. The original contracts, which were made, were concluded for a completely different volume. It is true that Pfizer is currently the most active player in the market, which is the one that has made the most of it. He has offered additional orders or additional contracts. These are hundreds of millions of new doses and Estonia has also made its request. Now the theory that the corona doesn't exist. There is a corona, there is a disease, there is a COVID-19 disease, there is nothing to do. Maybe really, I don't know, at the beginning of March, we all hoped that this was just an interesting movie to be shown. But it's not a movie, it's a reality. And as a result of this reality, very many people have lost their lives. It has been very tragic for many families around the world. This is certainly very tragic also in Estonia, where people have lost their loved one because of COVID-19. We also know that this virus has caused great health problems for many people even after the disease has passed through. We see how economies have fallen, including the Estonian economy. True, our economy may not have fallen as much as it was in the spring of last year, but still our economy has been hit very hard. It's gonna take a lot of time to recover. If coronavir and COVID-19 didn't exist, we wouldn't have more than 55,000 unemployed people. It's a fact we have to live with today. A while ago, this indicator was, to say the least, half the size. So it's an absurd argument that if someone says there's no such thing as a disease. Secondly, you indicated that some say there is no point in vaccinating. Should we increase the percentage of people in Estonia who are willing to be vaccinated, voluntarily? I repeat, voluntarily. Volunteer! Yeah, I don't think you can be satisfied with that percentage, which is 60% at the moment. We should seriously think about this at the end of the first quarter and in the second quarter if we are sure that we have more doses. We should think about a larger, more massive information campaign across Estonia and invite people to vaccinate. Is it worth vaccinating or not? My personal opinion is that it makes sense to vaccinate. If, at one point, I have a chance at vaccination, I will certainly use it, but I say that I am not a frontline employee today, nor am I a frontline employee tomorrow. So I think it is right now to make vaccinations especially in medicine and nursing homes, from there on to teachers, internal security staff and then, of course, the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U55	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U56	The next questioner is Heidy Purga, answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister Jaak Aab! A few days ago, you briefly presented in the Committee on Culture the transitional plan prepared at the Ministry of Education and Research from January to August. This scheme mainly concerns the organisation of work in educational establishments. And here we can see a serious attitude on how to bring educational institutions out of times of crisis with as little damage as possible. This exit strategy mentions a variety of things, such as deciding on the conditions for graduating from the basic school and upper secondary school of the current academic year. This means carrying out the final exam-level work and comparing the results with those of previous years, i.e. identifying where we are and how much we have to make back. E-evaluations to assess the current level of students will also be addressed, i.e. where to go. The topic is also the development of upper secondary school entrance tests, e-interest school, e-gymnasium, piloting of e-elementary school. But the most significant in this list is 2021. preparation of the partial repetition of the curriculum in the academic year, i.e. the possibility of taking an additional year in the subjects. What exactly does that mean? Who will it extend to, and when will you start?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U58	Thank you for your question. Just as you mentioned, the Committee on Culture was briefly familiar with the activities that we did not see in the near future. In fact, we can say that since autumn, the Ministry of Education has planned activities that, although they may have been general activities in the budget and the action plan before, have been targeted according to the existing situation. The main activity has been to identify the gaps in the knowledge and quality of teaching of students due to the limitations of the COVID crisis. We can say that these gaps exist either way. The restrictions have been different, they have been different from school to school, and they have also differed from region to region. The main concern is how to get feedback as soon as possible. I praise schools. In fact, since autumn, schools have already mapped out gaps in spring and tried to level out these gaps, both individually and by group, with their own actions and resources. But it certainly isn't enough, we must definitely go to schools to help. We actually have the main activities of the exit strategy planned for three or four years. And I will be honest with you that the restrictions that have worked so far have certainly had an impact that will not be smoothed out in six months or a year. And as far as this particular additional year is concerned, very much depends on how we decide on the conditions for completing a specific school degree. There are some options proposed and I also told the Committee on Culture that they could be discussed next week. Perhaps there is also the possibility that the Committee on Culture will initiate a corresponding draft. Our proposal is that we discuss it. It's not an exact science. We are getting more and more information today every day, and we are drawing conclusions from the restrictions that are still in force and which may be prolonged. The information is constantly being developed, and the information on which these decisions are to be taken is being improved. I hope that the Riigikogu will seriously consider the conditions for ending the spring, the conditions for calculating the exams. This extra year is meant to be about that if we detect gaps, whether based on proficiency tests or tests or examinations, then we will still be given the opportunity to complete this step and move on. And perhaps with the agreement of the child and the parent, the child will be given the opportunity to receive further training next year to smooth out the gaps in certain subjects. In general, it's meant to be this way, and we don't have any details. But in this direction, we would like to act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U59	Heidy Purga, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U60	Thank you very much, Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My second question concerns the information letter from the Ministry of Education and Research, which was forwarded to the schools last Friday, 8 January at 19.14 a.m. And there are clear contradictions in the organisation of teaching, the rights of school leaders and school managers are severely restricted and no responsibility is taken. It's a quote from a conversation with a schoolmaster. And so have several other school leaders with whom I have spoken. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U61	Thank you for your question. I have apologized, and I am still sorry, that really decisions and their interpretations, guidelines and conditions, which are very detailed, unfortunately, will arrive relatively late after decision-making and restrictions have been imposed. But, for example, last week, it was actually this official decision that the government order was formalized on Friday. And before that, it was very difficult for us to give the instructions we didn't have clear to the last letter what the government had to say about restrictions. We have prepared and are ready to complete these instructions. That's exactly what we did now. As regards, in general, the limitations of the rights of the schoolkeeper and the rights of the school administration, unfortunately, there is a crisis in COVID and it dictates certain rules. While we have softened our attitude, we have said that a general and clear recommendation was to restore contact learning from 11 January. We didn't do it out of our own wisdom, but the scientific council recommended it. The scientific council does not only take into account the epidemiological situation, and so does the government. We must also take into account what these restrictions entail. We were just talking about an exit strategy. I can start reading certain numbers here. Our students' knowledge is very difficult to estimate, but the amount of money we have to contribute to get out of it is quite large, to be honest. So we're seriously considering everything. We do not make these restrictions on the basis of any very easy choice. These restrictions have a price, we know that. We always know that. Rather, after the break, the scheme is such that the schoolgirl can assess the situation. We have told you not to send children to distance school lightly. Tartu tried a certain mixed option, but as far as I know, they are going to full contact training from Monday. The epidemiological situation is that infection rates in Tartu County tend to go down. It's not that bad. At the same time, the Scientific Advisory Panel says that it is difficult, very difficult to predict about these indicators. They have also said that if we relax or want to open something, they should be educational establishments first and foremost. We should rather endure restrictions in other areas, but education could suffer the least because it has a very long-term impact and damage can often be irreparable. That's the reason why so much is written in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U62	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U63	Thank you very much. As you said, really, every restriction has a price. The cost of sending schools to distance education is a decline in mental health indicators for children and young people, which we have seen from research, as well as knowledge gaps, as you said in your reply. But I ask what is the cost of closing down educational establishments and switching to distance learning in financial terms. Can you point out the financial dimension? And how to compensate schools for the clearly higher workload of teachers, the whole change in school arrangements? Are there plans to pay extra fees to teachers, for example, to invest in better ventilation in school buildings or to take real steps to ensure that schools can do better in this difficult situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U64	Thank you! Yeah, that topic's been on the table since autumn. We've been thinking about this pretty hard. We have charted these activities, we have also consulted schools, who know best where these gaps were created and how many of them were created. Yeah, it's got a price. I'm not ready to say these numbers, but they're pretty big. For example, in our own budget, the Ministry of Education and Research budget, about 8 million were planned for these activities operationally in the autumn. But it's far from covering everything. Where can the basic need for money arise? I don't want to go to the ventilation investments here, although this number is likely to be calculated. But if we're just talking about extra hours, it's an extra money to pay for extra work to those teachers who are in school or to hire more support specialists. Students who are often left behind are already students who need to be eliminated. I'm not talking about children with special educational needs. They have actually been able to learn in contact with teachers, but they have also been disturbed by this situation. But in any case, it is students who need different educational support or guidance that tend to be lagging behind and need to contribute. And we have calculated that there will be millions of euros to contribute in the coming years, not only this year, but also next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U65	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U66	The next questioner is Jaak Juske and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The situation in Estonia will change in minutes. I was actually wondering if I was even going to ask you a question today. At the same time, there is one question that, I think, needs an answer to which the entire Estonian people are actually waiting for an answer. Corruption is a very serious crime and you must be acknowledged that you have taken responsibility and resigned from the Prime Minister's office. However, in a strange way, you will continue as chairman of the Centre Party in a situation where the party you presided over is once again under investigation in criminal matters. When you applied for the chairmanship of the Centre Party in 2016, you promised your party supporters and, in fact, the entire Estonian people that the Centre Party, under your leadership, would turn its back on your corrupt past that you would pursue a new, honest policy. It was a very beautiful and noble promise. Today, more than four years later, it is clear that you have failed to fulfil that promise. If the Centre Party previously carried money from Tallinn's city budget in a corrupt way, today we can see that this grip has been further expanded and the money is already being carried out in a corrupt way from the Estonian state's budget. Mr. Prime Minister, how do you look at your supporters today, the Estonian people? How do you justify the fact that you have not actually been able to change the corrupt face of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U68	Honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Mr Jaak Juske! Can Jüri Ratas still be in Estonia, or do you wish to expel me? The Centre Party has changed a great deal in these four years. The Centre Party is on the right track, including with regard to corrupt financing schemes. What happened in the first hours of today's date is, I think, something completely new in Estonian politics. It would have been easy for me to say that the suspicion has been submitted to the party's secretary-general and the Estonian Central Party to the NGO. It has been said that Jüri Ratas, either as Prime Minister or Chairman of a party or as an individual, has nothing to do with this suspicion. I could have said we'd wait for what happened, wait for the charges, we'd have a presumption of innocence, we'd wait for the court settlements, and so on. I didn't do it. I chose another way. I took political responsibility. And I think it shows once again that my words are not about naked air, but about real action. We're on our way in the right direction. Yeah, it takes time. I can't say we've solved all the problems, but we're gonna keep doing this. This is a very clear change of pattern; it is a very clear political responsibility. You are right when you started your question by saying that there will be a great deal of change in Estonia in minutes. Of course, a lot changes in minutes. We've been under the influence of the corona virus all along the last 10 to 11 months. As Prime Minister, I've been working all these days with the government, along with the science council and the Health Board to solve the problems caused by the Coronavirus. I would certainly like to say a great deal of thanks here to both coalition partners, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Fatherland. Thank you very much to the Centre Party too! It's been a very hard job, a very big responsibility. We've done our best. How well we've done, that's for every person to decide. In Estonia, too, the fact that our unemployment is constantly rising in the wake of this health crisis, as a result of the economic crisis, also changes in minutes. We have contributed to this thanks to you, the Riigikogu, through the extra budget and next year's budget, and we would also like to contribute to this by re-launching the funds. Now your last hint that somehow the Centre Party has been financed at national level. That's a very strong accusation. That's a very strong accusation! I would very much like to know from you what you mean specifically. How has the Centre Party been financed in a corrupt way at national level? I don't know any such suspicions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U69	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U70	Thank you. Prime Minister! I wish you a very long life in politics, in Estonian politics! I say this very, very sincerely. At the same time, the fact is that you continue to be the chairman of the Centre Party, and the same fact is that the Estonian Central Party is again under investigation in connection with a corrupt criminal case. I hope that, as the leader of the party, you have been very familiar with your party's finances, financing schemes in recent years. Therefore, I ask: can you put your hand on the Bible and say that the former Secretary-General of the party, Mikhail Korb, is not involved in any of the more corrupt financing schemes that are the case of Porto Franco? Can you swear it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U71	First of all, thank you for your noble attitude that you still allow me to remain in politics. I understand that as a Social Democrat, you will not drive me away from Estonia. So thank you for that, Juske! Very, very noble of you! Now, if you want to talk so much about the Centre Party, I have always told the members of the Riigikogu of this chair that good people are always welcome to help. I believe that if you want to come and contribute to the activities of the Centre Party, then make a statement, select a region, and we will certainly consider your candidacy seriously. I dare advise you that you can make a great contribution to the success of the party. Yes, of course the Riigikogu is above the government according to my principle, even though we have separation of powers. I always consider it important that when the Riigikogu invites a member of the government to the Riigikogu, it must come. But swear, I don't know, the hand on the Bible maybe next you want to get three drops of blood from me or whatever else. Once again, as far as this case or case is concerned yesterday, suspicion has been brought before the former Secretary-General of the party, Mikhail Korb, and the legal person. If I'd been aware of that, I'd be in that doubt too. But I'm sure George Ratas isn't in this doubt. And I fully trust the Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office, the Defence Police, the police at all, both in the investigation of the Estonian Centre Party and in the investigation of all other political parties. As the chairman of the party, I say that we have taken on quite a lot of responsibility, rather a lot of political responsibility, very quickly, very specifically. The secretary-general resigned, the party chairman resigned as Prime Minister. We have said that we very much want open communication with the defence police and the prosecutor's office. We're ready for this. And I don't know there's more cases you asked about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U72	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U73	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! This morning's news was very worrying, I mean 855 positive tests and infected. If, in previous days, there may have been a feeling that we might be crossing the top and going back towards less positive results, then both the waste water studies and the number of positive tests raised a great new concern. On Monday, the Social Affairs Committee held a public hearing, where both the Minister and the Head of the Health Board were able to speak. At the same time, it is known that the issue of a letter of concern was also raised on Monday. It is a good thing that vaccinations were now also carried out in care facilities for both the elderly and those working there. The elderly who live there are certainly a very heavy burden on the health care system when they fall ill and need additional medical care. But as a result of either bad communication or use of words, the health department was charged with not following any order, not washing hands, or not knowing how to wash hands in nursing homes. In fact, it offended those who work in nursing homes for a few 24 hours in a row. And some even live in nursing homes to help these elderly people. We have over 20 nursing homes now, where there are infected people. How do you feel about this charge? I have been approached by several heads of nursing homes who are concerned that in this situation, where we need to stick together and deal with the eradication of the crisis caused by the kroon virus and support each other, they are being blamed. At the same time, the aid granted to them by the Government is highly recognised. But this use of words wronged a lot of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U74	Thank you for this question. Clearly, we have not broken the backbone of the second wave of COVID-19. There's no point in creating any illusions or sending nice positive messages. We have not been able to bring this virus up into decline. Yeah, you could say there may have been some stabilisation, but that's not enough. This ambition, I think, is too small. We also know that there are always higher numbers of tests and positive responses on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Then the picture's worse. It's always been that the slope is much higher in the second half of the week. Now, the truth is, if you look at a primarily waste water study... I would like to say, in between, that I am very pleased that this is another example, and I commend the fact that science has come into everyday life. And we'll see how much it helps. This is one positive thing during this COVID-19 crisis. The Sewage Survey shows, however, that there are, unfortunately, red spots across Estonia after last week, which was, if I am not mistaken, the 53rd week, now that the second week of this year has come to Estonia. This is a clear picture of what happened when people went on the move during the holidays. And now the question is whether the virus remained there or when people returned to Northern Estonia, for example, the virus came along. That's what we should get the last picture tomorrow morning. We should also thank scientists again tomorrow morning, Professor Ruth Kalda stands for this monitoring study! To get a cross-Estonian picture of what's really about to spread the virus. On this basis, it must be decided whether the following restrictions or reliefs will come. Now the question of nursing homes. What I want to say first is that those people who work for social welfare work in nursing homes work off their hats in front of all these people! Hats off in front of all these people! I completely agree with you. Knowing how difficult this work is, not only physically, but also mentally, but also, while it is important for those who are in nursing homes, for those who are close to people in nursing homes, I thank them very much. We've been trying a little to improve their income in recent years. It certainly hasn't been enough, but we've made a raise. Do I have any complaints about nursing homes? On the contrary! And we have said this in the government that if the COVID goes into the nursing home, we are willing to compensate for the labour costs and the cost of personal protective equipment. I mean, somewhere, I don't know, wear the mask right or disinfect the hands right, maybe everywhere. Surely this is not under any circumstances the pattern of nursing homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U75	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U76	The next questioner is Urmas Kruuse and is answered by Minister of the Environment Rain Epler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! It is no secret to anyone that there are enough inner lakes in Estonian cities, including Tallinn, Võru, Otepää, Elva. Little Elva even has several lakes. And that is why I am interested that, if funds are planned for the next budgetary perspective of the European Union, if anything is planned and if so, what amounts could be taken into account to monitor these lakes and to carry out studies to ensure that their condition does not deteriorate and that they are not subjected to a pollution attack.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U78	Thank you, dear questioner. First of all, I note that, given the questions you have raised here in recent days, which have embarrassed colleagues in the Riigikogu and have raised many questions in the public, and which, I very much hope, have also made you regret and a little embarrassed, you must now be acknowledged. On environmental issues, you have been able to ask a very constructive question. With regard to funding for the next period, the Ministry of the Environment has proposed that 4 million of cohesion policy funds be channelled from funding for the remediation of water bodies, including lakes. However, the decision as to how these funds will be distributed once and for all has not yet been made and, therefore, this number is not yet to be taken as final. I would also like to say that the European Commission also finances environmental projects through the LIFE programme, from which non-profit organisations and businesses can apply for support. However, the local government may also be the partner of the project. The recent recommendation is that local governments should contact the LIFE Programme's contact persons to keep this information up to date.The LIFE programme also has an Estonian-language website and also talk to the environmental project coordinators of the Environmental Investment Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U79	Thank you. You should press the button before you get the word. That's great! Urmas Kruuse, clarification question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U80	Thank you, good manager. Minister, do you really think that the numbers you have just said out loud are enough? In addition to research, money is also needed for the reconstruction of local governments. This actually means the question of whether they can apply for help in order to put money in the game for their part and also to receive money from the European Union or from the Estonian taxpayer's money. That's how we can do those reconstructions. Scientists have said that the exploration of lakes and the investments allocated to it are currently not balanced. If we monitor them, the topics and needs that are considered as monitoring results will often not be met. The jobs will remain incomplete, they will not be completed. This actually means that we will not achieve what scientists and professionals think is necessary. Can you tell me if everything is thought through enough to get that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U81	Yes, one of life's inevitable is that money is usually less than necessary. I tend to agree with you that there could really be more money for environmental programmes. On the other hand, it should be taken into account that the environment as a whole needs to be viewed in conjunction with other areas: social areas, education and so on. I think that much more could certainly be done to increase this funding. On the other hand, I would like to confirm that until now, I have discussed with my colleagues at the Ministry of the Environment's house a great deal about how to better convey the Ministry's message at the government table and how to strengthen our position in these negotiations. I believe that the first steps in this direction have been taken. I dare to look to the future optimistically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U82	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The current question concerns lakes, but you are also prepared to talk about forestry today. That's what the question was. I couldn't get on the line there, so I'm now asking about the Häädemees, more specifically, about cutting up forests in the Häädemeest with a heightened public interest. Much has also been said in this Chamber about the need to involve communities. On 14 September, RMK announced that on 15 September at 3 p.m., it would introduce logging plans on the front of a bus stop. Of course, local residents did not receive this invitation to include and noticed tractors in the forest when they went home in the dark. Do you consider such a situation reasonable and who should be responsible for such situations: Minister, is the RMK Council, is RMK's board of directors? And do you really believe that the problems between local communities and RMK will ever be resolved if they do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U84	Thank you. First of all, the organisation of meetings and invitations to meetings. The public is aware that on some specific areas or forests, I have also held a debate myself with communities and asked for clarification as to what went wrong in these involvements. However, I can say that I think that both sides may look in the mirror and ask themselves whether we really did everything in our power to have a meeting, or whether we did everything we could to make the other side look worse. It's kind of a tonality at times. Now from a specific area. On 30 July, a meeting invitation was sent concerning the surroundings of Treiman and Metsapool state forest and the Oandu-Ikla hiking trail. This invitation was sent to the municipality of Häädemeeste with a request to share this information on the website of the municipality as well as in the newspaper. In addition, information was placed on the website of RMK. On 19 August, a meeting invitation was sent regarding Jaagup and Krundiküla. The addressees were the same, and again there was a request for information to be distributed on these channels. When talking to people, it has occasionally turned out that it is believed that the local government is not our representative. In this context, for me, there are already big question marks that concern not only forestry but also how we organise this life in Estonia. That's one side. In short, the atmosphere has gotten hot. I understand that people are very emotional when they prepare for these meetings, and sometimes the focus disappears from what they really want to achieve. Do I believe this is somehow going to work out? I hope that if we look at Estonia more widely, there will be an approach to each other. Every time there's trouble, both sides have to think about how to do it better. In my opinion, there is, above all, a communication problem. And I would like to say at the end of this, that in very many places where the work has been carried out, there has not been a problem of prior agreement on the work, nor of later dissatisfaction with the result of the work. Perhaps the press likes to reflect more of those cases where there are negative emotions in the game than those where things have gone well.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U85	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U86	Next, Aivar Sõerd asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! There may be turbulence in politics, but life has to go on. We know that we are in a crisis situation and that many business sectors are in serious difficulties due to restrictions. Today there were occasional drivers with their buses on Toompea, but the branches that are suffering are very many. There is no such support package in the state budget this year as last year was made in the spring. And there is hope for those funds that last year remained unexploited in the order of 400 million in KredEx, which were as up as in KredEx and on which the government has decided on 8 December in principle that these measures will be extended to 2021. But on 31 December, these so-called 'corona loans' were put to a standstill. We had a debate yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the monitoring of supplementary budget measures, and the Ministry could not say exactly what the state of these funds was. Can you tell me when these sums transferred from last year could go into operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U88	Mr Sõerd, thank you very much. I guess it's true what you said. This whole situation is really very critical and we are experiencing a health crisis and an economic crisis. You're right. I understand that your question concerns KredEx. There have been different crisis mechanisms in KredEx. One such wide-ranging mechanism has been guarantees and crisis loans, which are less than 10 million, and there have also been nationally important projects for which we have supported. Examples include Tallink, Magnetic MRO and Alexela Varahaldus. Now there is an idea on the table that concerns it in the order of 400 million, as you said. As far as I know, there's a little bit more, 430 million, but the order of magnitude is correct. It is suggested that it would be reasonable to proceed first with smaller crisis loans and guarantees, to put funding on it. It is also the idea that an extraordinary working loan and an extraordinary investment loan should be made a single, say, aid, which could be an exceptional guarantee. The question is also whether we are going to continue or whether we are not going to continue to invest significantly in the country. In my opinion, this should, in any case, be discussed in the future. There are also some applications already inside, which are very strongly relevant to Estonia's regional policy, for example. In this crisis of COVID-19, I think it would be quite reasonable to consider the continuation of this support measure as well. Now your question is, when will this decision come? Like you said, 400 million. That's a lot of money. You know very well the political situation at the moment. The Government of the Republic of Estonia has resigned. I also passed this message on to the Riigikogu at the beginning of Question Time. At the same time, I also rely on what the Law of the Government of the Republic says. Paragraph 11 of the Act of the Government of the Republic states clearly about the powers of the resigned Government that the Government of the Republic will continue its activities until the new Government has taken office. However, paragraph 2 of this section states that, without the inevitable need, the Government of the renouncing Republic will refrain from making decisions in principle or increasing the cost of the state budget. So I think that this should be very much considered now, whether this government has a mandate to make decisions concerning KredEx, or whether it should be the new coalition and government that is being created.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U89	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U90	Thank you, Prime Minister, for this explanation. It became clearer. But I would still come to this day in connection with these support measures. Here's the news all the time. One of today's news concerns the development of Porto Franco, for which the state has also provided loans. The situation is that the EBRD has suspended the disbursement of the loan and essentially withdrawn from the loan agreement made last year. 63 million loan payments have been cancelled. But the state has already paid out of its loan through KredEx in December 10 million and on 6 January 9 million, or half. Now, if Porto Franco's development should stop, what about this part of the loan paid out by the state? And will the remaining part of the loan, about 20 million out of 40 million, be outstanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U91	Thank you. I think, especially in the light of yesterday's news and today's news, Porto Franco, who was given a really big loan, is by all means a very hot question. I really cannot give you a direct answer in this Question Time about the opportunities that have developed in a situation where, on the one hand, loans are no longer granted. What does the state have to do now? These contracts are still concluded between the developer or operator and KredEx. If it's okay with you, I'm asking you to be informed of the situation you've asked for. Right now, I don't have that information here on the spot. I think the right thing to do is get the correct answer from KredEx.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U92	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! This week's news was that the 4 million planned for tourism companies to modernise their business models were halved in EAS. The amount was reduced from 4 million to 2 million, and the competition for applying for this money ended in a few hours due to the end of the funds. What can you say to those tourist operators who prepared for a long time to get money out of this measure? Does the government intend to restore these resources or to offer the tourism sector any other means of surviving the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U94	Thank you for this question. First of all, we have also discussed the problems of the tourism sector with you. It's been your concern, it's been your heart, and I think it's quite right. The tourism sector has been hit very, very hard and is, in fact, still hit very hard. And not only because of what is happening elsewhere in Europe in connection with the COVID-19, but also because of the restrictions that we have imposed ourselves. If we take the tourism sector, for example, in Ida-Virumaa or Harjumaa, we have imposed a lot of restrictions on this sector, starting with restaurants and ending with hotels and spas. Above all, I think it is an internal tourism problem. But also making international trips out of Estonia is unspokenly difficult, in most cases actually impossible. What have we now done in the interests of the tourism sector? On Tuesday, we also discussed this and found that the Minister of Social Affairs, who is a member of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, could discuss these possibilities a little more in cooperation with the other partners of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, both with the representatives of the Confederation of Employers and with the representatives of the trade unions who are on the Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. In fact, we would be able to provide some higher amounts of support. I very much hope that these negotiations will continue this week and next week. But the 4 million that you mentioned and have been reduced is not the only measure that we have wanted to implement in the Government of the Republic in the interests of the tourism sector, thanks to the adoption of the budget in the Riigikogu. Today restrictions apply, for example, to entertainment in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa. That is where we have granted grants, I think I am not wrong in the magnitude, with the resources of the unemployment fund, I emphasise this, plus the Government of the Republic's support to the self-employed, about EUR 17 million. In addition, the tourism sector is always linked to activities of interest, which is actually part of the tourism sector. And we have supported the field of interest in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U95	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U96	The next questioner is Urve Tiidus, who is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U97	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Due to the objective health situation, children and young people studying in primary school and upper secondary school have been around ten months, with the exception of summer, in quite different situations across Estonia: part of the time in distance learning, part of the time in contact education, some shorter, some longer. And not everyone has had good opportunities and prerequisites for participating in online studies. Let us be honest, we did not need standards for this new kind of schoolwork before 2019. This problem cannot be taken very dramatically, because adapting to change is one way to prepare for better life. And I'm sure that's what this situation is about. Besides, teachers and families have been very excellent partners for learners in their new role. I still want to ask you this. While curricula, levels of teaching and learning conditions must ensure a level playing field for all school students, this spring exams or other summaries of the school year are achieved by recognising that it has been somewhat difficult to adhere to this principle. Let this be a sign of the increase in the popularity of private hours and additional learning. How does the Ministry of Education contribute to ensuring equal opportunities in the new situation? You have already dealt with this in one of the previous answers, but please take note of the three principles that the Ministry, in cooperation with the local authorities, is following.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U98	Thank you for your question. That's the same thing, yeah. But this is an important subject and I will try to give you the most comprehensive overview possible. First of all, some things have been done. In fact, we have had to develop distance learning, i.e. e-learning, on the move. Universities, schools, Ministry of Education and Research have dealt with this. Very much has been developed of the necessary materials, supplemented by an e-school bag that was actually in place before the corona. So we're good at something. I do not really appreciate and compare what our position is in terms of student knowledge and their gaps in relation to neighbouring countries and other European countries. But this feeling in schools and our experts still has that despite the difficulties of good parents, thanks to good schools and teachers, we have come out of it with gaps, but not with catastrophic gaps, as it might have been. But the difficult situation continues and we have an exit strategy. One basic solution is still an individual approach to the needs of students. First, we need to find out where these gaps are. That's what schools have been doing pretty seriously. The University of Tallinn has also carried out an analysis of one distance study both in the spring and now in the autumn. It has given more attention to the organisational side and has put forward proposals on how to do it better. We certainly need to assess these levels of knowledge in order to obtain substantive answers. As I mentioned, we actually need to make a decision about one thing in the near future. What are the conditions for the spring exams? We must try as much as possible to implement the various levels of level work. The Ministry of Education and Youth has recently worked hard on the entrance tests of upper secondary schools and helped upper secondary schools with this. However, these tests have also been harmonised. All feedback is essential to target these activities. I think it is still necessary to have a very individual approach both in this academic year until the end of the academic year and in the next academic years. I spoke before a little bit about this extra year, during which the results of a school graduation may be assessed and maybe fill gaps in some subjects. It all needs resources, resources. The proposal of the Ministry of Education and Research is certainly to provide this additional resource to local governments and school holders.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U99	Thank you. Since our time is running out, I would like to ask you very briefly, in a minute, to ask a question and also to give the answer very briefly. Urve Tiidus, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U100	Thank you very much for your answer. Understood. But has it already been assessed how much additional resources would be needed? And is it mainly from the state budget, or is there a burden on the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U101	As regards the activities of the Ministry of Education and Research, there are levels of work, tests, receiving its feedback, various refresher courses aimed at teachers and school leaders, and broadening skills learning. We have already planned nearly EUR 8 million from our budget for these activities this year. But it certainly isn't enough money, I dare say that here. And I guess we'll have to negotiate with the local authorities how to proceed if there's an opportunity for additional resources. We know that many sectors have been hit. And I guess this is a political decision-making place. It is necessary to decide how these resources can be shared, whether additional resources can be allocated already this year or whether they will be transferred to the topic of the Spring RES and budget negotiations. But this is certainly one of the issues in the negotiations with local authorities. We need to come up with a common vision of what resource we can do a great deal to help. And we do not only have local government schools, we also have public schools and private schools. All of them must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U102	Thank you. As sorry as I am, it's already so late that we won't be able to open a new theme circle in two or a half minutes. I am going to finish this question and, at the same time, I am going to finish Question Time. I thank everyone, both respondents and questioners. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U103	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the first working week Wednesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on requests for information and drafts? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Yes, Andrei Korobeinik, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U104	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I propose to exclude the first and only item from today's agenda: the draft decision on the organisation of a public vote on the concept of marriage. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U105	Thank you. Imre Sooäär, please, procedural question! [[Call in the hall.]] It's okay, it's a chance we have. Imre Sooääre has a wish to hand over the bill. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U106	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As an initiative of the members of the cross-party Riigikogu, I hand over the draft law amending the family law. The family is so personal and so sacred for all of us that the state cannot dictate which family is right and what is wrong. The Constitution protects all families equally, whether happy or broken, traditional or modern, families of Estonians or other ethnic [people], of the same or different sexes, of redheads or left-handeds. This bill is written on litmus paper. Between the lines there are words written with milk that do not suffer from legal printing. These words hold together all our families, regardless of their family model. They are caring for one another, trust, hope, and love. I sincerely hope that whoever unites their forces in order to move Estonia from the point we have reached from the singularity to the end of this law. Albert Einstein wrote a hundred years ago about time space and relativity. In the last letter of his life to his daughter, he wrote: "Dear daughter! After everything I've written and discovered, I've found that love conquers everything and can overcome everything because love is the driving force of all life and the universe. Albert Einstein. " I ask you to support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U107	Siim Pohlak, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U108	Basically, yes. Thank you, Mr President. The EKRE Group does not support the Centre Party's proposal to vote the first item on the agenda, I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U109	Okay, thanks. You have come a little ahead of the course of events, but we all understand in the same way that the proposal of the Centre Party to exclude today's only item on the agenda was not supported, and that is why it will remain on today's agenda in accordance with the Home and Working Rules Act. Honourable Riigikogu! I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu and the management board of the Riigikogu processes it in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U110	96 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 5. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to today's item on the agenda, we need to have two votes on the decisions of the Riigikogu's management board. I will also brief you briefly before the vote on the situation, so that you are all informed and understand in the same way what we are going to vote on. At its meeting yesterday, the Riigikogu Board discussed protests received from members of the Riigikogu regarding the procedure of 288 proceedings in the Constitutional Committee on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the organisation of a public vote on the concept of marriage. As the protests were largely overlapping and all concerned the organisation of the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Bureau decided to deal with them as a whole. Some protests addressed to both the Bureau and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have also been discussed by the Commission at its meeting on 10 January, rejecting them all. Later on, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has promised to discuss the future. President of the Riigikogu Henn Põlluaas and Vice-Chairman Helir-Valdor Seeder proposed the following decisions of the Executive Board on the basis of § 13 (2) 21 of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act. First, to reject the protests received by the Riigikogu on 288 proceedings concerning the Riigikogu decision "Organisation of a referendum on the concept of marriage" as a whole. In view of the very wide right of self-regulation of committees, the Constitutional Committee has acted within the framework of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act to ensure its ability to work. Secondly, the Board of the Riigikogu accepts the obstruction as a means of opposition to the parliament, which demonstrates its reluctance to the decision of a majority of the parliament. However, the obstruction of Parliament's work must remain within the limits of dignity. The presentation of thousands of amendments, most of which are against the Constitution, insulting, damaging Estonia's security and undermining Estonia's international reputation, does not serve the interests of democracy, but lowers the reputation of the Riigikogu and discredits the functioning of the democratic state as a whole. The Board of the Riigikogu condemns such proposals and calls on Members to refrain from submitting them in the future. As a result of the Constitution, the functioning of the parliament must be guaranteed in all circumstances and the obstruction must not lead to the stopping of the daily legislative work of the Riigikogu. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu Siim Kallas disagreed and did not support these decisions. As the board did not reach consensus, Siim Kallas, member of the board, wishes to put these decisions to the vote on the basis of § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. Since this is two different decisions, we must also have two votes. I will first read to you the text of the first decision and then vote on whether you are in favour of adopting the Bureau's decision in this way. We will then repeat the same with the text of the second decision. Was it understood to the members of the Riigikogu that two different management decisions, which did not receive consensual support, were to be voted in the large Chamber? Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I didn't understand. In the first half of what you read, as regards the protest of the members of the Riigikogu against the offences committed in the committee, the views of you and Mr Põllea were understandable to me, although I do not agree with them. And indeed, in this case, it can still be said that the Riigikogu decides to reject these protests or that the board had to decide whether to resolve them in substance or reject them, and if consensus is not reached, they will be brought here to the majority vote. But it is deeply incomprehensible what a statement by the Riigikogu's board of directors is, on which the Bureau cannot agree. I do not see the application of the Riigikogu Board as a form of work in the Rules of Procedure and Home Act of the Riigikogu. If the members of the Riigikogu Helir-Valdor Seeder and Henn Põljaas want to say something, you have the right to do so both individually and together, without doubt, on the basis of the principle of a free mandate. But the statement of the Riigikogu's board, which was not agreed and which should then be approved by the majority of the assembly, is also essentially a complete nonsense. Can you explain your thought?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U112	Thank you. I don't understand what kind of statement you're talking about. Two decisions of the Riigikogu will be put to the vote and no statements of the Board of the Riigikogu. The decision of the Riigikogu Board, sorry, not the statement of the Riigikogu Board. Two decisions I read. I have read the second decision, and I can read it again before the vote when we put it to the vote. I'm going to read it out in full, of course, just as I'm going to. Both decisions of the Riigikogu [the governing board] have been formulated as I have read to you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U113	Thank you, good manager. I must say that it is still confusing whether there is a competitive vote and what depends on the outcome of this vote. If one or the other of your texts is supported in the Riigikogu Hall, what will follow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U114	The Riigikogu takes a decision on both decisions by a simple majority. How? [[The room will be explained.]] The Riigikogu takes decisions, i.e. the decisions taken by the Riigikogu in a nonconsensual manner are confirmed by a simple majority in the large hall. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U115	However, if I correctly understood what you said, two Bureau members would like to express their views on a specific draft procedure, 288 in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. An opinion in the context of whether it could be assessed whether these amendments were relevant or not, whether they were made with a view to improving the legislative situation or whether they were designed to draw attention to some general policy issues. Undoubtedly, members of the Riigikogu have the right to express their views, to accept all kinds of statements in isolation and as a whole. But what is this place of decision? After all, it is possible to decide the things that have been decided by the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Whether one or the other amendment is sensible, pleasant, purposeful, as far as I am aware, the Rules of Procedure have not given the Bureau such competence to assess whether the amendments are pleasing or appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U116	Thank you. I can assure you that both decisions are in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, and the wording of the Riigikogu Board's decisions is not exactly regulated by the Home and Working Procedures Act. The Board of the Riigikogu has also taken recommended decisions in the past, given guidance to committees and the work of the Riigikogu, most recently also for the conduct of remote sessions. So these decisions are taken in very different forms and both of these decisions are in full compliance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U117	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that you are putting the decision of the Riigikogu's management board to vote before the Grand Chamber, proposing to reject the protests. If this was the decision of your board, which a member of the board did not agree with, then it logically follows that if the large hall does not agree with such a decision of the board, this means that these protests will be granted. Consequently, if these protests are satisfied, we will not be able to discuss today's first item on the agenda. Is your reasoning similar to my reasoning?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U118	No, it's not. If today's large hall does not support these decisions, the Bureau has not taken a decision at all and the Bureau will have to discuss these protests again. But that doesn't mean the board has satisfied those protests. This is certainly not the way to interpret the result of the vote. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U119	Good manager! It's still very confusing. And it is very difficult to understand the consequences of voting on these decisions in one case or another. If you say that the vote in the large Chamber, if now this text of yours is rejected, means nothing more than that the Bureau has to discuss again, how can the reverse vote have a completely different outcome? Firstly, still, what exactly are we voting on and what is the result of one vote or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U120	Thank you. I'm trying to explain. The laws may be very complicated, but this vote is, as usual, simple. If one decision is voted in favour and receives [more] votes in favour, that decision has been adopted in favour, and if the decision which I put to the vote does not receive [sufficient] votes in favour, it has not been adopted and that decision has not been adopted. The same two Bureau decisions that I put to the vote, I'm still talking about these decisions, nothing else. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U121	Thank you very much. I understand the board has rejected all protests. I'd like to ask you directly. § 100 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu makes it quite clear to me that the author of the amendment must be able to explain his proposal in the committee. How do you interpret that? Is there an opportunity to overlook, or for what reason did the Bureau reject protests on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U122	The Bureau considered quite carefully what was going on in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as the possibilities of introducing amendments as well as binding the voting process and the various amendments, and two persons felt that this activity was in line with the Home and Working Procedures Act. The third member felt that this was not the case, he exercised his right to disagree, and that is why we are in this large Chamber today so that we can all decide together through a vote. It comes from the house and the rules of procedure. But I can assure you that the Bureau discussed in essence all these protests. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Before today's meeting, 17 minutes ago, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs convened an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And in this session, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed a similar proposal, which was now proposed by the Centre Party Group, so that this item 1 is not discussed today. Since protests are directly related to agenda item 1, the Commission has taken a consensual decision that today on this agenda... Okay, Mr. Hepner will explain and I will explain what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Since, according to the Home and Working Rules Act, it is not possible to remove the item from the agenda if the large Chamber of the Riigikogu has approved the agenda, there are two legal ways of not discussing the item on the agenda, which was the will of the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee. One legal way is that the representative of the Commission, in this case the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, does not have to report it, or it is impossible to report it. And the second is that the initiators will withdraw this bill. Since the protests are directly linked to this, and since I see the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, however, preparing for the presentation of this point and the EHRE disagreed with the withdrawal of this point, I am embarrassed, which we are now voting on and which is the result. Because, as I said, protests were directly related to the violation of the rights of members of the Riigikogu. I would also like to hear your opinion on how, as the head of your Riigikogu, you will see a situation at the moment where the Committee on Constitutional Affairs consensually noted that the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not coming to report this draft, but now we still have this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U124	Thank you. There were now a number of questions together. First of all, I would like to reiterate and, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call for no discussion of the content of these protests now in this large Chamber, because this has been done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it has been done on the Board of the Riigikogu, and the competence of the Grand Chamber today is the decision of the Bureau either to confirm or not to confirm. And that's what we're voting on. So I ask you to be constructive and let's get this vote done. We're all free to express our opinion. As far as the rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is concerned, neither the Bureau nor I have received any proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the agenda. We have heard the proposal made by a member of the Centre Party, Mr Korobenik, but one of the political groups in the Riigikogu did not agree with this proposal, and this item will then remain on the agenda in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. If the rapporteur comes to the speaker's desk and a debate on this item is possible, then it will take place. As manager, there's nothing I can do to stop it. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U125	Thank you, Mr President. I think that by remaining constructive and making decisions like this, everyone in this Chamber agrees. Our practice, as well as the procedure, requires that we still make conscious and reasoned decisions. By saying that we should simply vote on these board decisions, I cannot agree in any way. I think that if we are going to vote on these Bureau decisions, we should discuss and understand what the Bureau's arguments are for such decisions. And we are certainly interested in the substance of how the board came to such decisions. I now have a question for you: whenever we discuss something in this Chamber, we also have materials in physical form in addition to those available electronically. I would like to see all these materials, along with protests, I would like them in writing [on paper] and I think there are a lot of people in this Chamber who want to receive them in writing [on paper]. In addition, I would like the Bureau's decisions on [paper] in writing, along with an argument as to why the Bureau felt otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U126	Thank you. Well, for discussion before the vote, you'll be able to take a 10-minute break, that's the chance you have. As far as the availability of Bureau decisions is concerned, as far as I know, the Rules of Procedure do not regulate that they should be available on paper in this Chamber at the moment. But the decisions of the management board are not secret, they are all available to members of the Riigikogu in an electronic manner, so of course every member of the Riigikogu can get acquainted with them. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U127	I had the same concern that I would like to see the decisions of the management board in writing, especially this second decision, because reading before me gave the impression that it was still a recommendation to restrict the rights granted to a member of the Riigikogu in the Law on Home and Working Procedures, at least. It's starting to feel like the board wants to put a little hat on us with the hands of the big hall. That we take action and vote to restrict our rights in this way over our feet. It's a bit suspicious. Why don't you just file a legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U128	Thank you. I can reassure you that your feeling is deceiving you. No, everything is correct and I have been informed that all the minutes of the Board are available to all members of the Riigikogu. It is possible to read them and have been familiar with them. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U129	Thank you, Mr President. I would call on you to take this matter off the agenda now, because indeed, the situation with regard to these offences in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is pretty sharp, as you know very well, this is reflected in the same number of protests. As an experienced member of the Riigikogu, you understand exactly as I do that the provision of the law has been violated. It is undoubtedly possible to argue, as you have argued, that it is for some greater benefit and, consequently, it is proportionate and justified, but these are, in fact, very fundamental disputes on which it is important to reach a comprehensive agreement and compromise for the long-term functioning of the Riigikogu. You now want to get there with a majority vote to travel once again in this large Chamber, using the right of the President of your sitting, from the minority and also from the minority's interpretation of the Riigikogu's law on home and working procedures. And this, I think, will not add constructiveness to this Chamber in the future and will actually set a dangerous precedent. In the same way, a majority can vote that all amendments not related to the coalition agreement are immediately discarded. The board won't come to an agreement, the big hall will vote. Actually, that's not normal. And if you go on with this now, you will certainly provoke a quite large and wide-ranging debate here on this subject, in which I, for example, consider it necessary to express a protest against all the violations that took place during the 10 hours when I personally participated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the meeting where you were not present. Perhaps, given the political situation, it has also become more constructive today to take this issue down and come back to it later, also using the non-formal channels that exist in the work of the Riigikogu's board of directors, such as the Council of Elders, etc., and to try to reach a comprehensive agreement on these issues. But not to create a dangerous precedent where the majority of the votes are simply run over a minority.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U130	Thank you. As regards the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu and the gathering of parents to solve possible problems or to organise the work of the Riigikogu, it is certainly possible. It is customary for the President of the Riigikogu to decide when he calls it together. This has happened before, so maybe there's a need. But this is the competence of the President of the Riigikogu and this has been the practice, I think we will stick to that. But there's nothing I can do about your proposal, because then I'm gonna get on a slippery road myself. As a result of the Home and Working Procedures Act, I have an obligation to put this [decision] to the vote in today's sitting in the large Chamber, because the Bureau did not reach consensus and I do not want to break the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure here. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U131	Thank you, Mr President. You have a duty to put [decisions] to the vote, but you have not fulfilled another obligation to have access to these papers. When it comes to the agenda of the sitting, it is also on the Riigikogu's website, and the same drafts, but they are also available on paper. My request is: please allow the members of the Riigikogu to get acquainted with these materials on paper. I would add that we may not have known that such a decision would come, and this decision could have been sent to the members of the Riigikogu by e-mail or somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U132	Thank you. There were thousands of amendments, more than 9000, and members of the Riigikogu expressed the opinion that they did not have to be made available in the paperroom. In my opinion, it was reasonable to save Estonian nature, to be economical, and it was also practical as an e-state we have already used electronic means for a long time. Most members of the Riigikogu are able to receive these materials via electronic channels and it is possible to read them during the current debate. They're not very voluminous. While I have a suggestion that we remain constructive, let us not force officials to take a break to reproduce on paper the same materials that you can read on your computer and which are available to all members of the Riigikogu in an electronic system. It is not practical and it does not make sense. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U133	Thank you, Mr President. I still don't get it. There is a draft 288 on our agenda today, which I am very thoroughly prepared for. There is no confirmation or rejection of the Bureau's decisions on the agenda. This means that I personally, as a member of the Riigikogu, was not prepared at all. Now I come to this Chamber and you offer me to vote in favour of or against the Bureau's decisions in oral reading. Please explain to me on the basis of which I should now form a position. You suggest that during this discussion, search the computer and read. I may even agree not to demand on paper, but as a member of the Riigikogu, in order to shape a position and vote, there should be an opportunity to get acquainted with all the materials involved. That is why I would like time for this and that you show me specifically these places in the EMS or on the website or wherever I can get to know the protests or the Bureau minutes about it. And it takes time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U134	The Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that, once the [meeting] of the Executive Board has taken place, we will put these [decisions] to the vote at the next meeting. So it's been possible to get to know the materials. Most of the protests have also been discussed, or all those that came to the Bureau, of course, were discussed in advance in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Each political group has a representative of its group in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs through whom it has been possible to get acquainted with these protests for a very long time. All political groups have representatives in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who were present at the representation of these protests and also at their debates. So this should have been an opportunity and all political groups should have had access to these materials in the past. Perhaps it would be necessary to communicate more often with your groupmates and within the group to obtain the information that a representative of one or another group in the committee found out to adequately pass it on. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U135	Thank you. At the Sunday session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I attended as a representative of the group, and I must say that there was no information passed on that on the upcoming Wednesday the large hall would vote on decisions that had not received consensus in the Bureau. So I think it is quite appropriate for the Bureau to inform the political groups who do not have a member on the Board of the Riigikogu if they are to put these matters to the vote in the large Chamber on an off-the- agenda, quite correctly, especially if they are very important in nature and may also have the significance of a precedent. Now, my question concerns your claim that you must put it to the vote, because otherwise you will go against the agenda. The second sentence of Paragraph 16 (4) of the Home and Working Rules Act states: "If there is no consensus... "The third sentence, sorry: "If consensus is not reached, a member of the Board of the Riigikogu may put the matter to a vote outside the agenda at the Riigikogu meeting. " Can you tell me which member of the board called for this vote in this sitting? Perhaps this board member is willing to withdraw this request and we can, however, constructively resolve this matter, not with the majority crossing the minority?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U136	Thank you for your question. I can answer that. This board member was Siim Kallas. He did not vote in favour of these decisions at the Bureau meeting, he demanded that they be voted in today's session and he has not abandoned his request. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. When I spoke before about the rules of procedure, I wanted to say that we would actually like the Bureau's decision, which we have to vote on now, on paper. Because I have never seen it before, and I think that most members of the Riigikogu have not been familiar with it; this opportunity has simply not been given. I'd like to see what it says.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U138	I understand you want the same material that I read to you because I read the text of the decision on paper? It is not enough that I read it out and that it has been available electronically. You're gonna want to get it on paper. [[Something's been said about the hall.]] Got it. Then I have a request that our technical staff prepare these materials on paper so that all members of the Riigikogu can get acquainted on paper with the materials of the respective meetings of the Board. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U139	Thank you! I have the same question to go on. You claimed that the decisions of the board are available electronically in our electronic information system. Would you explain to us when and in what form the Board has informed members of the Riigikogu that these decisions are available electronically? That you've even informed me about anything? Should we come up with this by ourselves, we should constantly follow the website, has the board suddenly decided anything in the meantime? How do you think this should go to the regular Riigikogu working routine?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U140	This is according to the usual routine: if the EMS is hung up, they will be available to all members of the Riigikogu from this moment on and there will be no separate notification. As a rule, this is the case with all other materials. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U141	Thank you. I wanted to say that the middle group will understand if you read the [decisions] out, and we do not need these proposals on our paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U142	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U143	Thank you, President of the sitting. I have this decision of yours digitally ahead of me, and I'm reading it, and it really is literally what you read. My question is substantive to you because I am reading the minutes and it is not possible to read the content of the debate that was in the Bureau from this protocol. Very briefly, briefly. Last week the Committee on Constitutional Affairs held a meeting on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. On Thursday, a number of our colleagues were invited to present their amendments. Information and time were sent in advance. There was no debate at that time. On Friday, less than 24 hours earlier, information about the debate and the time at which members of the Riigikogu were invited to this debate was sent again. On Friday there was such a picture that there was a virtual hearing, but the members of the Riigikogu who were invited to attend were not allowed there, and this discussion was not held at the time indicated in the invitation. Also, there was no notice sent to the members of the Riigikogu that the timetable had changed or for some reason this discussion would take place later. Perhaps the situation was similar to the fact that you announce a sitting of the Riigikogu, I will be there, the doors of the hall are locked and no one will tell me what has changed, whether the place has changed or the time has changed. And, in principle, the same repetition on Saturday, when the invitation came on Saturday morning with a few hours' notice, and then there was exactly the same thing that took place again three days earlier: there was no debate on the amendments at the prescribed time. Please be so kind as to explain how, then, I understand that you and Henn Põljaas have been in favour of this decision, and that it is in accordance with the law on domestic and working arrangements. Please explain to me how such arrangements can be in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. In my opinion, there is no guarantee that the MPs will be entitled to present their amendments if three times they are informed of the time and place when they will take place, and then none of these times will take place at that time and at that place in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U144	Thank you. I had a proposal not to go into the debate on basically all the protests that were quite a lot, and on the details of all the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that took place these days in the big Chamber. This is not a very fruitful activity. I can assure you that the Bureau discussed quite thoroughly and received a much more comprehensive overview of what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs than you were able to present in this short time. We discussed, considered and found that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, like the other committees, has a very broad right of self-regulation, and the chairman of the committee, when chairing the meeting of the committee, must ensure the operational capacity of the meeting, the capacity to process drafts, the ability to deal with amendments, and, in consultation with experts and officials, we have assessed that this has been sufficient. We have achieved a result that was not consensual, and today we are voting in the Chamber. As in the rule of law, members of the Riigikogu are able to make use of all their opportunities offered by the rule of law. We also have supervisors of the Riigikogu, is the Chancellor of Justice, is the Supreme Court, so you should not be afraid that the opposition will simply be run over, as you claim here. It's not like that. In fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also showed good will for all these more than 9,000 amendments, much of which were not substantive and constructive, in terms of discussion and voting. It would certainly not have been very reasonable to spend unreasonable time on them. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U145	I'll ask you again. Yes, I understand that the documents have been filed electronically. But our practice so far is that members of the Riigikogu, who have one way or another to deal with this document, and in this case, if we want to vote in the big hall, we all have a problem with it, are automatically informed that the document concerning them has been put up in the EMS. Would you tell me when and in what form this notification has been sent to members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U146	I think that, as I said earlier, I can also answer you now: it was put up in the EMS and from that moment it was available to all members of the Riigikogu and there has been no separate notification, just as it has been the case with the very many decisions of the Riigikogu Board. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U147	Thank you! The views of very many politicians throughout the Riigikogu have not been substantive or constructive, but I do not believe that this is a justification for the administration of the Riigikogu to begin to restrict the right of members of the Riigikogu to exercise their free mandate. In clarifying your position, you referred to the fact that the committees have a broad right of self-regulation. Indeed, they have a wide right of self-regulation, but still continue within the framework of the Constitution and the Law on Home and Working Procedures. Indeed, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed these protests very thoroughly, and I myself was one of the participants, but unfortunately, the chairman of the committee was unable to give a substantive answer to the violations of the rights of members of the Riigikogu that took place. He just put them to a dull vote, just like you want to put them to a vote today. This, I think, is not appropriate in any way, does not essentially solve this issue, does not promote parliamentaryism and does not solve this problem with dignity, as the Riigikogu Board should solve it. Your colleague, Mr Põljaas, spoke in this context about the need to stick the mouths of members of the Riigikogu. This is the context in which we are discussing these protests, Mr Seeder. Now, my question is that one part of these protests is a very important question of compliance with § 35 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, i.e. what rights the chairman of the committee has when he convenes an extraordinary committee meeting. They're really wide, he can do it at any time and anywhere. However, as the comments say, the chairman of the committee must ensure that all members of the Riigikogu have equal right and opportunity, a real opportunity to participate in this debate. Now, for various reasons, members of the various Riigikogu have protested against the fact that they were not granted this equal right to participate in the committee meeting. What is the Bureau's substantive response to these protests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U148	Thank you. The answer in substance is that, after a long discussion, the Bureau found, not by consensus, but by majority, that the activities of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were in accordance with the law on domestic and working procedures. And as provided for by the law of the house and the rules of procedure, this is not a debate in this big hall. There are no speeches, no amendments to these drafts, but a format in which the majority of the large chamber of the Riigikogu either confirms the decision of this board or does not approve it. And according to the laws of the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu also have the right to protest against the decisions of the Riigikogu Board. But this is also due to the Home and Working Procedures Act and other laws. There is this opportunity, too. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here the Social Democrats are worried that they could not and cannot present their amendments, and they are protesting, saying something about dignity and all that. I think the same amendments are one of the most unworthy things that has been done here in the Riigikogu throughout history, as well as this completely empty debate now, where the same is simply done. I call on my good colleagues to call it off. You have done enough damage to the Riigikogu's reputation, and I really wish we could move on to the agenda. Otherwise, it should be asked what are the amendments that you are most proud of and what you would most like to discuss and what the problems are. So once again, I propose that we proceed on the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U150	Thank you. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U151	Thank you. I'll make you a suggestion. Since we see here that both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and some part of the Management Board are quite rudely ignoring the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I propose, which may not be in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. Mr. Helir, talk to Mr. Hepner, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As you told us before, that you could communicate more with each other in the group, you too, good Helir, Mr Hepner. As a member of his Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can assure you that Mr Halfamets promised today that he would not go to the remote control, which I think he has said very much in the media, that this item will not be discussed today. I hope Mr. Half-Amets will keep his word. And therefore, ask for the opinion of the large Chamber through a vote. Can we vote on these board decisions, whether they are legitimate or not, before this bill actually comes to this Chamber for discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U152	[[Voices in the hall.]] Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U153	Thank you, President of the sitting. Of course what Siim Pohlak, a esteemed colleague, said here, calling these questions somehow... I don't remember the exact words, but I realized they're some kind of joke and a pointless thing that's been put in there. Well, I just look at my own questions once, they concern reducing regional inequalities in Estonia, the future of small schools, how they could survive, people's work and all these things, I do not think that such issues are important to the people of Estonia. But since they say so, I understand that you had some kind of position on the board, at least that's how I read it. You know, I'm now going to look at the Bureau minutes or the minutes of the sitting 3 of this year. I have protested and you want me to take a decision now without understanding what the Board of the Riigikogu was based on in reaching such a position. You don't have any references, no arguments. When we discussed this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you have referred to it, I would remind you that the majority of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of course, through the media, are of the opinion that the Constitutional Affairs Committee was grossly in breach of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. For example, this is what Andrei Korobenik has said. He has said yes, he voted in favour because the coalition roadroll as ordered, but he believes that the Rules of Procedure were violated. I would now be very interested in this: tell me the place where I can find out, because you say that you do not want to talk about content here, which arguments, which sections the Riigikogu Board relied on in shaping such a decision. After all, as a member of the Riigikogu, it is not possible for me to make a decision as if you were saying that you should vote like this. I'd like legal clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U154	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu discussed them thoroughly and the basis for our decision is also stated here. As regards protests and all possible comments, they can be obtained from board members, it is possible to receive them from officials who were also present at the Bureau meeting. So further explanations can be obtained. However, the protocol has been drawn up in exactly the form it is, and the rules of procedure and home procedures do not specify exactly how large or which details must be included in the protocol. This is the usual record of the Bureau meeting, which has been like this for years. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U155	Thank you. Since I have been directly accused here by opposition Jevgeni Ossinovski, as if I wanted to shut the mouths of members of the Riigikogu as if I had made such statements, I would like to stress that stop such a rude lie! I have never called for the mouths of members of the Riigikogu to be shut! It's a vile, disgusting, disgusting lie!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U156	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U157	Oh, Mr. Pier's getting excited about what he said! It is worth recalling the Monday session of the Riigikogu, where I asked Mr Põljaas about this in person, quoting the news of the ERR, whether the ERR had misunderstood his words in any way. I didn't hear any rejection of that claim at the time. So it must be concluded that the national broadcasting has correctly highlighted these words. It may be that a person gets ashamed of himself, but it doesn't disqualify his previous behavior. My question, Mr President, concerns the materials of this draft that have been put here for us today, and indeed it also relates to the protests that have been made. In accordance with § 102 (2) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, it must be possible to vote separately on amendments and this has not been done here today for this material. As a result, the committee has submitted material to the Riigikogu plenary which does not comply with the requirements of the law. If the material meeting the requirements of the Act has not been received by the Riigikogu by the deadline, this discussion cannot be held. Why has the President of the Riigikogu promised to place this item on the agenda, even though the documents do not comply with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U158	Thank you. Materials and documents fully comply with the law and were also available on time. The dispute over how they are bound has been one of the objects of protests, which has been debated. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done this, found it to be in accordance with the law of the Rules of Procedure and the law of the Rules of Procedure, and in the case of amendments to the draft law, the Riigikogu has done this in practice before; this is not a precedent. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has reached the same conclusion by a majority, so we can go calmly to the debate on today's agenda after voting on the decisions of the Board. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U159	Thank you, Mr President. I ask whether the Rules of Procedure also allow for such a situation that, if two out of three found one position and one position, it would also be represented and designed to be a suitable position for the social democrats to vote on. Because I understand that the opposition is broken at this point, and they are not suited to the signed proposal of Siim Kallas. Does the Rules of Procedure allow such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U160	No, the Rules of Procedure do not allow that possibility. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U161	Thank you. [I note] the draft decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, which is proposed to us here, on the second point. This is now a substantive remark, but with this text, the Riigikogu's board is trying to redefine the obstruction. You are saying here that the purpose of the obstruction is to demonstrate your reluctance to the decision of a majority in Parliament. On the Riigikogu website there is an explanation from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Obstruction, it clearly states that the Obstruction is a conscious and purposeful attempt to prevent the work of the parliament, and that is perfectly acceptable, and that is what the opposition is allowed to do within the law, using the rules of parliamentary debate, time possibilities. Parliamentary structures have a number of features: they are carried out almost always by a minority of Parliament, the obstruction of work is formally compatible with the Rules of Procedure, the delay and obstruction are consistent and are based on a specific objective, which is to postpone or prevent a vote from reaching a decision. This [the board's] decision, however, says something different. With this decision, I think you're out of the board's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U162	Thank you. No, I'm not. Obstruction is indeed possible and has been used in the work of the Riigikogu before. However, the existence of certain boundaries has also been referred to by the Supreme Court in its various decisions, most recently in the decision declaring the Act on Pension Reform. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U163	Thank you. You slipped over my last question somehow very comfortably. § 102 (2) states that the amendments are individually entered in the table of the amendment in order to ensure that a member of the Riigikogu has the right to vote on his amendment so that other members of the Riigikogu can also form a position in this regard. There is one very small exception that the Rules of Procedure really do allow, but it is not at this point. That the binding of such bundles, as you said, which are currently being proposed, is contrary to the provision of the law, was also confirmed by the Deputy Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, Mr Habicht, at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee. I mean, it's against the law, no one has any doubts. In theory, it can be argued whether the Supreme Court considers that there was a higher benefit than the fulfilment of the formal requirements of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Undoubtedly. However, the fact that such practice is contrary to the provision is a fact. Consequently, these materials brought to the Riigikogu are formally illegal. Why does the Head of the Riigikogu formally permit the processing of illegal material in the Riigikogu? In the future, then, can a completely arbitrary piece of paper, written on the 'List of Amendments', and you say that if the Commission thought it was like a list, it would be okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U164	You expressed your personal opinion. I also have a personal opinion that doesn't match yours. But I can also assure you that the Bureau discussed these same issues, and the Bureau is of the opinion that the materials submitted today for the item on the agenda are all in accordance with the law. So that is not the fact that there is a conflict with the law. Eduard Odines!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U165	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that, as a result of the current debate, we have two options: rejecting or accepting the two decisions proposed by the Bureau, which a member of the Bureau did not agree with. I understand that if we agree with them, we agree that protests were not satisfied and there was no basis for protests. But I do not understand what will happen if we reject the Bureau's proposals. I understand from your previous answers that these protests are going back to the board for review. This means that we still have the suspicion that there are grounds for protests and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with amendments illegally or in violation of the Home and Working Procedures Act. If today we have the suspicion that protests may have a basis and the Bureau will discuss these protests again, how can we today proceed with the draft decision and vote, take a position on this draft decision if we do not know whether this procedure was legal or not? Give me some advice, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U166	Thank you. You do not have two voting opportunities, but four: to be in favour, to oppose, to abstain and not to participate. As regards decisions of the Riigikogu's management board, which have not received consensus approval, decision-making in the large Chamber, if the large hall does not support it, these decisions do not receive a majority in the large Chamber, these decisions have not been taken and then, indeed, the Riigikogu Board decides what to do next. As regards possible protests and your ignorance or the ignorance of the members of the Riigikogu, protests on proceedings that have taken place in the past on committees can still be submitted now and can still be submitted after today, this time is not limited. So all possible protests may not even have been received for the debate on this item. But everything that is presented will be reviewed in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and decisions will be taken on everything, as prescribed by the law. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U167	Thank you! Point 2 of your proposed decision creates a very peculiar situation in which, as Mr Kross has indeed read out, the opposition has made every effort to take part in the parliamentary procedure on this draft. But most people have not liked it, for obvious reasons. In response, most have used an illegal way of overcoming legal obstruction, which they have once again liked, unlike legal obstructions that they have not liked. Now, you have arrived at a situation where, without taking an assessment or really forming a legal position on the violation of the rules of the rule of law on domestic and working procedures, you want to condemn legal action by the majority of the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, which you have agreed in the Chamber of the Coalition Council. I would point out that this is now a procedural question. You said that the Board of the Riigikogu has found that this binding of bundles is legal. I have been given an extract from Protocol 3 to the sitting by honourable servants, point three. I will read the third point in the last sentence that you have assessed the way the Committee on Constitutional Affairs worked. But my question was not about the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; it was about protests. My question is that it is not whether or not amendments can be voted in a large Chamber, it is not a question of the committee's own organisation, but is a question of whether the great hall of the Riigikogu, when doing its work, is based on the provisions of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. They have been clearly violated, and I do not see that decision at the moment. Could you explain what you meant by the decision taken by the Riigikogu Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U168	The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has taken two decisions that need to be approved in the large hall. They have not been adopted by consensus. The decision will be made once they are approved by the large hall. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U169	Thank you, Mr President. However, since I cannot get information from anywhere in order to shape my position in this Chamber on the decisions of the Riigikogu's Board of Directors that the Riigikogu Board could not make, maybe you could explain and introduce more closely this process and also the sections on which the Riigikogu Board found that the members of the Riigikogu who have proposed amendments should not be given the floor in the Constitutional Committee, although our law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure says that every member of the Riigikogu has the right to present their own amendments. It wasn't, I assure you. There are very many members of the Riigikogu who never got the floor, despite their desire to do so in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. They were always ready when the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had asked them to show up, it was difficult to find [these places], of course, or to be present. Please tell us which section and by which other 'arguments' or logics the Board of the Riigikogu argues that it was not illegal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U170	It's all in the record. The Commission has a very broad right of self-regulation and the chairman of the committee must guarantee the Commission's working capacity. And everyone was given the opportunity to present [their amendments]. Whether and how they took advantage of it, whether or not they appeared in time to present their drafts and proposals, that is a question of their own. But that opportunity was given to everyone. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U171	Thank you! However, the last part of my previous question was a specific question, not just a protesting position. You said that the two members of the Board of the Riigikogu have formed an official position that the list of amendments before us today in the large Chamber is legal and that it guarantees the right granted by the Act of the Members of the Riigikogu to vote on its amendments. I'm going to read these two points. In the first point, the Bureau proposes to take a position on the legality of the Commission's procedure, not on the large hall. The second point is, by its very nature, a statement, well, such a beautiful ideological statement as to which amendments are appropriate and which are not. Well, that doesn't ring a bell. However, no reference to the law and rights and the same list of amendments can be found in the second point. From which point could I look for the argumentary position of the Riigikogu Board regarding the execution of §102 (2) when processing this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U172	From the first paragraph of the decision, which states that the protests submitted are not to be accepted and that the work and activities of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were in accordance with the Law on Home and Working Procedures and that the amendments prepared by the Commission comply with the Rules of Procedure Act, according to the Bureau. We can therefore vote on fully legally prepared amendments in the large Chamber. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, if a member of the Riigikogu who had proposed an amendment, the Commission did not give the opportunity to introduce the amendment, that is a fact. If this [option] was not granted, it is a violation of the law if a member of the Riigikogu wished to do so. You say that Riigikogu committees have a broad definition of themselves or such a right that the committee can make decisions here and there. We have seen that under the leadership of the chairman of the committee, there has been a violation of the law. Does this broad right for the Commission mean that it can break the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U174	No, you can't break the law, and the board said there was no violation. The Bureau was given the opportunity to present its amendments, according to the information available. Whether everyone used it or not, it was already up to the author of the amendments. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U175	Thank you. Could you mention other cases in the history of the Riigikogu where amendments with different content from different performers have been grouped in this way into one amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U176	Well, I am not prepared for history here now, but I recall from my long-standing practice in the Riigikogu that the amendments of the various amendments were bound in the 2005 Finance Committee, so that they themselves did not consent. But no, they weren't exactly the same. But there were different performers. It is probably possible to find other cases of this kind in the history of the Riigikogu, but that does not mean that if we do not find exactly the same analogous case, this would make it illegal to bind this bundle in this case. So I have a suggestion: we will stick to today's agenda and to the procedural questions of today's sitting. It makes no sense for us to descend very deep into the history of Parliament's work. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U177	Thank you, Mr President. What is currently taking place in this Chamber under the name of procedural questions is a vivid snapshot of what took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where it was lamented that no word was given and no word could be spoken. Exactly the same pattern is happening here. It is simply procedural that a song is considered to be a song and questioners, in principle, all the same persons who also obstructed the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Lauri Läänemets began to read "Kalevipoeg" quotes and so on until the end of this session. So I have a proposal, Mr President of the sitting, perhaps you will be able to remove such obstacles to the functioning of the Riigikogu's work, because, at this moment, those who ask these questions are not asking procedural questions, but only exercising their right to speak, say, to delay this sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U178	Thank you. I agree with you, of course, but I will still give the floor for procedural questions, hoping that at some point we will finish these procedural questions and be able to move forward with today's agenda. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U179	Well, first of all, I am amazed that the expression'removal of persons' used by my colleague is supported by the President of the sitting. But my procedural question is as follows. I tabled an amendment concerning general health insurance, so that everyone in Estonia has health insurance. Lucky for me, I was able to introduce it to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As far as I know, there are ambassadors in the coalition parties supporting the proposal. How can they vote on the amendment I tabled in this Chamber now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U180	The great hall can take a stand. If he supports the cluster, then the debate will go back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and all this will be discussed in depth. There is also a certain analogy here with cluster laws, where several different laws have been bound together in a single cluster, the parliament has done so on a number of occasions, and a member of the Riigikogu has had the choice and opportunity, as it has. He may not support one bill in this bunch and support the other. But this opportunity to vote is what it is, and it has also been in accordance with the law. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U181	Thank you. In such a case, which is also a bad legislative practice, the Rules of Procedure comment that the second reading should be interrupted in order to enable Members to exercise their legislative power in full. There are, of course, still dubious practices and there are still a number of illegal procedures, such as the possibility of physically preventing people from coming to the Commission's hearing. Different ways may, of course, be invented, but this does not nullify the fact that this decision of the Constitutional Committee and the decision of the President of the Riigikogu to deal with this illegal material today are contrary to the Riigikogu's law on home and working procedures. Mr Grünthal is, of course, right that this is very similar to what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I argued with the paragraphs and the answer was that we have a majority, we don't care about the law. And that's what's going on right now. But to you, Mr President of the sitting, I respectfully say that it was the 2005 state budget procedure, which you are talking about, and it was in 2004. Indeed, these were amendments tabled by the Centre Party Group, with similar amendments being tabled both by the political groups and by all the members of the political group in order to multiply the number of amendments by 21. Then the Commission decided indeed to merge them and used it as the main argument that the right of any member of the Riigikogu to vote on his amendment is without prejudice to that. And that's a very fundamental difference between what's going on here and what's going on here. As Mr Sikkut said that today, with his decision to deal with it here, you restrict the right of a member of the Riigikogu to vote on his amendment. And history here is very important to remember, because you have proposed the creation of a precedent for the adoption of this decision today. For the future, you want to assess which amendments are appropriate and which are not appropriate, which should be condemned and which should be encouraged. My constructive proposal is to take this point out of there. Let us not make this decision today, given the political situation around this issue. It's obviously very politicised by the coalition, and that's why they're even willing to break the law. Solve these issues, which really are longer-lived than this government and probably longer-lived than the next government. However, they would be resolved in such a way that the rights of both the majority and the minority would continue to be adequately guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U182	Thank you. The law has not been broken. The precedent is not created today by voting on these Bureau decisions, but rather by tabling unprecedented amendments. Such amendments, indeed, have not been tabled previously in the history of the Estonian Parliament. This precedent has been established, but I have no right to withdraw today and to amend the decision of the board as it is presented here. As such, we must deal with it and vote on it. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U183	Thank you. First of all, to Mr Grünthal, he may not have noticed. I realized he didn't want the decision that the board has made or the protocol. Or, Kalle, if you've wanted to, look, read it. There has not been any argument as to what kind of protest and why not approve of what these arguments are. But I have a question. That is why we are asking these questions, because it is simply not possible to find out from anywhere else what the Board of the Riigikogu has based its decisions on. It's the only place we can do it, and of course we will. I'm still interested in the board's position. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the rape that was tried by law in that committee gave me 11 seconds to ask a question personally, ask a question from me and discuss one question. 11 seconds! You know, you can't even read a few questions in 11 seconds. But all right, with good practice, it's possible. Indrek Saar As Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, six and a half questions should have been asked in one second, answering questions about them at the same time, and the whole debate should also have taken place on six and a half questions within a second. I have a question. Am I right to understand that, with regard to the rules that the committee, of course, was trying to establish illegally, the Board of the Riigikogu, or at least the President of the sitting and Henn Põlluaas, are of the opinion that the formality, not the content, is important? In essence, it is not possible to report 6.5 questions per second. Do you think this is normal and not a violation of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U184	Both content and form are important, and the two thirds of the majority of the Riigikogu Board thought everything was correct. I've said it many times, and this protocol is in front of you today. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U185	Thank you. Question on the first point of the Bureau's decision. By voting in favour of this point, we do, in principle, decide that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs acted within the framework of the Home and Working Procedures Act, i.e. the Committee on Constitutional Affairs acted legally. This point in the decision is all the more surprising in the fact that, when I was present at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I had no doubt that all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs understood that they were not acting within the framework of the Law on Home and Working Procedures. They understood that they were breaking the law, but they agreed to do so because for them the Coalition Treaty and the referendum were more important. Do you think that the pain of conscience with which the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs broke the law was, in fact, in vain and mistaken members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who thought they broke the law, but for them the purpose was more important?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U186	The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has itself discussed protests and concluded that there has been no violation of the law. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U187	Good manager! I am also very frustrated, as colleagues from the Social Democrats should talk about content. Why can't we discuss substantive issues such as Mr Jaanson's proposal to switch to Gogodal at Estonian school, or Mr Laaneots' proposal to ban the killing of flies, or Mr Kerd's proposal to wear pink or purple socks, or Mr Keldo's proposal to eat barley in the afternoon, or Mr Kivimäe's proposal to marry a 13-year-old child? Why are we trying to avoid such important and substantive issues here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U188	The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed them all, so we have no reason to discuss them separately in the large Chamber. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U189	Thank you, Mr President. I think we've wasted an hour and 18 minutes on procedural questions here. I have such a proposal for you because, let us say, the sequence of these questions does not seem to end, to turn to 'procedural rules'. Anyone who asks, if he wishes to ask, specifically refers to the relevant section, paragraph and point of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, so that it is clear that this is a procedural issue, rather than repeating the reading of "Kalevipoeg" once again known in the Constitutional Committee. Of course, to my good colleague Lauri of the West Forest, I say so much that I don't think she should complain about having only 11 seconds to report there. Lauri Läänemets was one of the main waitresses whose speaking time was two hours and over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U190	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a serious request: we go to the agenda and stop asking procedural questions. They're already repeating each other. We're going to stall. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U191	... in this row of stupidity ask for something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U192	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now passed the stage of answering procedural questions. The President has answered them as well as he has, and we can go to the Bureau's vote. First, I will put the first decision to the vote. But before we go to this vote, I will also get the Chamber of the Riigikogu to work. [[Voices in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U193	Thank you, good manager. Since there was a great deal of procedural information here in an hour and 20 minutes, the Reform Party Group is asking for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U194	Ten minutes of recess, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U195	Ladies and gentlemen, We shall proceed to the sitting of the Riigikogu. The break taken by the Reform Party is over and we can go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the decision of the Riigikogu's management board to reject the protests received by the Riigikogu regarding the whole of the processing of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the organisation of a referendum on the concept of marriage. Given the very wide right of self-regulation of committees, the Constitutional Committee has acted within the framework of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act to ensure its ability to work. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U196	49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against. The decision has been taken. We can go to the vote on the decision of the second Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! I vote on the decision of the Riigikogu Board. The Board of the Riigikogu accepts the obstruction as a means of opposition to the parliament, which demonstrates its reluctance to the decision of a majority of the parliament, but the obstruction of the work of the parliament must remain within the limits of dignity. The presentation of thousands of amendments, most of which are against the Constitution, insulting, damaging Estonia's security and undermining Estonia's international reputation, does not serve the interests of democracy, but lowers the reputation of the Riigikogu and discredits the functioning of the democratic state as a whole. The Board of the Riigikogu deplores and condemns such proposals and calls on Members to refrain from submitting them in the future. As a result of the Constitution, the functioning of the parliament must be guaranteed in all circumstances and the obstruction must not lead to the stopping of the daily legislative work of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U197	41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 45 against. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U198	Well, we can go on. We can move on to today's agenda. Today's item is the second reading of the bill 288 of the Riigikogu's resolution on the organisation of a referendum on the concept of marriage submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Group of the Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Anti-Poland Forest!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U199	Honourable Riigikogu! I present the procedure between the first and second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the organisation of a public vote on the concept of marriage. The first reading of the draft act took place on 14 December 2020 and the first reading was closed. 9386 proposals were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 5.15 p.m. on 30 December. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading at a regular session and at five extraordinary sessions. A regular meeting of the Commission was held on 15 December and extraordinary meetings took place on 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 January. At its meeting on 15 December, the Commission decided to refer the draft to second reading at the plenary session on 11 January. At its meeting on 6 January, the Commission decided to amend its earlier decision and to send the draft to the plenary session for second reading on 13 January. At subsequent meetings, the Commission prepared and examined the amendments. As the number of proposals received was massive, the Commission decided, at its meeting on 6 January, that the amendments would be examined by performer and that each author would be given up to five minutes to present and answer all his proposals. For those who tabled more than 100 amendments, it was decided to allow seven minutes. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, it was decided to give 15 minutes to the author of the amendments. Later, the presentation period was extended by up to two minutes with questions and answers. In order to present the amendments, a timetable was drawn up which was sent to the proposers on 6 and 7 January by e-mail. In addition, the authors of the amendments were informed by sending messages to mobile phones. At the meeting of the Commission on 7 January, the authors of the amendments began to present their proposals and continued to do so at the meeting on 8 January. As the number of proposals was massive and the authors did not comply with the timetable for the presentation decided previously by the Commission, the Commission was unable to hear the presentations at its meeting on 7 and 8 January. A new timetable was sent by e-mail to those who had not been able to submit their proposals to the Commission, and they were also informed by telephone. The Commission continued to listen to the presentation of the proposals at its meeting on 9 January. At this meeting, we heard the explanations of one of the authors of the amendments, because the others either did not show up or left the session. At its meeting on 10 January, the Commission examined the protests of the presenters of the amendments and the members of the Commission concerning the organisation of the working of the meeting on 7 and 8 and 9 January. The Commission rejected the protests, which were essentially of two types. It was protested that the time for advance notice to come to the Commission meeting to present its proposals was too short. The Commission also rejected the protests, the content of which was that the time for presenting proposals was too short. The protests concerning other Commission working arrangements were also rejected. What amendments did the committee vote on? The Commission decided that it would vote on five amendments, four of which were from the Socialists. Or three? Yes, the fourth was from the representatives of the Reform Party and the fifth was bound by the proposals of the various performers. At its Sunday meeting, the Commission discussed the reasons why these proposals were linked together and which proposals were selected from a large number. The Commission considered that the selection and grouping of proposals should be based on, first, whether they are essentially related to the draft and whether they are based on the objective of the draft. Since the purpose of the draft is to hold a referendum on a question specifically set out in the draft text concerning the concept of marriage, the sex of the spouses in a narrower sense, the Commission considered that it was not justified to discuss whether the question proposed in the draft should be replaced by a completely different question not related to the concept of marriage, or whether it should include another question in the referendum. The amendments were found to have been tabled mainly for the purpose of obstruction. The Commission also took into account that the addition of the draft to new issues, which do not relate to the original issue, is to be seen as the initiation of a new draft. Also, in the opinion of the Commission, it did not make sense to deal with the amendments, which are in principle not related to the issue of the referendum proposed in the draft, to replace the question of the proposed referendum with another question, because it would not have added anything to the debate on the purpose of the draft. The Commission also considered that it should also be based on which proposals would not be unconstitutional and have a certain degree of adequacy. As we can see in this pile, there are also a lot of proposals relating to the word "marriage" in the form "Would marriage remain an alliance between Mari and Jüri?"'. These are not feasible and the substantive shortcomings of these amendments are so great that they cannot be remedied during the procedure. The Commission considered that if the performers wanted to hold a parliamentary debate on these issues, it would be more appropriate to initiate a separate new draft referendum decision. According to § 128 (1) (1) of the Rules of Procedure Act, each member of the Riigikogu has the right to initiate a referendum to adopt a draft law or decide on another matter of state life. The Commission considered that the massive number of amendments and the nature of their submission indicated that the proposed proposals were not intended to improve the draft. The Commission reiterated its view that these amendments had been tabled for the purpose of obstructing the adoption of this draft decision. The judgment of the Supreme Court's General Assembly of 20 October 2020 states, in essence, that the obstruction may overly impede the work of the parliament. Therefore, the obstruction must be beyond what is necessary for the functioning of Parliament. For these reasons, it was found that it would not be reasonable for the Commission to vote on these amendments one by one either in the committee or in the plenary session of the Riigikogu. This would not add anything to the parliamentary debate on a specific draft issue. However, the Commission decided to examine the draft proposal in a set of non-targeted proposals and to give the authors of the amendments the opportunity to explain their proposals in detail within the committee. The Commission was supported by the decision that the amendments proposed for the purpose of obstruction would be listed as a single proposal based on the systematic and teleological interpretation of the law, which in the specific case avoids the stopping of Parliament's work. This grouping was based on the principle of purpose, the right of the Parliament to organise itself, as well as the principle of the functionality of Parliament, because the Constitution requires that the legislator can function. The Constitution requires the functioning of the Riigikogu as a collegial body. For this reason, the proposals relating to the scope of the draft put to a separate vote are understandable and compatible with the Constitution, which are the four characteristics that met. And it was found that the legislator must be able to express its will on the remaining amendments by deciding whether to send them back to the Commission or to say 'no' to them in this Chamber and vote 'no'. The Chancellor of Justice has stated in his 2005 assessment of the processing of amendments to the state budget that, in addition to guaranteeing the material and procedural rights of individual members of the Riigikogu, the Rules of Procedure must be good for Parliament, as a collegial body and constitutional institution, to fulfil the functions assigned to it by the Constitution. According to the Chancellor of Justice, a situation should be ruled out where the work of the Riigikogu can be essentially stopped because of a legislative gap or procedural ambiguity. During the work of the committee, the chairman of the committee also explained what the Chancellor of Justice said about the binding nature of the referendum mentioned by Ülle Madise. If, in a referendum, the majority of voters answer the question of 'no', which is aimed at maintaining the situation so far, this would mean, in the light of the current wording of the question, that marriage does not have to remain a union between a man and a woman. This reply does not require the repeal of the specific provisions of the Family Law and does not require officials, judges and other public bodies to permit the marriage of persons of the same sex. The negative answer opens up the possibility to initiate an extension of the concept of marriage in the Family Act. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the second reading on 13 January, and that the second reading should be closed and the final vote carried out. To complement the process. This was firstly a huge technical work, because representatives of the Reform Party brought their materials on paper. In recognition of the staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, they were able in a very short time to formalise this extraordinarily large-scale material into such a document. The Commission's work on these amendments was unprecedented. I have the draft protocol here, and the protocol itself should come up with 100-150 pages. There are a lot of comments here about how the order is being violated. Lauri western forest alone, I called it 15 times in one session... [[There's something going on in the hall.]] Well done, thank you! Sixteen times! And that's because he didn't stick to the arrangements for the meeting and found that he could talk as much as he wanted. As a result, the other authors of the amendments lost their opportunity to present themselves. However, at least at this session, several Socialists were able to present the reasons for their amendments, and we also reached the performance of Indrek Saare, the biggest author of the package. And we continued this activity the next day at the online meeting. The online meeting was also completely anarchy. Some members of the Commission found that they could speak as much as they wanted, spoke loudly over everyone and did not give the floor to others. The next meeting was the most appropriate meeting, since it was not possible to talk about the other authors of the amendments. The President gave the floor in order to those who had come to table their amendments. Indrek Saar appeared at the same virtual meeting and said that he wanted to continue his performance last day. Last day, he read some material for a few hours, refusing to obey the order of the meeting. And he also showed up at this meeting and said that I would now like to continue my conversation, because I still have over 5 000 amendments to make. The meeting manager shut him down on the microphone and gave the floor to Raimond Kaljulaid, who had been invited on the basis of a timetable. Raimond Kaljulaid did his performance exactly as prescribed in the regulations. And then all the members of the Reform Party who had been at the Chatis, or online meeting, left. They couldn't be seen soon. Kaja Kallas murmured that he could not speak for technical reasons. On that point, I sent to him the two Commission advisers from the Reform Party Group with a computer. But according to the councillors, he didn't want to use a working computer. The same thing happened to Hanno Pevkur. They were offered a working computer, but they've made a lot of protests that they didn't get the floor. Later, we invited Kaja Kallas to a separate meeting. I've got the protest file right here. Is it time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U200	Do you need more time and if you need it, how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U201	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U202	Five minutes more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U203	We began to receive protests on a regular basis. This file is a protest case. We discussed these at the Sunday session. As I said, there are two kinds of proposals, two types of protests. One on too short notice and one on too short a time. Now, a few points of view, a statement of objections concerning grouping. Hanno Pevkur said that even with the best of wishes, you can't tear yourself apart like 9,000 pieces. He felt that it should still be possible to address all the amendments one by one. The same opinion was given by Kaja Kallas, who found that the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu allowed all these various amendments to be dealt with. They didn't agree to group. Jevgeni Ossinovski said that amendments may and may not like them and that some are essentially better and some are poorer, but a member of the Riigikogu has the right to submit amendments. The Commission's task is to prepare them at this stage of the procedure, i.e. between the first and second readings, so that they can be sent to the large Chamber for discussion. This work must be done in accordance with the law in order to allow decisions to be taken at second reading in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Commission itself may not decide on amendments, except for those which have a legal follow-up to the decision of the Plenary Assembly. Mr Pevkur pointed out that the work of the Commission needed, among other things, to prepare the legal text of both the decision and the draft law for the large hall. If the chairman of the committee had taken enough time and allowed the advisors to work, there would be, for example, 500 or 1000 proposals before the committee instead of five amendments, as many of them would have grouped, for example, different musical works as an Estonian anthem. Kaja Kallas commented on the grouping that the opposition did not have a majority in order to vote on these amendments and added that § 3 of the Constitution states that state power is exercised solely on the basis of the Constitution and the laws that are consistent with it, which is why, in the case of Parliament, the rules under which action is taken are very important. Nor has the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu limited the number of amendments that members and political groups may propose, and all amendments tabled in the framework of this draft are in accordance with the law. Kaja Kallas said that the meaning of the law is based on the provision of the law and that the provision of the law is clearly stated and interpreted in comments and in various judicial decisions, not by political will. In addition, Kaja Kallas stressed that the coalition always had a majority in order to overcome all opposition proposals. The Half Office replied by referring to the principles of the Constitution which relate to a large number of sections of the Constitution. He felt that, according to the principle of democracy, the majority must be able to decide and, consequently, that Parliament should be able to function normally. Thank you. To the questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U204	Thank you, dear waitress. A round of questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is, of course, kind of ironically great that, at the end of this law-breaking road roll procedure, you will land nicely on the opposition. But the question is about the bill. At first reading, you answered Mr Pevkur's question about how the legal clarity of the issue will be ensured so that the voters understand the legal consequences of the referendum. So you said you were doing a legal analysis. As far as I know, you in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss this issue very thoroughly between first and second readings. You said what the Chancellor of Justice said about the impact of the 'no' response. But what should the answer "yes" mean in such a case? In this regard, your opinions, as well as those of many other politicians and lawyers, have been very different. Could you tell me what legal position has been agreed upon? What position did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reach on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U206	You mean the 'yes' answer to the referendum? I have explained this position in the Commission. In the case of a yes-answer, if the people want to continue, that is the case. Creating a new situation, such as legitimising the marriage of same-sex couples, would require a new referendum. The 'yes' decision of the referendum could then be removed only by a new referendum. But otherwise, if there were to be a "no," it would provide a free way of supplementing family law, extending the concept of marriage and allowing same-sex marriage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U207	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, today we are dealing here with the draft decision of the referendum, the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Group of the Party Isamaa and also the Centre Party. The same point exists in the coalition agreement and, according to the polls, the people are very much in expectation that this inquiry will take place. Today we will be voting soon, and I have such a question or an opinion. I know that the Centre Party has different opinions about same-sex marriage, some are in favour, some are against. If the political group does not vote against it on the draft it has tabled, or if it votes against it, is it not a word-breaking act against the Estonian people? They kind of prefer power, not democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U209	I wouldn't be judging that. It is my job to present the proceedings as impartially as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U210	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U211	Good manager! Good waitress! I am not going to ask here, although it would be interesting to hear things as important as Mr Laaneots' desire to discuss banning the killing of flies, but the fly is, as we know, the food base of our national cities or General Kerd's desire to decide to wear purple or pink socks in a referendum. We're talking about marriage. Mr Kivimägi has made a number of proposals that fit somewhere in the south, where girls mature well young. Mr Kivimägi would like to legitimise marriage to 13-year-old girls and there are other colleagues, Mr Laaneots and Mr Pevkur, or 14-year-olds, as in Chad, in Papua New Guinea. Why didn't you give them the floor to discuss such an important question? Why didn't you let them in this big hall? It would be interesting for the people to listen to the proposal on marriage with children and many more at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U212	That's a very good question. As has been said, we received a large number of unconstitutional proposals, such as from Hanno Pevkur, whose question is whether only men can be elected to the Riigikogu or whether only women can be elected to the Riigikogu. Such proposals in breach of equality. There were a large number of absurd suggestions or bad jokes about what to call them. I guess the members of the committee were quite shocked by the texts they were supposed to read. However, the other Members of the Commission and the proposers were very convinced and did not find it funny, but felt that it was not possible to decide what was a better proposal, which is a worse proposal, so that all proposals should be processed. The Commission must not make any choice. This was a strong desire for performers to be able to process all the proposals, including those issues of marriage to 12-year-olds. It was their urge. Theoretically, there were some issues that were not at least constitutional, but against common sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U213	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Much has been said in the media that this referendum is somehow a threat to the equality of marriage, which in itself is a complete absurdity of the concept. This 100% equality cannot be achieved in society in any way. Instead of equality, we should rather seek a balance, and this referendum is, in my opinion, the best way to find a balance in society. But my question is, did anyone on your committee ever make that crazy talk about marriage equality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U215	Marriage equality was, yes, a slogan that has been repeated in these protocols, and that was a strong argument. Among others, Imre Sooäär called it in his performance, which was quite long. He didn't stick to the schedule either, stressed the same topics and gave a rather long talk. So the answer is, yes, it was one cross thread.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U216	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U217	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! It is clear that one of the tasks of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to protect constitutional order. And it is clear that several members of the Riigikogu from the representatives of the Reform Party made amendments that called into question the persistence of Estonian statehood, Estonia's allied relations. This gave Russia an excellent opportunity to intervene in Estonia's internal affairs, if they so wished, and to claim that Estonia has initiated an initiative at parliamentary level to move into the Russian sphere of influence and withdraw from the current Western orientation. As a lawyer and chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, how do you comment on this? Were you able to discuss these proposals? And what position would the Commission have taken on these?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U218	No reform party could or did not want to put forward its proposals. We waited three days for the Reform Party. On the first day, they had assembled, sat and waited long and long in Jaan Tõnisson's room. But the Social Democrats, the proposers of the Social Democrats, like Lauri Western Forests, were talking about their time. They spoke for at least an hour and a half and said that Lauri Läänemets would not follow the order of the meeting and would tell him how much he wanted. That's why the others stayed out. But on Saturday, when it became clear that the chairman of the meeting gave the floor in order, all reform parties had disappeared. No one showed up. And we sat down until the evening on the basis of the announced timetable to discuss their question of joining Russia and going to the ruble zone. These proposals they, I don't know for what reason, didn't want to present. If there were quite a number of reform party members on the basis of the announced schedule on a few days, on Saturday, when it was evident that the chairman of the meeting could now maintain order and cannot read a storybook, everyone who was there left at the virtual meeting left. I couldn't see anyone else in a day. Kaja Kallas said he had technical problems. They sent him a working computer. He didn't want to use it. It's recorded that two advisors came to him, and they assured me that Kaja Kallas didn't want to use their working computer. And during the day, they sent him an invitation. So the reform party didn't make it to the presentation on several days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U219	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U220	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Good waitress! What is your opinion as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: in today's circumstances, when hysteria has been heated up in all forms of popular initiative, is it also expected to come to a silent age, as was the case in 1934?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U221	Thank you. That is the kind of response I would leave to the representatives of the political groups. I am merely introducing the draft procedure here, as foreseen for the rapporteur. Of course, I have my own opinion on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U222	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U223	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! The Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provides how amendments to the draft law should be drafted. The Reform Party has proposed amendments to the draft referendum, for example, to Estonia's departure from NATO, or to Estonia to initiate the restoration of the Soviet Union, or to Estonia to be part of Russia's sphere of influence. And they have been formulated precisely in accordance with the requirements of this law. So they're documents that are properly drafted and signed. Later, members of the Reform Party claimed that these documents were a joke. I have a question: did you happen to know that I did not find such a place in the law? Does the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu state that it is possible to present any joke documents that meet the requirements of an official document?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U224	Thank you. There is no such thing as the law of humor, and there is no such thing as that expressed anywhere. It can be dealt with in newspaper jokes. Unfortunately, everything that is offered in this proceeding is treated here in a passionate way. And I have to say that one day I did not hear that representatives of the Reform Party or representatives of the Social Democrats did not take their proposals seriously. According to the protocols, they kept asking who was entitled to assess whether, for example, the Commission was entitled to assess what was serious and what was a less serious proposal. They had a proposal to farm dogs and many others, and they felt that they had to be processed. They were extremely serious, and the protocol is full of such sayings.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U225	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You had to work through these amendments, including those that asked whether domestic violence should be allowed or whether the minimum wage for police officers should be reduced. I am extremely sorry that we did not hear their views from those who made these proposals as to why this should be done. But how does it feel to you as chairman of the committee: if one day those who make these proposals are in the process of exercising power in the country, do we really have to fear that allowing domestic violence will become a topical issue and will be considered a sensible activity in Estonia? How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U227	Personally, for me, the whole process I was involved in was very Kafkalike. All the proposals that were put forward there were very different. They were mixed up, there was a group of rather serious proposals, for example, to discuss whether to allow the regional dimension to be taken into account in the distribution of euro money. But such proposals were mixed with absurdities, unconstitutional proposals. So it was a peculiar experience. Indeed, the protocol is full of the requirements to process these proposals in full from the outset to the end, to deal with them in full seriousness. This process certainly goes down in the history of Estonian legislation and parliament. I would say that, unfortunately, this process goes down in the history of all of Estonia. I refer my own words to the meetings of the Commission: I told the Members of the Commission and those who made their proposals that you know, this is a historic moment, you are making history now. And in that case, you have to consider what you're doing. You have the opportunity to withdraw the proposals. I asked repeatedly whether you were ready to withdraw your proposals. No one agreed. Later, only the proposal concerning Russia's accession was withdrawn. For me, as chairman of the committee, this was a very sad process in which I had to participate as a lawyer. A very absurd process! And I still don't really understand why they did it. On Sunday it was possible to make sure that this bill did not go to the Chamber. I thought that the Members of the Commission would not vote in favour of this because there was a great controversy about this issue. But they still gave their votes about 21:00 a.m. Sunday to support this bill coming to this hall in all its glory and glow and in all its gigantic volume.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U228	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! According to the Constitution, the nation is the highest authority in the country. At this point, however, we are in a situation where some of our delegates have tried from the outset to block and block this process so that the people can also say their word in shaping legislation. What is your opinion as to why these ambassadors do not want to allow the people to make their voices heard? At present, people can only participate in the process of electing the Riigikogu and local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U230	There was also a great deal of criticism and debate on the subject of referendums in preparation for the second reading of the draft. I'll see if I can find a place in the protocol. But my overall impression was that it was said, for example, in interviews and also in committee sessions, that it was very cruel. Kaja Kallas said that it is cruel and unfair to put to the vote a question whose content is to restrict the rights of minorities. And this message was also repeated in the Commission: it is incorrect to restrict the rights of minorities and to intervene in private life or in the private sphere. So it was extremely critical and confirmed that such an issue should not be addressed in the referendum. However, they were not critical of this huge package. They asked how, then, that one suggestion is better than the other, and who are you, that you can decide on it. I did say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had to look and choose. And that's what we did. Now, if you go to the credibility of these questions, I can read to you a few that were presented by Jürgen Ligi and the Social Democratic Party. For screening this gigantic number of proposals, I would like to acknowledge the extraordinary ability of the staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Within two weeks, all this material, such a number of amendments were able to be examined, both technically and in substance. When one positive thing came out of this extremely unpleasant and absurd process for me, it is that in the process it was confirmed that the officials of the Riigikogu are at a very high level and have a rare working capacity. But I shall mention the proposals that seemed to be taken seriously in the screening process. The Socialist proposal to ask whether a marriage must be between a man and a woman. That was their proposal for a new issue. Next, once again, the Social Democrats' proposal: could marriage be concluded between two people in Estonia in the future, regardless of their sex? This is perhaps the most accurate approach to this issue, which we expected. This relates to the idea of this draft, the scope, and this is one positive example of how we should deal with things in this Chamber. But for the rest of them, I personally cannot say that this is business, as we await in this Chamber. One of the proposals of the Social Democrats was to ask whether marriage in Estonia must remain merely an alliance between a man and a woman. And another proposal relating to the concept of marriage was put forward by Jürgen Ligi and Heidy Purga: doesn't marriage have to remain an alliance between a man and a woman in Estonia? If we go back to the numbers, I can say, and I also said in the committee, that this will all go down in the history of the Estonian Parliament. It goes down in the history of the Riigikogu, it goes down in the history of Estonian legislation and in many other ways history. It also goes down in history because during meetings, my office was invaded and refused to leave. Intruded into my office, which wasn't announced as a meeting room. Kaja Kallas, Valdo Randpere and Lauri Läänemets sat down in my office, said they were going to hold a meeting there, and refused to leave. And in order for me to be able to continue the meeting, I myself left my office and moved to the EKRE Group's premises. At first these room invaders made fun of us going there or going after him, but they didn't finally show up there. So I was able to resume the meeting. We had a long meeting. All the irregularities that I saw with my own eyes, to be honest, I haven't attended any meeting in my life where order is broken. And since the meeting was broken, for example, we just listened for an hour and a half to Lauri's performance in West Forest, where he was just talking about things he liked, and to Indrek Saare's presentation, where he talked about things he liked for hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U231	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U232	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Halfwit! Why are you lying in the Riigikogu Chair? You said I was talking over time. Seeing how you obviously couldn't manage the hearing, and that you had a mob, to say the least, I was foresighted, I started a stopwatch, I also informed the Commission about it and recorded my report so that it could later be used as evidence in the Supreme Court. There's seconds running up there: I didn't talk one second over time, I had practiced this report twice, and I had timed it with a stopwatch. You also had a limited time for questions. The second part of my question is: why did you turn off my microphone and let the vice-president of the Commission ask me a question? He was totally on time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U233	Thank you. According to my memory... The protocols aren't ready yet, maybe I was wrong in a few minutes. It may take days to complete the protocols, it's gigantic work, and four people are working on it. Once again, I recognize that I have already been given a pretty large package. But I remember there was still a problem with your performance. You insisted that you speak without limit, so that you can speak more, that you have a very important story that I can restore by memory. I remember it was a mess with your performance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U234	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U235	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, good waitress. We have long discussed the boundaries of the obstruction and whether the proposals for amending the draft were actually reflected in the spirit of our constitution and the oath of office of a member of the Riigikogu. Okay, but, uh, okay. Unfortunately, the Reform Party did not come, as I understand it, to report its proposals to the Commission. But those documents that talk about yellow gravel and digital watches remain in the annals of history, and unfortunately, there are also proposals that have been presented to Putin and Russia on the gold platter to rewrite Estonia's history in a useful way for Russia. For Russia, it does not matter whether any steps or statements are made under pressure or because of a bull. Do you agree that, written on paper and registered in the Riigikogu systems, these proposals will continue to pose a threat to our statehood and security in the future? And if the Reform Party comes to power, do we have to consider the possibility that they will also implement their Russian orientation in the new coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U236	As has been said, there has been a great deal of confusion with these proposals. We treated these proposals as an obstruction, and the two main reasons why we linked them together were that they were included in the objective of the objecture and were not related to the scope of the draft. The Constitutional Commission separately adopted a condemnation statement at its meeting on these proposals and found them to be contrary to the oath of office of a member of the Riigikogu. In our statement, we noted separately the proposal to offer a question to the referendum on the accession of Russia and the assignment of the Estonian islands to Latvia. During the discussions, we concluded that these proposals have an international dimension and that these countries may not understand whether or not our Parliament is having an indecent joke. This, in our view, could cause serious damage, and the Commission adopted this statement at its meeting and found that those who have tabled such proposals should apologise. Sorry hasn't come.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U237	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U238	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Over the last few weeks, we have witnessed a mockery of Parliament's working arrangements. And that's why it's awfully embarrassing. It's embarrassing for colleagues, and it's embarrassing for people who chose them. But you referred to one thing here when two left-liberals and one socialist invaded your office, louded there, and refused to leave. We have therefore reached a new level of basic parliamentary courtesy. Please tell me if you would consider it necessary to change the organisation of Parliament's work, its home and its Rules of Procedure. The current Parliament promises such incidents in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U239	Thank you for a very good question. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure, both me and many others raised, was repeatedly in discussions. We discussed, both at the level of the advisers and in the legal discussions, how to deal with this whole series of proposals. All of this has also been one of the most important motivations, suggesting the need to resolve obstructive situations. Now that I have time after the marathon sessions, of course, I intend to file a complaint about the intrusion into my office. I'm going to file a complaint about the brutal disruption of the meetings. I have not seen such threats at earlier meetings in my life. For example, Vice-Chairman Lauri Läänemets stated that if he cannot speak without limit, he has been a demonstrationer and a protester, although he can so disrupt the work of this committee that we cannot do our business. I took that warning seriously. And since last night the members of the opposition began to ask the Commission's advisors where the Half Office is tomorrow, I realized that they probably had not the best plan, and I really did not sit in the usual place for that reason. As a rule, I should sit with the advisors and chair the meeting to make it smoother, but we were all sitting in our work offices specially because I anticipated that we would be disturbed. I didn't expect it to be done so brutally. I thought maybe they were just doing a little show in front of the cameras, but the fact that they were ready to break into my office was startling. New level, like I said. And then I had to bring the councillors of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the EKRE Group's premises, because it was the only safe place where we could have a meeting. Otherwise, they would not have received it because they said that they would also have to be where the chairman of the committee is during the virtual meeting. The people who invaded my room found that they had to be where I am. So I assume they would have disrupted the meeting, and it was a virtual meeting with all means, either by questioning or judging by this physical invasion, I don't know, maybe some other thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U240	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is actually dangerous to put a stop to this Parliament's work with thousands of amendments. Do you agree with me that, in essence, opposition members will be able to use this tactic in a consistent manner for each draft government coalition to be introduced in the Riigikogu. The result is a totally clogged and inefficient parliament and, if not a government crisis, at least a crisis of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U242	Yes, I fully agree with you, and I have repeatedly sent a message that you have opened Pandora's box. I repeatedly called for the suspension to be abandoned, and I also asked whether you, as long-term Members, would not foresee that the same methods could be used against you. But there was no positive reaction, no completely cold reaction. They didn't find that to be a problem. But I really do see that the methods that have been set up here since the summer can stop Parliament's work once and for all. It is sufficient for one person, for example, to propose 100,000 amendments to the Law on Heavy Feeds produced on a computer. Parliament will also cease to function and the vote of confidence will not help because these amendments can be tabled for each of the smallest drafts. We have, for example, an amendment to the Law of the Courts to give them the opportunity to hold virtual meetings. Maybe there'll be 150,000 proposals. Is there a need for a vote of confidence? Are we going to vote on confidence every week? Pandora's box was opened. The situation is indeed worrying, and I am pleased that my good colleague, Peeter Ernits, helped me bring these packages here. This is Parliament's history. It's the history of obstruction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U243	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U244	Thank you for the floor. In fact, people in counties are watching quite a lot of the things that are happening here in the Riigikogu. And that is how these questions have been read. I know there are a lot of small radio stations across the border in Southeast Estonia. And I've been asked quite a few times that wait-wait, what's going on out there. There is a serious discussion at the border, which is taking place in Estonia. We've actually unleashed a monster we probably never wanted. I also read these questions, for example, whether to ban farm food, whether in the Republic of Estonia kindergartens should be banned, whether it is fair to raise dogs for food, whether a person could marry a snowman, whether lions on Estonian coats should be replaced by wolves. I have been asked by quite a few people to tell me, please, whether these are purposeful questions and whether such thinking could be like preparing society for the future. Can this wait for us? A simple person cannot understand that there is a joke in the Riigikogu. What is the answer to these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U245	Thank you for your question. I can assure you that I was often simply speechless these days. I was speechless when I saw the amendments that were put on the table. When I read the first suggestions, I was speechless. But since the journalists were in the room, I had to find the words again. Echo Kallas rolled it into our room. As the first Member of this Parliament, I have been shocked. After all, the protocol confirms my words that all these days were very seriously spoken about voting on these matters and that there was still a very angry demand on Sunday night, very angry and very blaming, why not all the proposals will be put to the vote. One by one, Kaja Kallas insisted on each and every one! I asked you if you thought it realistic that we were dealing with them in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs until August. Then he said yes, you will arrange your work so that you can still do it, and there is no problem. I asked what if Parliament were to process these years, he said that it would be handled. It's a matter of so many dimensions. I find it absolutely inappropriate to joke about legislation or to offer absurdities with a serious face. But I've never seen an apology from anyone. We are in fact in a situation where I believe the Riigikogu has disgraced itself with these proposals. I have also noted this at meetings, and I have also told the press that the reputation of the Estonian Parliament will land there near the reputation of the Latvian Parliament. According to studies, Parliament's credibility is around 34%. We're going in that direction on full speed. However, I do not support, in principle, the approach that Parliament as a whole is guilty and the reputation of parliamentaryism is bad for this. The whole Parliament is not guilty, the culprit is very easy to find. Look at these packages and read! I think it's impossible to understand the two ways. And that's why I'm still amazed, I was at the meetings. I am speaking on the basis of the protocol that, these days, the first person to admit that this is an obstruction, not a serious proposal, was Raimond Kaljulaid, who justified his disgusting poem in Parliament's proceedings. I asked why you did it. He was the only one who spoke that day. Others left, but Raimond Kaljulaid spent hours with us at the virtual meeting. And then, in the meantime, he went to a discussion about why he did it. So he was talking about semiotics and semiotic puns. At least it was interesting to find out. But then he spoke further about why this obstruction had been committed. No ambassador before that spoke of obstruction; they spoke as in holy truth, that all of it should be taken to the great hall. Holy shit! Yes, it was startling for the chairman of the committee and it is still startling. I don't really know if there's any way in the Commission... I was accused of lying. I thought Imre with Sooääre was quite a struggle. He made a number of demands and protests as to why he could not speak without limit, and he also spoke of his proposal. I remember that his report was very confusing. But he said he took his time with the stopwatch, so he thought he was right. Is this, in fact, a week-long lie in line with the code of ethics of the members of the Riigikogu? Maybe one day they'll say we want to vote on some proposals again, and that's ten days in a row, but then they'll say we were joking. It gives me something to think about for a very long time. But these protocols will remain, the protocols will be thick and thick. I've been approached not by someone on the street, but by an e-mail. E-mails have been sent by entrepreneurs and asked how we can start publishing these materials. I'm sure these protocols will be a matter of thought available to everyone. The protocols are being drawn up at a high speed. Let us hope that you can read them in your genuineness and maybe in a few months' time you will see all these questions in printed form, including whether you can marry or be married to a living person. And so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U246	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! With the signature of Eerik-Niles Kross and Heiki Kranich, an amendment has been tabled to the draft, should everyone's right to oral and written affairs in Estonian be waived in the state institutions? With regard to this amendment, was it also mentioned and explained what language should then be the future administration of the public authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U248	Thank you. As Eerik-Niles Kross did not appear to explain his amendment, it was not discussed. We focused on the core of the matter, or we picked out four serious proposals. We worked through all other proposals, with different degrees of deepening, of course, but we still managed to select those that were in line with the concept of marriage or related to the definition of the concept of marriage in the course of the examination. And I introduced them to you. But, of course, theoretically, at least you can put such a thing to a referendum. In Latvia, there was a vote on the question of two national languages whether Russian could also be the official language of Latvia. So Eerik-Niles Kross may initiate a new draft and proceed with his plan if today his proposal is voted down in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U249	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good waitress! There is no doubt that this obstruction of work was directed against the marriage referendum, and I ask for a little generalisation. Indeed, what impression have you had as chairman of the committee, was the problem only because the organisers of the organisation did not like to hold a referendum on this particular subject alone, or, in fact, was there a fundamental opposition behind it in order to give citizens the opportunity, by referendum, to shape policies on whatever subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U251	Thank you. I personally had the impression that it was tried to point out that referendums were wrong, unreasonable, harmful. This was also mentioned in the Commission. But since there was a great deal of talk, including the Sunday meeting, which lasted from 12:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m., I owe you the answer on all the details and discussions. But all of this glows through referendums and strong reluctance to ask the people questions about the organisation of state life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U252	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U253	Dear Deputy Speaker and waitress! In 2014, the principles of good practice of a member of the Riigikogu were adopted here in the Riigikogu, the initiator of which was the current Head of the Reform Party and Reform Party Group Kaja Kallas. The definition of these principles of good practice was based on the need to ensure the reliability of the representative population. It sets out the principles that a member of the Riigikogu avoids damaging the reputation of Estonia and the Riigikogu; a member of the Riigikogu is respectful, polite and avoids inappropriate language for colleagues and other fellow citizens. For example, a member of the Riigikogu will do everything in his power to act in the best faith in accordance with the best practice of a member of the Riigikogu. I have been following all this, I dare say, to what has been happening in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I have read these amendments. Kaja Kallas has emerged as a leader, precisely the same person who has drawn up these principles of good practice. I have serious doubts that all this certainly has not increased the credibility of the Riigikogu in any way and that it itself has not complied with these principles in any way. But since I am not a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and did not directly participate in these meetings, I am now going to question: is my impression, based on the media's broadcasts, that the same principles of good practice have been violated, correct? And how do you feel about this behaviour, how much credibility of the Riigikogu now rose to this piece in the background?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U254	Thank you. I have also called it a palogany myself, and I have called it in many other ways, including an exceptionally bad cabbecue theatre and the troll of Parliament, the humiliation of Parliament, the mockery of Parliament and many other ways. I don't have that document to do right now, but of course I think there are still a lot of points that it says. And I'm going to bring it up. Of course, I'm treating my office as an incident that can't be overlooked and treated as a little bit of naught. It was a nasty attack on my private quarters. And when we go back to mixing the meeting, the genie was actually released from the bottle. So now it's like this, so it's probably some kind of precedent. It is now a new practice that if you do not like a draft law, as Lauri Läänemets said: from here on and not beyond, I must be able to introduce my 30 amendments. He sat next to me and started talking real loud so no one could talk over him. And he was talking, I think, for an hour and a half. I sat next to him, made 15 remarks to him, or there were 16 of them, as he proudly corrected me in this hall. Now suddenly, a new parliamentary practice was created, which has no connection with the points of their earlier code of ethics. So be prepared that anything can happen in this house. I think that everyone who really played it along should apologize first and then discuss it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U255	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U256	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm still interested in the rudimentary origins of this behavior. All right, we as supporters of a traditional marriage are called homophobes. In that case, we can clearly say that the other side will then be marriage haters. Was there also a pattern that hatched, for what reasons these people are fully dignified against the institution of marriage? Is it personal failure, inability to make compromises in marriage, or is it a general tendency and a desire to represent the saying "O tempora, o mores" itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U257	Now, if you follow exactly what was said, you didn't speak out against marriage. However, it was always stressed that marriage must be gender - neutral. Not everyone did. But it was the Socialist talk that went through that, under no circumstances should people's private lives be dealt with, so did Kaja Kallas. It must not be put to a referendum, it must not be restricted to their private sphere. He repeatedly called it very cruel that putting such things into a referendum is a very cruel act. The main message was that the concept of marriage should be extended; it should also be possible between same sexes. Or there was another version: occasionally, the creation of the possibility of a partnership was also mentioned. There were also plenty of discussions about § 1 of the Family Act, but more in passing, it was not the focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U258	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U259	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The Riigikogu Board today put two questions to the vote, which were just about how to say these problems. One on protest issues as a whole and the other on the ethical side and the wording of these issues. I do not read it out in its entirety, but the Riigikogu Board deplores and condemns such proposals and calls on Members of Parliament to refrain from submitting such questions in the future. And now it happened that Parliament, by a majority, did not support this proposal. Some Members of Parliament went out, did not vote at all, and also those who were actually in favour of voting for a referendum on this issue. How will we continue to live in this Parliament in the future, based on this same vote? Are we still going to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U260	Thank you for your question. I agree very much. I share your concern that these problems may persist and also deepen, that we have an open path of certain cultural deprivation that I have experienced and that everyone else has witnessed. Our parliamentary culture has, I think, been hit hard and how to go on the road to recovery, I don't know. Life will show. I have not heard any excuses, including for the proposal to join Russia. If people realize that they are wrong, they can start by apologizing. But no one's ever done it, and it doesn't look like they're gonna do it. Personally, I consider this to be a disgrace. And at the moment, I have no hope. Life will show. The code of ethics was thrown into the trash bin these days.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U261	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U262	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! With the signature of Light Everaus and Signe Kivi, the amendment to the draft has been tabled: "Should there be a ruble in Estonia as the currency?'. In connection with this proposal, was it also a question of why a ruble? And have other alternatives been proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U263	Thank you. Since they didn't come to present their proposals, I never knew why they did it. I proposed that many of the presenters withdraw their proposal. Nobody did this except Ants Laaneots, Kruus and Jaanson. As far as other languages are concerned, I've been working on this material all these days, but I don't remember being offered anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U264	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U265	Good manager and waitress! I don't want to stop at the nonsense I've been reading here for hours, but we're talking about the code of ethics and the organisation of work of the Riigikogu. And if now it is strongly fashionable to bring new normalities to society, well, that sex is a social construct and that a father may have a skirt and a mother has a beard, etc., all of that, shouldn't the Riigikogu have a new code of ethics? Kaja Kallas becomes Prime Minister, but the Riigikogu no longer exists. Let's make a new code of ethics, and let's say that that's what we can figuratively say by pouring slop fuel into a car tank, when it comes to banging, as ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats have done, and, if it is necessary, pull a bag onto someone's head after a stupid story that hasn't been done yet. And so on. And there is no need to respect colleagues and institutions, committees. What do you think of that? Maybe we should keep up with the times and create a new code of ethics when Echo is already prime minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U266	Honourable colleagues, let us try to stay within one minute. I'm quite flexible, and I promise you I'll go a little bit, but let's try and keep this one minute. Now, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U267	Thank you, good questioner! It really is a place of thinking whether such a code of ethics is necessary at all, unless there is any interest in complying with it. But an empty norm that's written down somewhere, but no one's going to fill it has ever been seen before. I guess this is the point of thinking. In itself, it is essential to maintain a standard, even a minimum standard. But if anyone, even one of the authors of the code of ethics Kaja Kallas, finds that he can break into foreign offices, sit down there and refuse to go out, I don't know if he read the code of ethics carefully himself. The other thing is that there are precedents in legal matters, vital examples of how they really behave. In our real life, it's more like if someone shows a high political culture, dignity, it's a precedent, an example of a high level. But you could try to follow it. If someone is doing something like Indrek Saar was doing in front of this hall with a bang, or like the Reform Party people who brought the posters into this hall did, it's not precedents that keep tearing down that threshold. If there were no protests on them, no excuses were made, then therefore, the whole political culture has gone down. During the procedure in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it also fell down somewhere. Some might say that, but they used to. No one apologized. It may be that you see, I do not like this bill, I scream loudly, I accuse everyone, I call for absurd proposals to be put to the vote. Let's just assume that there is some sort of committee meeting, that the person who came there is bored or in a bad mood, and that he makes a hundred proposals on the subject that we ban eating or drinking in Estonia, that we ban common sense in Estonia. Yes, this was not the proposal that we are banning common sense in Estonia. It is not in this package, but it seems to me that it characterises a very large number of proposals in this joint draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U268	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U269	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The question-answers here give the impression that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was somehow in a state of compulsion and had to break the law for progress. It's strange to me that the only way to overcome differences is to use the power and the power to solve it. Did you, either in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or in the EKRE Group, discuss a way forward, as an alternative, to find a compromise on how to get out of this deadlock so that the situation does not escalate, the conflict does not deepen? In fact, it is the work of the Commission's chairman to mitigate tensions and find solutions that would reduce the conflict.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U270	Thank you. We also discussed this with the coalition members of the Commission and found that the democratic process was being hijacked, that the obstruction was aimed at stopping the democratic process. And we found that the funds were no longer being chosen, that we were prepared to impose the will of the minority by all means. And that was one of the reasons for linking these proposals together. In the interests of the functionality of the Riigikogu, a minority should not be able to impose its own rules on the majority. Parliament must be able to act. We found that this was a serious violation of the democratic process. And I still find that to be the case. I think we saw a very strong anti-democratic attack.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U271	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U272	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! On the previous question, I would say a very simple answer. There will be no negotiations with terrorists. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was kind enough to negotiate with terrorists for much and long enough. I'd probably have been with a much tougher hand. But there's something else. The Social Democrats, if I remember correctly, okay, I will not say a name just in case, otherwise maybe it goes wrong, have suggested among the suggestions for improvement whether Estonia should leave the European Union. Did the honourable rapporteur, as a Eurosceptic, not regret the fact that he could not vote on this proposal in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U273	The absurdity of this process was evident from the first moment that this shipment was pushed to us by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the reading of the first proposals. From the beginning, it was clear to me that I did not want to participate in this process, even in spite of the few grains that were in this whole pile. And I comforted those who tabled these amendments, like Riina Sikkut, so don't worry, you will not be able to enter the future book with the golden letters. You dealt with obstruction, but at least these proposals were not shameful, but related to some serious areas of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U274	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U275	Good President! Good performer! If you were attacked by those so-called revolutionary sailors or anarchists, would our security service or something like that help? What if that happens again? What thoughts would you have to share with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U276	Thank you very much. This is what I really discussed with the security services of the Riigikogu and they explained the limit of their powers. They said they couldn't interfere unless they were physical. On this subject, there was indeed a discussion with security staff that, if things continue to be so, we must invite security services to at least make sure that meetings are not physically rendered impossible, which Lauri Läänemets threatened. Of course, I asked for those words to be recorded. I will certainly continue to deal with these issues, and it is a matter of thought for all of you, too. If someone in the Riigikogu, a minority that is widely advertised here all the time, does not get their way, will the doors in this house be blocked? For example, can a meeting be held for three hours in a row, as Indrek Saar did? I hope everyone has their own inner clock and dignity. I have always had a very high level of respect for this house as an institution, regardless of my personal opinion on one or another ambassador, on one or another political direction. But now, in my opinion, it is the dignity of this institution as a whole that has been severely affected, in my view it has been very seriously hurt. I am a first Member of Parliament, and I have already said that I hope that I will never become so cynical that I am watching such a thing with complete care.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U277	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U278	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I think we're luckily living in a world that's complicated enough. That it is not the case that the referendum is automatically good and right and obstruction in any way wrong and destructive to democracy. As regards the amendments tabled under my name, such as the one on general health insurance, I have really been convinced for 20 years that this is what Estonia needs. I know that there are different opinions in this Chamber, there are doubters, there are convinced opponents. And that's perfectly understandable. But I think that a parliamentary debate on this issue is necessary. Of course, that makes the Commission's work difficult. For example, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs have, I think, discussed tens of times in recent years the proposals concerning the e-cigarette liquids of Tarmo Kruusimäe. Whatever I think about the essence of this issue, I believe that Tarmo has the right to make proposals on this subject, to speak on this board and to call for these proposals to be voted on in this Chamber. In fact, it also concerns other issues. Yes, the procedure of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is slowing down, it is much more complicated, but I think it is necessary in the interests of democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U279	Question! Now, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U280	Why was such a lighter path chosen in the Commission? In fact, the substantive proposals to be discussed were there, I think, at least twenty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U281	Thank you for your question. We were faced with the exact same question when we saw these proposals. Indeed, I congratulate the questioner for his proposals being constructive, as were those of Helmen Hunt and many others. But, unfortunately, they were through with others. You have made separate proposals, but the proposals put forward by the Socialist Group as a whole, for example, were completely absurd and unconstitutional. Unfortunately, we have seen that this is an obstruction, an attempt to shut down Parliament's work, and we have found the reason for the association that we have to apply the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act to the interpretation of purpose and to look at the law as a whole. And it's been done before, by the way. In today's debate, I have not pointed out that there was a similar debate here in 2005 concerning the amendments to be discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. At the time, it was led by Väino Linde, a reform party of the Commission. I have several similar examples from history. One has been removed from the report of the Riigikogu since 2005. At that time, both the Commission and the Chancellor of Justice took a position on these interconnections. A large number of proposals, 400 of which I remember, were proposals tabled by the Centre Party Group. The Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, also answered questions about them here on the remote. He gave the following answers to these bindings. The question was whether the fact that the Committee on Monetary Affairs included amendments to the list of amendments submitted by the political group and members of the Riigikogu on the draft State Budget Act 2005 as one amendment is in line with § 62 of the Constitution. Complaints were submitted on the subject of restricting the rights of a member of the Riigikogu. Allar Jõks took the view that if the amendments tabled by several authors were combined into one amendment, such a merger should not infringe the rights of one of the authors. The best quote I could find is this. He found that the rights of performers, each member of the Riigikogu and the rights of the Riigikogu as a collegial body must be balanced, that the rights of one member cannot fully outweigh the working capacity of the Riigikogu as a constitutional institution. He felt that one of the objectives of the Constitution was to ensure the legitimacy and effective functioning of the highest institutions of power in the country. The purpose of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act is to enable the Riigikogu to exercise the powers conferred on it by the Constitution and to lay down the internal rules and procedures of the Riigikogu within the framework given by the Constitution. In addition to guaranteeing the material and procedural rights of individual members of the Riigikogu, the Rules of Procedure must be good for Parliament, as a collegial body and constitutional institution, to be able to perform the functions assigned to it by the Constitution and for representatives of the people to exercise the mandate obtained from the people in elections. 'As Chancellor of Justice, I am of the opinion,' said Allar Jõks, 'that the interpretation given by the Riigikogu's board does not conflict with the provision and idea of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act.'
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U282	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U283	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, I tabled 20 amendments. I also had the opportunity to introduce some of them to the Commission, and I must say that I am not going to take them back, I am not going to apologise for them, because they are social policy and they matter to people. These are not my ideas, they are the real problems of people. I have tried three times in this Chamber as a draft and as a draft decision to the Government of the Republic to make a point and a request, for example, to allow a nursing home for a pension. It's voted down. And I very much respect the referendums, I really do, and I think it is time to ask the people these things. My proposals were all social policy. I am saying, instead of asking now, for the sake of the verbatim report, that there were still questions that actually deserve to be asked by the people, discussed and important to people in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U284	Yes, I repeat: I congratulate you on having systemic proposals that were not mixed with absurdities or unconstitutional proposals that you can read in each of these packages. But as far as obstruction is concerned, every member of the Riigikogu, as Jüri Adams has pointed out, has quite a rare opportunity in the European Parliament to initiate a draft. This means that you can submit all your proposals in a new draft. And, of course, good legislative practice should be monitored so that they are not presented all at once, but one by one. Then it will also be possible to have a parliamentary debate normally on what you consider important. I hope that there will be no 50,000 amendments to your draft, as the Social Democrats did in the summer. The year was 2088, which was the last date in their proposals. 2088! It is clear that it was produced by a computer program that the author of the proposal no longer reads it. Now we are in a state where the artist no longer reads his proposals ♪ once again has created a precedent. I understand that the opposition may have reproaches on anything, but now there is a precedent that any draft law can be flooded by proposals made using a computer program and put Parliament to a halt. And my question is, if such a precedent, such precedents have been set, will there be 100,000 proposals for a draft law on feed for power. Let's see, let's see, let's see, But I think that the Rules of Procedure Act must be amended, because Pandora's box is open.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U285	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U286	Thank you. I guess you in the opposition have time to deal with it calmly and think about it. You quoted the Chancellor of Justice very selectively and wrongly. Indeed, this precedent was in 2005. The Committee on Monetary Affairs then grouped identical amendments, and the Chancellor of Justice took the view that if the identical amendments tabled by several authors are combined into one, such a merger must not infringe the rights of any performer. It's very fundamental. And there was indeed no violation of the rights of any performer at the time, because everyone could vote on their amendment. You have now expressed the opinion that colleagues Sikkut and Kütt have put forward sensible proposals, but the Group of the Social Democratic Party has not. For the sake of argument, let's assume you're right. Why, then, have you decided to limit to a majority the right of Mr Hunter and the College Sikkut, which is legally granted to them, their right to submit amendments and to assume that they will be dealt with by law and voted on in the large Chamber? You have unlawfully deprived them of this right. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U287	The Commission has the right to make its own choices. And these reasons, which I also mentioned when quoting from the Chancellor of Justice, are very compelling reasons. Parliament must be able to do its job as a constitutional body. Jüri Adams also noted in his recent article published in Postimees that the members of the Estonian Parliament have an extremely wide range of powers when submitting drafts. It is not the purpose of the Rules of Procedure Act to ensure the organisation. The purpose of the Rules of Procedure Act is to ensure the regular processing of draft laws and the adoption of laws. I think you've crossed the line in obstruction, and now you have to start setting these limits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U288	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! You're here two years longer than I am. I'd like to ask your advice. I do not know whether, fortunately or unfortunately, history shows that it was not possible to submit any proposals to amend this draft decision and there was no right to be present at the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I don't quite understand it, and I'm asking you for advice on the future. If, at some point as a member of the Riigikogu, I would like to make an amendment to some of the drafts, what should I do if my colleagues whose proposals were bound together did so? What else do I have to do to ensure that my rights as a member of the Riigikogu are guaranteed so that I have the opportunity to defend my proposal at the committee meeting, where my proposal will be decided? What can I do to have my proposal voted in the Chamber so that I can also find out the opinion of my colleagues, the large Chamber, on my proposal? What is your advice to me for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U290	I have really good advice for you: maintain decency. Obstruction is not a human right, obstruction is finding a grey area between sections and it is not a human right. Maintain dignity! Unfortunately, the borders are now brutally crossed. We need to start discussing the changes to the Rules of Procedure. If you had maintained your moderation, we should not be discussing this issue. We would have spent a few days here at the usual night sittings, and you would have been able to say your critical position quite strongly through it. At the moment, you did everything you could to stop Parliament's work. You did everything you could to disparage referendums. The issue of growing dogs for food is, in my opinion, classified there in any case and many other topics as well. So since the sense of measure is gone, we need to start setting limits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U291	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U292	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much for answering the previous question. That's exactly what we've done. Tomorrow, there will be a nursing home for the pension in the big hall, and I very much count on your support. It was more like a comment. Now it's a question. I am quite convinced that it is not really a seat that the positions must depend on, they must be regardless of whether there is a coalition or opposition. I believe you, by the way, if you confirm here that your own views remain the same regardless of your seat. Whether you are in the coalition or in the opposition, your views are the same. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U293	Thank you. I think that positions in the opposition can be critical, why not. But you mean obstruction, if I understand correctly. In my opinion, Parliament must be able to act. It must be understood whether such a situation will be prevented by political culture or whether we will find another point of balance. Are we sticking to what we've experienced before in this case of obstruction, sitting at night sessions, or is it being arranged in some other way? But I think there's got to be some sort of solution. What it is, I can't tell you, because the situation is unexpected for many people. I think that the situation is also unexpected for those who tabled these proposals, because they went out to a very high risk. And sadly for me, they weren't willing to give up that risk under any circumstances. Their desire to deal with all of this here was very demanding. I think someone should sit down and discuss this. But before that, so I'm actually thinking, you need to take some time and calm down. Those who have just carried out this huge obstruction by flooding Parliament with anti-constitutional issues should not feel that it was one successful method, and so it must be that this is the way forward. We've done this very brutal obstruction and we haven't apologized, and now we're winning, and now everything's great. In fact, because of this precedent, a Member of Parliament who stops Parliament's work and prints box-by-box material out of the computer is sufficient. In that sense, this precedent is very bad. I don't know how to give you any good advice right now. This is one of the complex ways to react to such a thing. And perhaps in the next composition there will be a small group that does not agree with anyone at all. Perhaps these falls will not produce a good result either, and this group will make Parliament's work stand by your own method. What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U294	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U295	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Just one more little question. I didn't manage to come to that committee. I was invited, I didn't have many amendments, and if there was any proposal that seemed strange, I would have come and explained what was behind it. But you sent an invitation on January 7, the time was given. I showed up, then it turned out the hearing was over. I asked you to fix it, too. Then no one told me anything about why I can't explain, etc. That night, an invitation came in the next day, then you had this meeting online. I joined it through this link, and at exactly the right time, I held my hand up there for half an hour, but I couldn't get a word. I cannot wait for hours and so I could not come to the Commission to explain. How do you explain that? I listened to you talk, but it doesn't match what I experienced in my case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U296	Thank you. Yes, it was a very difficult day when the Social Democrats began to present their proposals. When the sequel came to Lauri in the West Forest, he said that from here on and not beyond, I must be able to present all 30 of my proposals as long as and as much as I want. He spoke over others at the meeting, disobeyed a large number of comments, and it is understandable that the meeting could not go on listening to you because the meeting was interrupted. But for you to have the floor, we arranged a separate hearing on Saturday, an additional hearing. And since it was possible to turn off the interference microphone and open their microphone who were in line, the meeting went well. But then, interestingly, you showed up, just like almost no reform party that was on the list. We had a long list till tonight. On that day we had also written very accurately that the order might shift, that you might be moved, that this list was conditional. But then there was silence. In fact, you knew that's the way to be informed. You had the chance to go online, you weren't supposed to show up. And you could consider that it was conditional that the whole day was possible to attend if necessary. I told you the line might shift. If someone falls out of the way, you'll get word faster. There were orienteering times, we emphasized that the times were indicative. And that's when we waited. As soon as I was able to give the floor to the proposers, there were no more interested parties. Those interested in explaining the amendments immediately ran out. And we waited until 7:00 p.m. tonight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U297	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U298	Thank you. Dear waitress, First of all, I can really agree with you that, at times, the meetings of the Commission you chaired and planned, in which I took part, were indeed cafkalike. But this is not because the opposition would have wanted it, but because you put in place unprecedented rules, which fell out strangely and which changed day after day, all the time overnight. They had to be adapted to new circumstances. I must also say that your claim that Indrek Saar was reading materials for a long time there is not true because most of the time I answered the questions. Indeed, I also quoted the Human Development Report, which is an important working document for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For example, when we talked about how community houses should be located in Estonia, we also talked about the Community Houses Act, which was in force in the first Republic of Estonia. But that's my question. The rule you set out that I should have introduced the group's amendments in 15 minutes means mathematically that I needed to present more than six proposals in one second. Would you describe to us, and also to the verbatim report, how you, as chairman of the committee, imagined it would be possible to present six proposals in one second?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U299	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U300	Yeah, that's the question. You can, of course, mark it for us here on the spot, how you would do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U301	Thank you. As I explained: it was not, in our understanding, a serious wish to add anything to Parliament's legislation or to this draft. It was an obstruction, just like you were finally trying to confirm in the press. But at these meetings, you spoke with conviction that you really wanted to discuss all these proposals. I think we have done our best with the Commission so that you can still explain why you presented them. And my deep conviction is that you still didn't want to do it. I'm surprised you're still saying that. It's about time we started talking a little bit clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U302	Thank you. Questions, dear waitress, no more for you. The time for answering questions is over and it is now possible to open negotiations. Indrek Saar, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U303	Yeah. Since the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not exactly regulate what should be done at the moment, but the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu gives the performer the right to withdraw his amendments, I would ask... The Anti Division may take its place, this is for the manager, it does not concern [the rapporteur]. The work of the Anti-Poland Forest is done. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to withdraw the proposals 4.1 and 4.2 contained in Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U304	Here you go, put an end to these proposals! And now we're starting negotiations. Lauri West Forest is first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U305	Three more minutes, just in case, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U306	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U307	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always said that I have always been a fundamental supporter of the referendum and the public consultation and greater participation. But the way this draft referendum has been dealt with in the Riigikogu has made this whole draft shameful, unprecedented, to break democracy, unfortunately by Parliament itself. The proposals that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and several of the current coalition's ambassadors have spoken about a great deal about and called them ridiculous, pointless, irrelevant, are you aware of who has been made? Made by the Estonian people. These are, in the opinion of the Estonian people, important questions that could be put to the referendum. And then one party comes, one chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs comes and says that, you know, the people of Estonia, you make foolish proposals, you make stupid suggestions that I, you see, have made another proposal here that could be asked by the people, and I think it is much more important. I wonder how one party can take the courage to call the proposals made by the Estonian people foolish, incompetent? Yes, I have tabled 28 amendments which were said to be incompetent. Really, people passed them on. Well, for example: should work on Sunday be paid double or reduced regional inequality, or should the state stand for the survival of Estonian small schools? And all these things are very irrelevant! It's an obstruction, of course you don't have to discuss it! We had very different logics when we tabled amendments. These really were sincere wishes; they are important things for me and very many Estonian people to ask for in the referendum. Yeah, of course, there was an obstruction. And the point of the obstruction, I want to reiterate, was that in this health crisis, in a situation where the economy is not doing very well, in a situation where people lose their jobs, fall into poverty, we should not be dealing with a referendum that will only take attention to itself for the next three months and these people, their coping, will not receive that attention. It was an obstruction idea. Obstruction is essentially a message. Friends from the coalition, ladies and gentlemen, listen up! People have a problem. Look here, maybe we can meet somewhere, talk, find some other solution, postpone! But no, no wish to discuss it. This was also the wish of the people, the Estonian people. Because, you see, the will of the people is expressed not only by power parties, but also by opposition parties and not even by opposition parties, but also by parties that are not currently in Parliament, and also by NGOs. No one can say that they are wrong or that their opinions are somehow wrong. No, the opinion of the Estonian people is never wrong. We do not need to like it, we do not need to support it, but we should listen to the wishes of the Estonian people through their elected ambassadors in Parliament. And that's the hearing you took away. You took some of the people of Estonia away from being even heard in Parliament. Now that's impudent, and that's unprecedented! These are the times we've been talking about here. In fact, it is completely absurd: to present 6.5 proposals per second or, in my case, within 11 seconds, to present a proposal, to answer questions, to hold a debate. It's making some sort of bird, it's not a meaningful approach. Look, it is very important to comply with the law and democracy is very important, because democracy is not only a question of the functioning of Parliament and the functioning of the state, but democracy is also a matter of prosperity. I think yesterday gave us a very good example of how democracy is a question of prosperity. Member of the EKRE and the Centre Party, members of both parties have come into a very difficult situation where it has allegedly not yet been proven, but there may be suspicions of corruption. Porto Franco, EUR 40 million. 40 million euros of Estonian people's money is illegal now we will understand, perhaps soon, if the police prove it and the court decides to share it with party sponsors. Unbelievable! You know, 40 million would've been able to support those self-employed people, those private limited liability companies, taxi drivers, beauty servicemen, all those who didn't get support in the spring. Forty million could be added to the unemployment fund today. But they say there's no money, the money hasn't been found anywhere. This money could be used to support people whose unemployment benefits start to run out, who fall on income support. So, what do I want to say? Democracy and compliance with laws are, on the one hand, a matter of parliamentary work, on the other hand, a very important issue affecting people's livelihoods. And if the legislators in this Parliament do not follow it themselves, it is very difficult to demand it from the people too, it is very difficult that someone is standing up for the well-being of people at all. This is also perhaps the reason why Estonian families have not actually stood up as they should. And obviously, this undemocratic behaviour, which is inherent in nature, seems to me, not only to members of one party but to members of several parties, is also the reason why very many people have not been noticed when they are in trouble. There's no sign of entrepreneurs. At the end of last year, the government decided to suspend it by a government decision! A great many crisis measures, at the beginning of this year, once again with a government decision, were reduced to one important crisis measure. In short, the issue of coping and democracy. I'm glad that all the disgrace that's been going on here for the last few weeks, or actually longer, will be over today. I hope, honourable EKRE ambassadors, that now in the opposition you will find your way to deal with the obstruction. Just a suggestion to you that you only make pleasant and pleasant suggestions for everyone, ask for it first. And just as I said, the Social Democrats never let anyone break democracy, we always stand against it here and not one step further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U308	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U309	Thank you. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U310	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U311	Ladies and gentlemen, This debate is a debate on ideals. To think of a phenomenon as an ideal means to understand it as a special and beautiful, whereas to think of something as an ideal does not mean that everything else is in any way bad. My ideal is a society where marriage between a woman and a man is of special value. This ideal is shared by a very large number of Estonian people. According to a study carried out in November by Norstat, 63% of respondents would vote for further legal protection between husband and wife. Studies have shown time since then to show an overwhelming attitude toward this value decision. Nevertheless, there are political forces who have made this subject a toy of fighting and want to change the concept of marriage in the name of personal attention. The division of society was expected to begin in 2014, when, as a result of a political match based on lies, the cohabitation law was discussed right here in the dark of the evening, which affected everyone's sense of justice. To date, earlier supporters of the Cohabitation Act have proposed legalising same-sex marriage. The provisions of the current Family Law that make a marriage between a man and a woman have been changed. A draft has also been launched today. But let's go back to the ideals. What would it mean if marriage were really changed? For many people, something very important would be taken away for them. Are these people's opinions and feelings not worth anything? I think they're worth keeping and protecting. Mihkel Kunnus has written that confidence in his safety is a prerequisite for openness. Ladies and gentlemen, who want to change the concept of marriage in substance, please consider your actions in applying for the same-sex marriage and everything that preceded and followed the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. These initiatives attack, among other things, the very important value of people. It's hard for someone who doesn't feel safe to be open. There is no justification for disparaging minorities, including sexual minorities, and this disparage has been caused by the demand for same-sex marriage, which a large part of society perceives as an attack on its values. Today, the Riigikogu is conducting a referendum on whether the concept of marriage in Estonia should remain a union between a man and a woman. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the result of the referendum is binding. If the majority answers the question of 'yes', then in the future, it will not be just a majority vote in Parliament to legitimise same-sex marriage. This would be fundamentally different from the present situation. Such a change gives marriage additional legal protection. With such protection comes confidence for those whose marriage between husband and wife is sacred. Such an addition does not harm anyone, it does not harm any minority. On the contrary, when people are created with a sense of security about the concept of marriage, the real basis is to tackle the practical problems faced by different people, whether it is to regulate hospital visits or property relationships, and these issues have nothing to do with sexual behaviour. Today, some people also see dealing with these problems as a sneaking legitimisation of same-sex marriage. In 2016, the Pro Patria Riigikogu proposed to parties to initiate an amendment to the Constitution, which would provide for marriage as an alliance between a man and a woman. As there was not enough support for the proposal, the only option is the referendum as another issue of state life. A referendum is not a goal. The referendum is a means of achieving greater legal protection of marriage and bridging the social divide. Why other matters of state life? But because the family law that came into force in 1926 transferred the marriage registration from the church to the state. Since then, the sole task of regulating marriage is for the state. Finally, the question is the parliamentary sabotage of the referendum, the question of who in Estonia has the right to make value decisions. Value decisions must be made by people. I support this bill and recommend that others do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U312	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U313	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a historic day in many ways. We have a bill on the table for a referendum on marriage. This bill would not be here if today's opposition had not adopted the Law on Partnerships in 2014. It was driven over the will of the vast majority of the Estonian people, and brutally the cohabitation law was imposed, resulting in the division of Estonian society. The recipients of the Cohabitation Act have not concealed their purpose: the fact that they actually wanted to take small steps towards legitimising homosexual marriage. Today, several politicians have come out of the closet, and this has been openly acknowledged by several politicians, and this is also very well demonstrated by the fraud initiated by the sots to legitimise homomarriage, which has been joined by the Soviets and supported by the Reform Party and Estonia 200. To mention that there is no need for a marriage referendum is a complete nonsense, because it is [their actions] that makes it necessary to give marriage constitutional protection by referendum. The rumors of some sort of equality of marriage and of someone being deprived of [referendum] rights are pure absurd classics, because no one is being deprived of any rights of any kind. What is marriage equality? I'm sorry! Will same-sex couples be able to have children, as our constitution says in the provision that the family is protected by the state as an institution guaranteeing the durability, continuity and continuity of our society? So we need a marriage referendum. 72% of people in Estonia want this marriage referendum. Sixty-three percent of the people are in the polls supporting it. And now they want to throw it in the trash, take away again the right of the people to decide on important matters of state life, and then cross the crowd again with a roller coaster. This whole bill has been dealt with by a disgraceful obstruction, an unprecedented obstruction that we have seen here. Nearly 10,000 amendments, one of which is crazier than the other! Should the lawn be greener? Do you want to stop eating white bread? Can women eat before men? I don't know, whatever. Plus a huge number of proposals against the Constitution and Human Rights that a member of the Riigikogu can only be a man or a woman, as well as a president. Should we abandon all constitutional norms? Can people be discriminated against on the basis of gender, religion, I don't know what traits? But even worse, should Estonia... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U314	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U315	...to join Russia? Should we step out of NATO? Should we give up all our allies? And so on and so forth. Something more shameful, something scarier than the words of the members of the Riigikogu can't be heard! And all these proposals have been formally submitted, signed up to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This isn't a joke. This isn't a joke! In this context, today is a historic day, I would say, a black day for democracy in Estonia. If the Board of the Riigikogu decided that members of the Riigikogu would not make unconstitutional, offensive, proposals that undermine our security and Estonian image, that the obstruction should not go so far as to stop the legislative activities of the Riigikogu, then you voted this decision down. What does that mean? Each of you, who voted against it, voted in favour of the subsequent submission of unconstitutional proposals, proposals that undermine our security, offensive proposals. You want to make the Riigikogu the number one enemy of the state. I would call what happened today a revolution and a coup. This is a black day for democracy in Estonia. The Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia, led by the Reform Party, the Social Democrats and disgracefully the Centre Party, who dared not vote, who snatched his tail between his legs and ran out of the hall, took such a decision. Did you think a little bit? In this decision, no one, no political party, had been pointed out. It was about how a member of the Riigikogu must take his oath and stand up for the Republic of Estonia, the Estonian people and the Estonian state. And you spit on it. Why did you change the Estonian Riigikogu? Are you a little ashamed? I'm very ashamed of all of you. Anyone who voted differently from you, who supported this proposal, is very ashamed of you. And the Estonian people are ashamed because from this point on, you will no longer represent your electorate, neither the Estonian people nor the Estonian state. And this government, these ambassadors and political parties who voted like this, this government no longer represents Estonia. It is constitutional... [According to the speaker: It is unconstitutional. This is an anti-Estonian government. Shame!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U316	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U317	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The ping-pong guy told me a lot of things here, but I'm gonna make a little bit of a correction so all middle partyers can't get hit with one stick. A whole lot of people dared to vote in favour of this decision. But it's small. I've been reading this pile for the last week, this is my pile, my physical piece made by you, but I've got your pile. Actually, it's a very interesting analysis. I would divide the proposals that are here into five categories. I haven't read all of them, but I have most of them. First: Smart and on the subject of a few singles. Two: smart, but a little more than that. It's like an essay asking you to write on a subject, but you're missing it. You write well, but you miss. Remember what was in school? Sit down, two, out of the question. Third: Unconstitutional. Ping-Pong Henn was talking about some things here. I'm not going to name them for long. For example, in the Estonian school, the exorcism of the Estonian language, I name only one. Fourth: Estonia's national security and international reputation are damaged. A lot has already been said here about whether it would be better to live in the Republic of Estonia, Mr Kruuse and friends, the so-called Rodina connection 21. Or do you want to restore the collective farms and step out of the European Union? But most of all, there are proposals whose common name is "crazy." Secretary General of the Reform Party, very diligent writer Erkki Keldo: must pancakes be made in Estonia only with sour cream? (In conjunction with my colleague Kersna.) Toilet paper limit. And now colleagues from the Social Democrats are saying why they are not allowed to defend these [proposals]. Do you need to limit the use of toilet paper? And should we discuss whether pancakes should be made in Estonia only with sour cream? It's Keldo, yeah. Stop sowing winter rye and all that. But what does it really show? It's actually like pouring slug fuel in a car tank or planting nails on a plate. It's criminal activity. If someone's blowing gas in your car tank and you can't go any further, it's criminal activity. If the members of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia soberly pour solid fuel into the state's car tank, this is a criminal activity. On the other hand, it reflects the identity of the writer. I think social psychologists and journalists could look into it. It shows the ambassador's own education or ignorance, his secret desires, his desires. For example, General Kert, he's got some kind of soccer. My colleague, Kivimägi, wants to marry girls like he did in Africa. Or the Secretary General of REF, Jõgeva's boy, he's stuck to having a breeding plant there, and he's talking about banning barley sowing and banning winter rye sowing. The Plant Breeding Plant is known to be located next to Jõgeva. Many ambassadors have simply ridiculed themselves in front of their voters and colleagues with a sober head. For example, the esteemed army leader, Ants Laaneots, seriously proposes that the killing of a fly be prohibited. Or the other general, the Commander of the Defence Forces, Kert, is seriously writing proposals about putting purple, pink and other socks in a referendum, I don't think it's an officer. In ancient times, officers also had an honorary concept. However, to be honest, some ambassadors do not ridicule themselves. One example is Siim Kallas, who was in the chair before the sitting. And, to be honest, his daughter Kaja Kallas, too, to a large extent. I'd like a few more words.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U318	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U319	As a rule, they did not ridicule themselves. Well, except in the case of Kaja Kallas, one racist suggestion (with my colleague Milling) whether all Estonians should have bright hair. But it is a 'good family', educated [people], who realise that it will eventually reach the viewers, the voters. In fact, what I'm trying to say is that all of you who wrote, you know that you showed who you are, whether you're educated, uneducated, and so on. So it's not all in the same bag. Unfortunately, there are very few of these intelligent proposals here. Finally. What has been said here before is the opening of Pandora's box. I have watched and I am now able to do this: if I am allowed to present my proposal in any committee for five minutes, 400 proposals per week. It's, as they say, snowing. I'm gonna write for a month and only on my own. Or all of you, everyone. We can paralyse the work of the Riigikogu with any bill that has come from the Riigikogu, for a week, a month, two to two, and there is no need for any whole group here, I alone can do it. But is that necessary? This is not the new normality that has been said here about the code of ethics and all that. We do not need that, but with this, with these 9,000 proposals, this Pandora Box is open. From now on, any of us can clog up, pour slug fuel into the tank, sprinkle nails on the patch, etc. and, in fact, paralyze the country, Riigikogu and, of course, ourselves, paralyse the work of this hall. This is the conclusion of this week's so-called research, which is not complete, but what I suggest you look at, who has time. You'll find out who your dear colleagues are! For a lot of people, I've really changed my mind about who I'm dealing with. Thank you. Now I'm taking you with me this nonsense.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U320	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U321	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On Monday, I gave a speech in a free microphone about the conclusions I drew as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs after this marathon meeting. Unfortunately, I couldn't say all my thoughts out of time because there were only five minutes to perform. The main issue that I have then spoken about, and I would like to say a few words now, is that the draft [amendments] that was being dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was tabled by the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, and which, in its speech here today, a representative of the Social Democrats, in the form of a revolutionary sailor, pointed out that this is the end of democracy, is a greater hinterland. The point is, as has already been pointed out here today on several occasions, that these amendments highlight the fact that they want to abolish the sovereignty of the Estonian state and return to Russia. We will take the proposal of the troika Ants Laaneots, Jüri Jaanson and Urmas Kruus, who wanted to ask the people whether the life of the Estonian people would be better within Russia. We can also add to this the views that maybe there should be a ruble in Estonia, maybe we should be part of Russia's influence zone. Do we have to abandon the alliance with NATO and so on and so forth? I came to a single conclusion then, and I am also now, that this is, in fact, a step-by-step movement towards the actual composition of Russia. I finished my report with the words "masks have fallen." Today I would also like to add that this process has actually been going on for a long time. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Socialists Marina Kaljurand, together with the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and the Foreign Minister of the Reform Party at the time, Urmas Paet, concluded an agreement with Russia that we will surrender part of our country as defined by the Tartu Peace Treaty to Russia. This is a gross violation of the Constitution, because the territory of the Republic of Estonia, its airspace and its interior space are defined by the peace of Tartu. At this point, the President of the Reform Party, Kaja Kallas, says that this [proposal] was for fun and they took it back. There is no joke in Parliament, there is politics in Parliament, the will of the people is carried out, as the Social Democratic Party delegates say. Consequently, it is the will of the Reform Party and the Social Democrats to implement a policy of Russification and to go under Putin. Now that's politics! Good ambassadors and good people, Estonian people! When the elections come again, look and think about what kind of ambassadors stand for the survival of the Estonian people and the benefits of the Estonian state, and which use all kinds of political tricks and opportunities to move in the direction that the Estonian people lose their independence. This is your point in the upcoming election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U322	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U323	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I took my vows on Monday. Do you remember? be fully convinced that I represent the Estonian people in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. But a few minutes ago the President of the Riigikogu solemnly informed me that I no longer represent the Estonian people. I must grieve Mr President: I still represent and you are not the decision-maker whether or not I represent the Estonian people. It is my right to speak here and to decide, it is my right to put forward proposals and to object, and it is my right to have the opportunity to do so. On the third day I am a member of the Riigikogu and I will tell you honestly, I am shocked. I am shocked by this process, shocked by this roller coaster, how the rights of members of the Riigikogu are passed over, how the road roller is passed over the law of home and working procedures and also over the Constitution. And, dear Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, we, with the majority of the votes in this Chamber, declare this road roll a legal way of crossing the minority of Parliament. Today we did so with a vote of 49:48. Some of us, even those who spoke before, are very happy about this. I'm not! This is not the Parliament where I came to represent the Estonian people. I asked this several times, and I never got an answer on how I have to realise my ambassadors' rights, how I have to act, what I have to do to get my proposals to a real debate, both in the Commission, where I have the right to introduce and defend them, and in this big Chamber. What do I have to do so that I don't get run over by a roller and my colleagues don't call my proposals a pile? I'm sorry, but it makes me really sad. At the same time, I congratulate my fellow Members who did everything they could to stop this roller, even though they are called sailors, terrorists, anarchists and what else. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the rights of members of the Riigikogu. But now to the subject on the agenda, which is the survey on marriage. As a Social Democrat, I am extremely sorry that the subject of this public survey has ever come into our political life. The discussion about family, marriage and minority rights, which has often gone beyond the limits of courtesy and normality, has hurt, really hurt thousands of people in Estonia, committed us to sin with Poland and Hungary, harmed the international level and our international reputation. In addition, a considerable part of Estonian society has lost faith that their country cares about them. It will take time, it will take a long time for people to believe in their own country and their own parliament again. It is also sad that the ordinary Estonian person thinks that all politicians are like this: crossing minorities, taunting, hurting. It's not all like that, it's not. It has already been said here today that instead of dealing with a deep health crisis, a deep economic crisis... Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U324	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U325	Instead, we are dealing with a topic that does not make anyone happy, which does not solve any of the problems of Estonian society, which divides Estonian society, and I repeat, hurts thousands of people. Ladies and gentlemen, let's finish this. Enough! Enough, ladies and gentlemen! Marriage is already legally a union between man and woman, and it will probably remain for many more years. The referendum will change nothing here. I call on you not to support the draft decision 288. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U326	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U327	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! I'll put my glasses on so I can see the whites of your eyes. In the 18th century, soldiers were ordered not to open fire until the eyes of the enemy appeared. Now I can see the whites of your eyes and open fire. Poland and Hungary, think of the terrible countries! Poles and Hungarians, think about what inferior people! Can you imagine the Estonians want to become almost not Humanichs, Poles and Hungarians? Shame! Pozor i stõd na vju Evropu! The other half of this beautiful poem I'm not quoting. It was written on the wall of the bathroom at the university's main building. Anyone who speaks Russian can continue to fantasize what happens if... etc. So if I were to think of it as horrible, we are becoming an inferior country like Poland and Hungary with the inferior people who live in it! Is that love of neighbor? Is this a manifestation of great love for other people, or what? No, it's not. It's detestable, it's offensive. And not only are thousands weeping, as we have just heard here, but even tens of millions may cry when they hear about them in Estonia. You're ruining our foreign relations, insulting our allies! Poles will no longer come to protect Estonia. It is not because the Estonian Parliament said they were inferior people. Look, it's all so crazy. It's all so low. It's all so unintelligent, it's just embarrassing. And the most embarrassing thing is that those who say this shit don't feel embarrassed. They're not embarrassed. Go to Hungary, go to Budapest, go to the Hungarian Parliament! In no way does our Parliament give a comparison compared to its pride in its country, its nation, its kingdom, its kings, the Holy Throne of István and his sword. And then you come to say that we are like Hungarians in Eastern Europe. Shame! Shame on you for saying that! But let's get to the point. It's about what, isn't it? After all, the point is that when you talk about democracy, you are actually sinking democracy. You're actually afraid of the power of the people, you're actually afraid that the people will be asked and the people will say. And says something you don't like. And then there will be no more democracy. If the minority cannot push its will through with any method, as we have just seen, then there is no democracy. Well, we heard a weeping song here a while ago about how I had one second to present my proposal. What kind of proposal? What kind of proposition, friends? A proposal to go to Russia? Did you want to have a debate in this Chamber about the possibility that you have of defending this opportunity, the suggestion that we are going to Russia? Marko Mihkelson, where are you? You want to go to Russia's sphere of influence? I remember a few years ago you wanted a visa waiver with Russia. A few years before that, you fought for us to surrender the post-Tartu peace territories to Russia, not without a red penny in return. But it's all okay. This is not support for the Kremlin. "The lights in the Kremlin's windows and the light in my mind make me happy" be able to sing it, friends who are talking about the Kremlin and Putin here, but not how you have been deprived of democracy, that you cannot discuss whether we should leave NATO and whether we should go to Russia's sphere of influence. It could be a shame to lie down here with such nonsense and talk about how you do not have a democratic opportunity to defend your positions. You don't have any views, you just got a piece of shit. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U328	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U329	There's a guy here laughing all the time when I'm on the remote. I've seen those who laugh so unstoppably, they often have an intellectual disability. But, well, I don't know what it's like right now. Let us now actually come to the most important point. The most important point is what we are fighting about here. The fight is actually about referendums, it is about the people being involved in politics, not in the form of representative democracy, as we have another euphemism, but in fact. The popular initiative, the participation of the people, the involvement of the people, the decision-making of the people, this is it. That's it! This is the current political chamaril, I dare say so, he is afraid. What happened in the form of an obstruction, and the fact that you're defending it now, is that the obstruction is legal and the best, and in this form it's the most legitimate. Friends! There is a very high probability that tomorrow our party will be in opposition. We don't mind. I took off my silk gloves yesterday. I don't mind. And then, my friends, you have defended for us that if you come by hate speech law, we will propose 10,000 improvements to you, but not on whether we should go into Russia's sphere of influence, but on substantive issues. Substantive [proposals]. So you can't throw them away either. Then we will, and then we will. If you come to bring in the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act, we will do exactly the same for you. And if you come here with immigration bullshit and we know you're coming, we'll do the same for you. We're totally losing it. You're running out of here. You want to leave the government one day because you're so sick. But you've shown us it's all right. That's it. That's the only weapon in the opposition. So we'll use this opposition weapon, but we'll make a difference. That's the difference that cuts to the bone. There you go, my dear friends! There you go, my dear friends! The national initiative is coming, sooner or later. There's something else I want to say. This, the dear liberals you are fighting against, is not the Estonian Conservative People's Party or Mart Helme's modest emotionally heated personality, but human nature, normality. Human nature is what you fight against. But you're gonna lose this fight because human nature always wins. Trying to bend human nature never wins. I remember how, since 1970, the Soviet people had to live in communism. Well, we are now being promised liberal democracy, which is then the highest and final stage in the development of human society. I'm telling you, it's not coming. Faith and hope that the coup of power in the United States, I dare say the coup, will now be the foundation of your great liberal victory, will prove completely wrong. This foundation is made, like the Mafias did, not cementing, only sand. And it's falling apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U330	Heiki Hepner, please! Oh, sorry, yes! Evgeny Ossinovski must have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U331	Thank you! First of all, I'm glad that Mart Helme is in good shape. This oppositional attitude suits him and as such he does not harm the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U332	That's not a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U333	My question concerns § 158 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. The skill of foreign languages is undoubtedly sympathetic, but the work of the Riigikogu also lays down its own rules. As Head of the Riigikogu, how do you assess the compliance of the speech with this section?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U334	Thank you. I don't have in my head all the sections of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, but you can ask Mart Helme later what it meant. He spoke Russian, and I know it's your mother tongue, and you can do it perfectly. Thank you. Please, Heiki Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U335	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The roots of why we have reached such a position today lie in 2014, when the wounds were hit in the Estonian people. Regrettably, these wounds have not been treated in six years. With regard to the draft under discussion today, the focus has been on both the process, i.e. the formal side and, of course, the substantive side. Today, before discussing this item, we have confirmed that the committees have a very wide right to self-regulation and, in order to ensure their ability to work, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has acted within the framework of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. I admit honestly, something I saw and heard in the committee, I've never experienced before. I have also attended very hot meetings on both sides of the meeting table, but what the opposition offered, I have never experienced before. I understand I am a member of the first Riigikogu, but I hope this is not good practice. What was offered? There have been several attempts to give the impression that today's draft is not important at all. Why, then, such a forceful and uncultural obstruction? It has been said that it was a no-campaign, the questions should have been answered no. Was it? Which one is it supposed to be: should Estonia leave NATO or should a divorced woman be allowed to remarry? The wish of the Fatherland Party has been to introduce an addition to the Constitution which would have given certainty to the preservation of the concept of today's marriage. With three members of the Riigikogu, we have not yet reached this point. Yes, the proposed referendum is not directly linked to the amendment of the Constitution, but provides additional protection for the concept of marriage. Why is this protection important? Because on this basis, national reconciliation can be achieved. This is the foundation on which to start discussions to actually solve the problems of same-sex couples so that we do not push a part of the population, which according to various polls accounts for more than 50-60%, just under the table. Our goal must be to create a common part. Having a discussion about the marriage of a snowman or a dead person in this Chamber does not lead us to this. Also, hiding your head in the sand like an ostrich and pretending that everything is fine and that we continue as we have for the last six years will not bring home peace. Once again, we must ensure certainty for those who believe that marriage should remain a union between man and woman. This provides an opportunity for discussion, for solving practical problems for same-sex couples. The proposed referendum is the only alternative to what the Pro Patria Party has previously proposed. We need a win-win-win-solution as a society, not a loss-loss-solve, or we need to continue without doing anything. It is also not satisfactory to eliminate today's concept of marriage. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I have a call for you to vote in favour of this draft. Let's forget who filed this bill or whose election promise it was. We must all serve the Estonian people in such a way as not to tear them apart on the basis of fundamental cultural values, but to build bridges. There is no reason to be afraid if there is a response to this, too, that is the voice of the people and the input to us here in the Riigikogu as well as to society as a whole, on how to deal with the concept of marriage. If the referendum were... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U336	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U337	...made in 2014, it would have been none today. If it had not been for this humiliation of your country, it would have been without these embarrassing, crazy proposals, would have been without the Riigikogu mocking, would have been without the ridicule of your people. All that would have been gone. Unfortunately, we cannot bring back the past, but we can correct the mistakes made in the past. So, once again, let us vote in favour of this bill and begin to recreate the deep wound that was created in our society in 2014 by the Cohabitation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U338	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U339	Thank you, good Chairman! Good guardians of the Republic, keepers, guardians, if such a beautiful Estonian word already exists! I'd start with the lines of poetry: "You first met me, my love, at your own funeral. Because the passion of the moment overcame me. " Estonia's first necrophilic poem line. But what if there is no real desire to marry or marry, and how can we actually know whether the other side is saying yes in front of the altar? My father taught me that every woman you've been with for a long time deserves to be taken to the altar. It's a beautiful moment. And he also taught me that the sooner you get married, the sooner you get divorced, and the sooner you get remarried. In this second teaching, my father himself was withering to do so, and neither have I been otherwise in this regard, so far I am still married. For me, marriage is a rather complicated and difficult process. This is one big and constant compromise. And I think that all of us who have contributed very much to marriage have given up our other benefits, we believe that we have the right to defend this term'marriage'. Just as MCs, or motorcycling clubs, have the right to say which clubs are MCs and which are not. In the same way, student corps have the right to say which corporations are fraternities and which are simply student associations or student associations. It is also right for political parties to say from where onwards the party begins, how many members it should have or how little [could] be. We're talking about marriage today. For some reason, we believe that the law on marriage does not need protection but needs change. But where? Article 2 of the [Family Act] states that at this point marriage between blood relatives is prohibited: brother and sister, half brother and half sister cannot be married. Everyone quotes Jüri Adams, but in an extremely wrong way. Jüri Adams said that no one imagined in 1992 that the constitution should be written that marriage was a union between a man and a woman. Similarly, no one thought to write that after the morning the day and after the day would come, and then the night would come. Just like I'm not gonna say sorority! Filiae Patriae, who might be one of them, will not be able to tell us how we here, the people of the people, should deal with the family. I think the family is a union between a man and a woman. When I'm married, I say I'll hold it. I don't care what the other gatherings are! I call for this bill to be supported and I say to you, good thing, it simply obliges me to do so. It is not really a question of whether we are expanding this concept or not expanding it. It's only a question of power. Power, as such, or the basis of politics, also means that, in a state of affairs, it obliges these fights to fight with dignity. Yeah, we've gone pretty far here, down the line, but it's on everyone's conscience. In the struggle for power, we must be dignified so that we do not break the smallest foundation of society, the family, the family. And, of course, the gay ones who know me. I'm gonna bring you this sad message that you just ended up being a hot topic. In fact, this legalisation of your partnership under the name of marriage does not matter to any political party in Parliament. It was just a pure struggle for power. After the battle with the grenade, I hope that the Reform Party will also leave the vote free for its members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U340	Hanno Pevkur, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U341	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's constitutional backbone is our constitution. The authors of the Constitution foresaw a procedure in which referendums can be made. The referendum is subject to a parliamentary agreement, and this parliamentary agreement means that we will have a referendum when Parliament reaches agreement on it. This consensus also means that it cannot be put to the vote as a matter of trust, or, if it is put to the vote, as a bill before the people, so that the people can decide whether to trust Parliament or not. This referendum has gone badly. Has this process and debate in this House, both in the large Chamber and in the Commission, been beautiful? No, it's not. Has this process and debate been legally correct? No, it's not. This has also been confirmed by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that a number of decisions are against the law. In my opinion, a long time ago, this is no longer a matter of the institution of marriage. The issue has long gone over to the issue of constitutional values and the dignity of referendums. The question is whether Estonia is the rule of law and there are laws that have been written down here, or whether the principle of having power, that right, applies. I understand and am deeply convinced that Estonia is the rule of law and that we have a constitution in force. And we also have the obligation of Members to respect the Constitution. This means, among other things, that our task in this Parliament is to protect all the people of Estonia and to see that the legal space in which we live guarantees these people protection regardless of the language of the person's home, regardless of the colour of his skin or any other characteristic. We must ensure that these people are protected. We must also ensure that Members are protected. And it has been the biggest problem in this process that we have not been able to guarantee the protection of Members. Well, I can count all those Lawyers I've been wrong about. The most important of all is § 100 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which says that the Commission has an obligation to ensure that the authors of the amendments are informed of these amendments. And, of course, also making a list of amendments that have now culminated in over 9000 amendments in one of Amendment 4 which, in principle, makes it impossible to vote on this amendment if it is requested by someone in this Chamber. On these issues, which have been on our table in the Commission and also in this Chamber, it must be borne in mind that these are not proposals. Those are questions. And just as there is a presumption of the right to ask a question, assuming yes, so there is also a presumption of the right to ask a question, assuming no. It is the right of a Member to table his or her amendments and, in the same way, the duty of a Member to pick up those matters which are not in accordance with the law. For example, there is an amendment within Amendment 4 which is not suitable for a referendum because the question cannot be answered yes or no. There are questions inside which can be answered yes and not perhaps the question is asked in butter form. The work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as other committees, is to filter through all the amendments and bring here the result of the Chamber, which can be voted on. Unfortunately, these amendments cannot be voted on. And these trimmings, which have been mistaken in this process, are even more of a house and operating procedure, be it a law on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, which talks about exercising a free mandate, be it a constitution that should allow voting on amendments to see what decision a member of the Riigikogu is making. It is not possible to vote on Amendment 4. If I ask myself if I would like to apologize to the Estonian people for this whole process, yes, I would. No one deserves this process either in the past or in the future. I don't deserve it, but we need to understand that there's a reaction to every reaction. After all, the beginning of this referendum was immediately aroused. We have also seen that there was no agreement within the coalition that this referendum could or should be carried out by listening to the reviews of the coalition talks and to where it was initially intended to be directed. So, ladies and gentlemen, today it is not a question of what is the issue of this referendum. I urge you today to press the red button in the final vote on this decision to signal that, in this form, people's private issues will not be put to a referendum. We are here responsible for the life of the country and the question of state life, even if it is a matter of other state life, should be directed towards increasing people's cohesion and achieving national objectives. In other words, if we want to put something into the referendum, let us find a common reason for this and let us put it, but let us not start a national debate about who can form a family. Good friends! There are still many reasons I would like to talk about or read about, but it is important that we understand that this process as a whole has not been nice. And there's only one way to go back to normal. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U342	Valdo Randpere, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U343	Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a long talk about how many and how stupid the opposition ambassadors asked questions. In the meantime, almost a tear came to my eye when I listened to the Commission's waitress. It was such a shame to hear him torture the poor man with foolish questions, none of which addressed marriage. So I took an interest in my questions and looked at them. Some of them. Should divorce be prohibited in Estonia? Should relations outside marriage be banned in Estonia? Should abortion be prohibited? Should marriage be prohibited in Estonia? Should adoption be prohibited in Estonia? Which of these questions is unrelated to marriage? However, none of them reached a hearing in the Commission or in any way a compartmentalisation, and they did not get to the vote here today in any other way than in this horrible package. There are so many different questions that no one can really answer either yes or no, because there are no sides for some, but no choice can be made. That was the stupidest part of the process. It's going to be such a stupid process of ignoring all the standards, and then they say that we can't sort them out anyway. How, then, can you expect opposition ambassadors to come and ask only reasonable questions? Stupid bill. Where's the logic? By the way, I had one very good question. I agree that this is not directly related to marriage, but a brilliant question, even that did not deserve any attention: should public money be used to renovate private estates? Excellent question. I believe that the Estonian people have the right to respond to this. Unfortunately, that was not the case. But we are now talking about the fact that the Reform Party and the members of the Reform Party, not one of them, could not present any of their amendments to the Commission. When we listened to the Commission's presentation, what was the reason? The reason was that on the first day, reform parties were invited, they showed up, but they weren't allowed to talk. The other day they were called, they came, but they weren't allowed to speak again. And then came this infamous Saturday, when the Reform Party people were offered time, but they didn't show up. But why, I ask. Just because Friday night we went out with the knowledge that there wouldn't be any hearing on Saturday for reform parties. " By the end of the evening only the social democrats had been heard. Reform partyers could not explain their proposals for five minutes. According to the Polish forest, there is no plan to listen to reform parties today (today, i.e. Saturday) and after the election of the President, it is hoped to go straight to the decisions on how to send the draft to the Riigikogu. "We saw that they had only an obstructional desire, which was clear from the beginning, but we gave them a chance. They have no desire to explain," said the Half Office after the hearing." And then those reform parties who can read, and fortunately everyone in the Reform Party, read from Postimees that they are not needed, are not invited here on Saturday to present their amendments. 10.23 that morning, the coalition's mind suddenly changed. Probably someone in the coalition said that, damn it, don't mess around like that, so we're about to vote on procedural questions and make procedural decisions, try to even pretend to listen. 10.23 Saturday morning an e-mail was sent to reform parties who had been present for two days, waited and had not received the floor. And then people are surprised. Sincerely surprised, they try to at least pretend and act about the fact that people don't show up at 10:23 in the morning, an hour before the beginning of the Commission meeting, do not open their computers and don't realize that God, I have to rush to Teams or show up right now. That day we had to come to Teams. By the way, a separate bull went off at the Teams, I'll be honest. Anti, wherever you are, you may have a lot of good qualities, but the ability to use a computer is not one of them. That was pathetic. First, a configuration was made for Teams on Anti's order, so the meeting manager could turn everything off, microphones, cameras to turn everything off without the participant being able to open it. The problem was, since this configuration was used here for the first time, somewhere, a little bit over the top. The meeting manager could not open this microphone to the participants anymore. Worse still, the chairman of the meeting always forgot to open his microphone. We saw his picture on the screen, his mouth moved, there was no voice. I always felt like I had a stroke, I could see something, I couldn't hear anything, I don't understand. And then he pretends sometimes or he doesn't know that, Kaja Kallas, try to talk, I'll open your microphone. Pushes a button, nothing happens. Then he says, "Echo, you push your hand up! " The echo puts its hand up. Pressing a button again, still the microphone won't open. I had my hand up from the beginning of the meeting, and I never got a word, never got an offer. And then we got bored and said, "Damn it, what are we pretending to be attending a meeting that isn't really happening for us?" The coalition ambassadors could speak, they could open the microphones, the opposition ambassadors just shut their mouths. That's not the way it should be. And that last thing. Everyone here again is so genuinely frustrated. Come on, come on, come on! Do you really think there are so many more people who believe in your fake sincerity? You're talking about how you can't ask all kinds of questions about constitutional issues. The Reform Party has not made any proposals to do anything. We have proposed to ask you something. On 7 March 2019 a journalist in Tartu Postimees wrote: "The authors should have the courage to ask. It's also simplified. Even when they are at risk of being ridiculed. We should not be afraid of stupid questions, because sometimes there is no alternative to receiving important information. But we should be afraid of foolish answers. Especially from politicians. " Thank you! That's all I have to say to you. But vote against this shit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U344	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U345	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The word "family" is not exactly stated in the law. We have managed so far that neither the Constitution nor the Family Law have precisely defined the concept of family, and we will continue to do so. You don't have to define it exactly. For all of us, family means exactly what it means in our family. It's a very personal part of our being, our relationships, and our way of life. And the law doesn't always have to dictate everything to us, the least of which is our family. But one thing is certain: a family cannot be put to a referendum. Love cannot be put to a referendum. This is not a matter of state life. This is our inheritance, our closest and most private part that we all have. We've reached a point where we can't go any further. There are heated views on both the left and right sides of this hall. But there's still a broad river between us. Now it's time to start building bridges across this river. And love is what shows the way. I don't want to shout, shout, shout back, or read an epistle on one side or on the other. It is time to build new bridges and find a common section because the old bridges no longer carry. I would like to end with the words set out by those who do this better than I do in order to convey what lies between the lines that touch hearts and create new light. I've come to this hall as an envoy of love, and pretty soon I'm probably going to go. I want to go with words that will help us touch our heart and find the right button today, just as your heart calls for a vote. It's not a group order, it's your heart. And if you don't want to go without a vote, nothing's broken. But vote with a clean heart! To give it power, I want to finish with Hando Runnel's words and add Doris Kareva's. Can I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U346	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U347	"Who said: love? Or was there a delusion? Whoever dared to say, take three steps forward! How someone could have slipped the tongue At the simple end of such a complicated game? Who dared say what was taboo? He must have seen and heard that, like Lightning would be a flash, everything would be dead quiet. Who said "love"? Tsurr, get out of the game!" "Maybe love is the ocean. I don't know if I can measure it. I'm standing on this side of the bank, you're standing there. And love is gonna blow in the meantime. Alas, a calamity ahead of us is the ocean, but there is no oar, but there is no aerial plan, and no bridge, no ship in the water, is alone in endless, is love in front of us." Thank you, good members of the Riigikogu. After these long debates and those days, we will now get to the vote. And please vote with love! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U348	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U349	Ladies and gentlemen, I must first respond to some of the arguments made by Riigikogu member Henn Põljaas and Mart Helme, because they have been wrong and, in some cases, I would also like to discuss a little. Henn Põllaas spoke about the fact that most people in Estonia want a marriage referendum. That is not true, all the autumn polls at a time when the discussion on this topic had already become quite hot in society have shown that most respondents do not consider a marriage referendum to be necessary. They think that Estonia does not need it, and that is a fact. Secondly, Mart Helme accused many of us of being afraid to ask the people. But the people have said there's no need to ask. The people have responded according to completely decent studies: we do not want such a referendum. Why do you force it? We can speculate on this, we have been discussing this for a long time. I stick to my opinion that this is your cynical political calculation, not the desire to actually find the maximum common part of society, which should be the primary responsibility of one parliament, the Estonian Riigikogu. Henn Põljaas also claimed that the Social Democratic Party has organised a petition for equality of marriage. I don't want to decorate myself or other social democrats with foreign feathers. This petition was initiated by the Green Party. Yes, very many Social Democrats have joined it and we support it as a party because we really do not know how to answer the question of how it can be that, if everyone should have equal rights, two adults who are able to work have been discriminated against by their sex, that is, they do not have the opportunity to get married. This does not apply to a democratic and respectful state of human rights, and the Social Democrats, who stand for equal rights and equal opportunities, would like these rights to be extended to all. I'd like to have a little more discussion with Henn Põllamaa. He made one point that I have heard a lot in these discussions: he said that two people of the same sex could not get married because they could not have children. First of all, it's a lie. Open your eyes, people of the same sex will have children. That's a fact. Secondly, the interpretation of Henn Põllea will lead us sooner or later to the fact that we should organise a marriage referendum or take a decision that only people of reproductive age can get married. Perhaps marriage, as a symbolic act, doesn't mean anything anymore, but the essence of it is that if you have children, you can get married, and if you don't, you can't. That is why, for example, some of the social democratic issues [of amendments] were linked to the number of children in the family. Yes, as an opposition, we learned a lesson from this and, as members of the Riigikogu, we learned that in politics irony is always a very questionable weapon, because as a result of a skilful information operation, as we have seen, it can turn against you. This is definitely where, as opposition politicians, we all have something to learn today, I think. Surely this could also happen to coalition politicians. But one thing that all those who are at some point in the coalition and are about to exercise majority power should definitely learn... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U350	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U351	...is that democracy and the will of the majority will only work if the fundamental principle of democracy is accepted. Most can only rule if he strictly abides by the rules, in this case by the law. Otherwise, there will be no more democracy. I very much hope that we have gained this wisdom in this process. That is why it is necessary for the minority, if necessary, not for the opposition, but for those who are currently in the minority in society, one or the other, to call for help: please listen to us, please, we will talk and we will enter into compromises, instead of the majority simply rolling one hundred percent of our will. I am glad that this process, despite everything, although it was in many ways embarrassing for many, certainly difficult, both on one side and on the other, will receive its culmination today, on 13 January. If this had happened as most initially wanted or as the EKRE originally wanted [the second reading to be] on 11 January, then the Riigikogu would probably have had a slightly different force ratio. Very close, but most of it probably would have rolled over. Today I have reason to hope that the situation has changed, that empathy has increased, that the consequences of my decision will be understood. Maybe for strange reasons, but in any case, we've come to this situation today. So there's hope in me. Since very much has been said about Christian values in this discussion, the church has been strongly brought to this discussion when we are talking about marriage, a place from the book of books came to my mind in this regard. I think I'll let myself remember a little sentiment here. From time to time, maybe when a vampire takes over, and it feels like I'm not being allowed to do what I think is right, it makes sense to remember that. This is the place of Luke's Gospel, where Jesus'executioners have arrived with him, which is called Mount Golgotha, and they crucify Jesus with two national criminals, one on his right hand and the other on his left. And Jesus says, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. I'm hoping there'll be more in this room today who know what they're doing. And I have the hope that today we will make a decision with which Estonia will be able to proceed somewhat more friendlyly, with smaller fears and with more caringness. The Social Democrats call on you to vote against this draft decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U352	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the people, servants of the people! I'm going back several years, probably 2014 when this whole cohabitation act thing took place here in the Riigikogu. With regard to the same process, we are actually discussing this referendum today. The [in 2014] demonstration was very crowded. I remember getting into an argument somewhere near the Russian church with a young man wearing a rainbow flag. I can't tell you if he was at this demonstration of love organised by the foundation for the protection of family and traditions, or for some other reason, but I was arguing with him, and at one point I asked what was missing right now, I don't remember the exact words or what was the purpose or what he wanted. We were arguing, and at one point he told me that he would be pleased when the same rainbow flag was flying in the Tall Hermann Tower. Why was I talking about this cohabitation law, and why did I tell the story? I think this referendum is absolutely necessary. But first, I'm gonna dodge Indrek Saare for a second, he was talking about the equality of marriage. Mr. Saar was talking about the equality of marriage. This is a strange and absurd concept in itself, because what is this complete and final equality of marriage? Well, in the name of marriage equality, same-sex relationships are legalized. But right now, there's an unequal situation for those who want to have a multiple marriage, for those who wait. Where are we finally going with this? Here are some other examples. One member of the Reform Party was concerned about the possibility of marrying the dead in his draft amendments. Where do we end up? Where is the final marriage equality? No one has answered that. I think they're doing the wrong thing here. It is not equality that is needed on this issue, it is the balance that is needed. There is a need to find a balance point in society. Estonian society is broken up on this subject, and I want a balance to be sought here, rather than an absurd equality of marriage that cannot be achieved anyway. It's not real. The referendum is, in my opinion, the best tool for finding this balance in society. It's like scales: let's consider where Estonian society is on this issue. Let us find peace and get this subject off these more burning social issues for a while. That is why I call on good representatives of the people to give the Estonian people a voice in the meantime. We ask the Estonian people where this balance point is now in society and what the Estonian people think. Please support this marriage referendum! Please support balanced Estonian society! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U354	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U355	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We're discussing the matter of marriage. To me, marriage is associated with such things as love, caring, and trust. Such emotions could also be at the forefront when we talk about these [marriage related] things. I feel very strong emotions in this Chamber, but unfortunately they have nothing to do with love, caring or trust. I don't think any of us are malicious. Together and individually, we all want to find fair solutions to important problems. But, unfortunately, we're all spinning on a carousel of hate, which maybe a lot of us didn't want to walk into. It began, like many others, with bad results of good will. The adoption of the Cohabitation Act gave some people who had so far been on the outside equal rights to others. Perhaps the Cohabitation Act gave some or even a few dozen people a solution to the problem. But to hundreds of thousands of Estonians, it was offensive. It made me angry. This made it feel that the majority of the Riigikogu ran over them strictly. There are often very simple laws in society, Newton's laws. But they're often even stronger. A counterattack can be stronger than a blow. And what we're discussing right now, this marriage referendum, is a setback. We heard that this problem was finally solved when we adopted this law. It's not like that. Ladies and gentlemen, this will only boost this carousel of hate. With what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we wrote a very shameful page in the history of the Riigikogu and Estonian political culture. Both the opposition and the coalition did so. The opposition acted as if they were planning to remain in the opposition forever: they formed an excellent weapon of obstruction that could not legally be resisted. But the coalition didn't owe it and ran over it. I don't think anyone will be happy with the result we've achieved. If we make any kind of decision, we're all based on some kind of ethical standards. They're different. But, in my opinion, the politician must, above all, be guided by the ethics of 'consecentialism'. How good he is and how righteous his principles are does not matter if the results are wrong. If an engineer is a great person and he's doing something right, but the bridge collapses and people die, he did it wrong. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U356	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U357	Thank you. We all made mistakes, and the results are bad. This process, which began with the adoption of the Cohabitation Act, has polarised society to a very significant extent, and this process is now continuing. Let me give you an example. Two of my good acquaintances had this conversation. One said it was bullshit, after all, no one in Estonia is doing a homo-propaganda. The other said, "How can I not do it?" SAPTK and EKRE do homopropaganda all the time, because they're looking everywhere for it, and then some find it. Let's look at the results of the polls. Before the start of this referendum process, about 20% of those interviewed in Estonia were in favour of the same-sex marriage. When we look at the last polls, it was 35%. So this homopropaganda works. But the opposite propaganda also works. As a scientist, I know that it is often harder to formulate the right question than to find an answer to it. And the formulation of the right question is important. If we have the wrong question, we cannot give the right answer. That's why I'm not voting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U358	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U359	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U360	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U361	Life is not such a black and white, as I said on the question, that the referendum is good, the obstruction is bad. For some reason, in all other areas, we understand this: we are talking about individual learning paths in education, patient-centred healthcare, a flexible country that must be close to the citizen and take account of differences. But in this Chamber the whole 288 procedures of this draft decision have been such a shallow, single-table, uniform treatment. As our ambassadors, we still have to understand that yes, sometimes we have to know the difference between humor and humor, we have to be able to identify substantive alternatives. Yes, it is also important to understand what an obstruction is, to understand the rules of procedure and to respect the law, but it is also very important to understand the opposite and to seek a compromise, to distinguish what is essential from what is irrelevant. What is important, for example, is that the law must be complied with; it must also be complied with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But to make moral assessments, for example, of the amendments that have been tabled and of the questions that have been asked, they can be given, but that is not the basis on which we can lead the procedure. Not to mention threats to change the Home and Working Procedures Act or to shut someone's mouth. This is not the way in which any topic in this house can be dealt with, any kind of bill to be dealt with. There has been a great deal of talk here today about specific amendments in questions and answers and speeches. I think that the very important skill of this procedure is to distinguish when it is necessary to talk about individual amendments and when it is possible to look at the amendments as a package and talk about the purpose of this package. For example, as an amendment, I actually wanted to ask the question 'Can an Estonian support Elfyn Evans?'. But it seemed that it was too cryptic a question, it did not even pass through the sieve of our group, it did not become an amendment. But I thought I was completely serious. Since we talk a lot about what is right life or what is right choices in this life, it may really seem strange, disturbing or wrong to the rally buddies that in a situation where Rally Estonia competes, thank you, someone in this country is holding their thumbs to Evans. Maybe there wasn't a person like that, but maybe there were a lot of them, they just don't have the guts to admit it. But I don't want to deny that there may be different preferences about who wins Rally Estonia. Similarly, there is an example of writing with the left hand, or of butter or oatmeal in the case of cinnamon. I don't eat oatmeal with cinnamon or cinnamon, but what others do, how others cook their breakfast is not up to me. And in the same way, when it comes to man's decisions to live with or marry someone, there could be something that we, as legislators, do not write down here within the framework of this draft referendum that was discussed. So the opinions on the 288 draft amendments, on life in general, may be different in this Chamber and in the Commission, but Parliament is in fact a place of seeking compromise. And the parliamentary debate, including the hearing of all those who have tabled amendments, is the way to a solution. Therefore, no matter how strange the amendments seem, there may be a deep point behind them, and the MP may want to explain it. The procedure now held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. What left me very distracted is still a misunderstanding about the role of the Commission. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not a place of quick compliance with the Coalition Agreement. If the instrument is the decision of the Riigikogu, then it must be the wish of the members of the Riigikogu, which is dealt with by law and during which the proceedings can express their dissatisfaction and at least be heard. The fact that members of the Riigikogu have very different opinions about the referendum on marriage, and the complexity of the proceedings, was known in advance and should have been taken into account when planning the work of the committee. These agreements on how the draft will be dealt with, what this process will look like could be concluded before the deadline for tabling amendments is reached. It is the responsibility of the Riigikogu, with its decision, to refer only to a question that is clear about the legal consequences of the answers given and for which a referendum is necessary. The Riigikogu also has the responsibility to mitigate social tensions. The conflicting situation that we had during the Commission's discussions shows that, in fact, this social responsibility and its bearing are not understood and that practical tasks cannot be dealt with. In conclusion, draft decision 288 has arrived in this Chamber in violation of the law and cannot be supported, so please vote against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U362	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U363	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it strange that we are now discussing this question for hours and hours at a late hour. Ladies and gentlemen of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, this war has been abolished. The Social Democrats and the Reform Party won, this poll won't come. There is no point in spending time, wasting Parliament's time, as you like to talk. In the process of handling this bill, the law was completely broken. Clearly and unambiguously, undisputedly violated the law, cruelly. You need to understand one thing, all those who voted today to confirm the Bureau's decision that protests will not be taken into account: even if the bill is presented in the future with 10,000 or 100,000 stupid proposals, somebody thinks it's stupid, all of them deserve to be heard. I'll give you just one example. Among my proposals were a number of those concerning Porto Franco. A week ago, it could have been said that this is an irrelevant issue and why we are dealing with it. But I do not think anyone today would say that the issue of Porto Franco is an irrelevant issue in Estonian society. So it was very foresighted of me. People's polls, public involvement, direct democracy, that's a good thing. However, there is no need for family law issues in Estonia to do so. Unlike Latvia and, unlike Lithuania, our constitution does not say whether marriage is between a man and a woman. He says marriage is just under the protection of the Constitution. We do not need to change the Constitution. A simple majority of the votes in this Chamber is sufficient to amend the family law; even a majority of the votes in the composition is not needed. Family law issues are the competence of the assembly, the Riigikogu, and there must be consensus on these matters in this Chamber. I'm sure what's called marriage equality, or the opportunity to marry everyone, will come. It's definitely coming. Just as this poll failed, and I was sure it would fail, so will marriage equality. Comrades from the EKRE, accept this! Estonia is definitely moving towards equal treatment for all people, because all people are equal. But now about what our good colleague Mikhail Lotman said: everyone made mistakes. Didn't do everything. Not all our colleagues made mistakes. Some of the amendments were very constructive; some were made with very constructive speeches by the Commission. I'm willing to admit that I definitely made mistakes. A lot of people made mistakes. The institutions have not only damaged the reputation of the Riigikogu, but the church has also been damaged during this process. The institution of marriage has also been damaged during this process. And I guess that's the responsibility of the initiators of the draft decision. It is very strange that in the government that is now leaving office for one party, the question was a red line, a fundamental thing: if it does not come, we will leave the government. I ask when will a government come to power in Estonia, where for someone the red line is the size of our pensions? When will a government come to power in Estonia, where the red line is helping disabled children, children with special needs? When will a government come into power in Estonia, whose red line is our people's wages, jobs or our economy? When will such a government come? When will any of these fundamental lines be drawn? Let us vote down this draft decision today and then focus on putting our country in order. The Coronary Crisis and the Economy [are to be dealt with]. It is ridiculous that we have devoted so much time, lyrics and energy to the subject of [abielureferendum], and with it we have divided society. Let's move on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U364	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U365	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Much has already been said on this subject today, both in the round of procedural questions when it comes to the legality of this draft procedure and now in the context of the debate on this item. My position on this issue is, of course, well known to everyone: this referendum is unnecessary and as such does not deserve further proceedings, nor did it deserve in December. In this case, too, most people in Estonia do not consider this necessary and, frankly, in a situation where there is a lot of important issues and problems to be solved, what is being put before us is an unacceptable substitution action. In the case of the undoubtedly moving national populist power of the opposition, the fact that, together with this draft, they also land in the opposition bears some signicant significance. I guess it's their bread number to replace solving real problems with empty marksmen that can pick up some sort of theme, talk about how badly everyone wants it, and then start to resent reasonable people who say why you're bringing this shit up here, and then use the arguments that there's a nation behind and behind them and on top and under them. Retorically, this is undoubtedly a powerful argument, but the content does not suffer criticism. However, compared to what he was in December, this issue has become very quickly much more fundamental to me in relation to what is another important core of national populism, the course of action of regular procedures and the dismantling of institutions. We have seen this in these two years, when the people of Estonia have suffered the words and deeds of these people. [We have seen] how attempts have been made to influence the judiciary, how journalists have been tried to muzzle and how many institutes of free society have been humiliated. And during the procedure for this draft, it reached the Riigikogu. In the parliamentary rule of law, Parliament makes laws in accordance with the Constitution and other laws, as stated in § 3 of the Constitution. This means that Parliament's own procedure must be legal, and not just to set an example for the rest of the people, although it is also undoubtedly important, because when representatives of the people interpret the requirement to apply the law selectively, it is strange to demand it from the citizens and to expect them to comply with all the rules that these same legislators adopt. But even more importantly, the rules for the adoption of laws protect Estonian citizens from the arbitrary use of state power. This is also a constitutional rule, and this is also the purpose of the same legislation of the Riigikogu. I am the third member of the Riigikogu, far from having the longest period, but such a hog has not been done here during this period and, in fact, as has been the case today during the debate on procedural matters, has never been done. Of course, it is possible to give examples of the addition of amendments that have been agreed upon, but that has been done in such a way that the rights of any member of the Riigikogu have not been violated. Indeed, there have been agreements that are not in conformity with the word of the law to link amendments relating to the substance of the various initiators, but [this has taken place] with the consent of their authors. This unprecedented situation, where the members of the Riigikogu require that, in accordance with § 102 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Act of the Riigikogu, an amendment can be voted in a large hall, and is simply not allowed, passed over, has not been before. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U366	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U367	Indeed, to justify it by seeing that we have a very important decision here, and it needs to be made, and that is why the rules can be broken, that is the concept of the rule of law that we have not seen so far. In this regard, the problem and the risk is that if such a precedent goes through, there is no reason why the other rules of the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, which guarantee equal right of members of the Riigikogu to participate in the drafting of legislation, could not violate the law in the same way by simply pointing out that we have a majority. The chairman of the committee said at the committee meeting, where I had the honour of being present, that democracy is the power of the majority. Unfortunately, he has a very limited understanding of the principle of democracy. Liberal democracy in the rule of law means that the majority really has the right to make decisions, but only within the framework of the law. A voice majority doesn't allow you to do anything, anything, anytime. This is a fundamental principle of democratic rule of law and this principle has been violated. Moreover, regrettably also the majority of the Riigikogu's board, rather than looking for a common language, to allow a better parliamentary debate, to try to agree on this difficult political situation and to seek a compromise, actually went off with the same majority, as we saw today in procedural matters. And it's dangerous as a precedent. I hope that this is one of those issues which, now being discussed considerably, convinces colleagues today to reject this draft. This bill is illegal in this procedure, it cannot be called otherwise. The list of amendments tabled by the committee in the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu is illegal. There should be no such paper here and the fact that the President of the sitting has promised to deal with it is unprecedented and also unacceptable. Consequently, I hope that we will reject this draft and, together with it, we will stop dealing with this issue, at least in the foreseeable future, and focus on those issues that are really important for the present and future of the Estonian state and people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U368	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U369	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good fellows! I have always thought that people's opinions should be asked, studied, considered in politics. The opinion of the people does not need to be known about the important issues that have already been resolved in the law. Rather, we should ask about those that have not yet been resolved. In such a case, the opinion would be mandatory in accordance with the Constitution, i.e. Parliament. According to the draft currently under way, it is proposed to hold a referendum after a few decades on a matter which is already explicitly stated in the law. The people are asked whether we have a family law, § 1, according to which a marriage is concluded between a man and a woman, and § 10, according to which marriage is negligible if it is concluded by persons of the same sex. Around 60% of voters support this view, as polls show. Therefore, there is no majority in this Parliament, as was the case in the previous Parliament, who would like to change these points of law. I consider the referendum planned for April, not only for the waste of money, but also for the costs of a referendum of EUR 1.7 million, but also for the fraud of the people. After all, as a result of the vote, nothing would change in the law currently in force if there were neither a yes nor a no response, and a referendum as a very important democratic procedure would be mistreated and ridiculed. I tabled 20 amendments to the draft referendum, wishing to draw the attention of the government coalition to the issues in which it would certainly be necessary to get the opinion of the people and regularise it urgently. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where I was given five minutes to clarify 20 substantive and well-founded proposals in the social field, I was able to protect only two of them. For example, should a nursing home be available to the elderly for a pension? Dear friends, if we are voting against this draft now, we will have EUR 1.7 million in extra money in the budget, which will not be used for this referendum, and with which we can solve problems such as family care, the situation of the elderly, the lack of nurses, the rapid suspension of the kroon virus, the increase in the number of tests or the purchase of vaccines. These are the issues that Parliament should discuss, debate and talk about, even until late hours of the evening. Actually, that's what people expect from us. I thank and hope that this bill will be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U370	Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that there is no further wish for negotiation. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U371	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask you to vote on the second amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U372	Let's vote. Does Siim Pohlak have a procedural proposal or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U373	No, procedural. The EKRE Group would like to take a break of 10 minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U374	Thank you. Ten minutes break!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U375	Honourable Riigikogu! I shall put to the vote Amendment 2. How? [[The room will be explained.]] Yeah, the intermission's gonna be another 15 seconds. Now, the intermission is over and I will put to the vote Amendment 2 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U376	There are 11 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, against 49. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 3 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. This proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with § 16 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Proposal No 4 has been submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, members of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt, Raimond Kaljulaid, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Imre Sooäär, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Korobeinik, Annely Akkermann, Aivar Sõerd, Signe Riisalo, Yoko Alender, Hele Everaus, Jüri Jaanson, Maris Lauri, Mart Võlleva, Erki Keldo, Liina Kersna, Andres Sut, Johannes Kert, Toomas Kivimägi, Heiki Kranich, Urmas Kruuse, Ants Laaneots, Kalle Laanet, Kristen Michal, Marko Mihkelson, Madis Milling, Keit Pentus-Rosimnus, Valdo Randpere, Eerik-Niles Krossssss, Andrus Seeme, Kristina Šmikun-Väeera Tiidu, Urve and Vilja Kõi, Marki, Marki, Marki, Marki, Vilis, Marki, Marki, Marki, Marki, Vili, Tõik, Tim, Tõik, Tõik, Tõik, Tõik, Tõik, Tõik. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U377	Thank you! Previously, the Social Democratic Party Group has withdrawn part of the amendments incorporated into this fourth amendment. As President, could you explain what this amendment now looks like?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U378	The Social Democratic Party Group has submitted to the Riigikogu Bureau a proposal to withdraw amendments 4.1 and 4.2. To be honest, at the moment, I cannot say whether the application submitted to the Bureau to withdraw it at all applies, because the matter has been dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I do not think that this proposal has reached that point. Let's... Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U379	Thank you. Withdrawal of amendments shall be possible before the vote. This is the right of the author of the amendment; this proposal does not have to be submitted to the commission. I do not know whether it has to be submitted to the Bureau or to the President, but it has been presented correctly in this sitting. This issue should still be resolved in the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U380	All right, let's take this into account. All the remaining points of this proposal are inside and these two have gone out. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U381	Thank you! That is the correct interpretation that these amendments do not exist in this major position. But now that you have recognised it, it means that there is an amendment before us that has not, in fact, been discussed by the Steering Committee. This means that this amendment, which remains after the two amendments have been withdrawn from it, has not actually been voted by the commission, so we do not really have the conviction that this amendment has even two votes. How do we resolve this illegal situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U382	Thank you. It's very nice if you're creating illegal situations yourself here. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] This is a great honour for a member of the Riigikogu. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U383	Thank you, Mr President. Is it not the case that we are currently voting on an amendment, which is a whole, as set out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? It is nice to know that the Social Democrats are withdrawing their amendment, but that does not change the already bound amendment, which we are voting on, made by the Commission. So I have the proposal that we vote on this amendment in exactly the form it came out of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and if the Social Democrats wish to withdraw something, it will go to the protocol and they can withdraw it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U384	Yes, I fully agree with this proposal. But Kaja Kallas would like a word, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U385	Thank you. We had exactly the same argument in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I asked the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Anti Polandmets, that, since no one has tabled such an amendment, can we consider it to be a proposal made by this commission, because, as we know, according to Article 99 of the [Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu], political groups, committees and Riigikogu Members can propose amendments. No one has made such an amendment as we have in the vote. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said that no, this is not the proposal of the commission, it is simply a set of amendments. In other words, none of us have made such an amendment and has done so by the lead committee. What exactly are we voting on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U386	Thank you. We will vote on the amendments sent by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U387	Thank you! Mr Seeder did a good test, but, unfortunately, both positions cannot be correct at the same time, Mr President of the sitting. If two amendments have been withdrawn from the table of amendments, this is a completely different amendment. According to the text you read before us, this is not an amendment from the commission and so the chairman of the commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, assured us that this is not a proposal from the commission, but an illegal set of existing amendments. Both positions cannot be correct at the same time. Are we going to vote on an amendment on the list of amendments, or are we going to vote on what is on the list of amendments without these two withdrawn amendments? I believe your interpretation was very correct. Indeed, the initiator of the amendment has the right to withdraw the proposal and it has been withdrawn. But now the next question arises: in fact, we can no longer deal with this amendment because two amendments have been withdrawn from the collection. And the reason is very simple: this is the absurdity that you and Helir-Valdor Seeder and most of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have created by allowing this illegal bounty to be read here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U388	Thank you. I do not want to believe in your claim that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would have said that this is a set of illegal amendments. In this Chamber, however, we are voting on the amendments that have passed the Commission procedure and which the Commission has sent to this Chamber. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U389	Thank you, good manager. It is good to hear Mr Evgeni's scholastic argument. But my question is this: if you put a couple of drops of slug fuel in the tank, doesn't that fuel remain a slug fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U390	Yes, thank you! Probably will. I understand that allegory you're making out here as a parallel. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U391	It is a pleasure that you understood this allegory, but try to answer questions about the law. Since this is the legal absurdity created by the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which you and Mr Seedri have approved, there is not much more to discuss here. But just try to set a precedent for the future, perhaps also for court proceedings, which you will now put to the vote. Are 4.1 and 4.2 in this collection or are they not? Let's vote. If you've gone this far by breaking the law, I guess you don't have a place to back off.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U392	Thank you. Yes, it is particularly nice to talk about the violation of the law in the light of the decision you made here today, rejecting the decision of the board that condemned the violations of the law. But, as I said, we are voting on the amendment in the form that it has come to this Chamber from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U393	Thank you. I say, for the sake of the record, that I have been appointed author of this proposal, but I have not made any such proposals, not to mention many, and I do not understand this vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U394	There's nothing we can do about it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Everyone has a different understanding, but here we are talking about Amendment 4 from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U395	Thank you. Did I understand correctly your explanation that you do not allow the request made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to withdraw the two amendments that I have tabled? Do you not give the Riigikogu members the opportunity to realise, in this case, the right of the political group to withdraw their proposed amendment from the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U396	No, of course I will not prohibit any member of the Riigikogu from doing anything. But we are currently discussing the proposals received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the proposals they have sent to this Chamber. The Management Board has not adopted any proposals from members of the Riigikogu or from political groups. They have also been dealt with in particular by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The readmission application should probably also have been submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U397	Now you're really starting to fuck up. The President of the sitting has received a complete legal request. Just as it is possible to withdraw a draft from the procedure at any time, there is no need to submit a request to the Commission, and the Commission does not have to meet when the initiator says that he will withdraw the draft, the draft has been withdrawn and that is all, so are the amendments. The application has been lawfully handed over to the President of the sitting. If you reject it, please indicate why you are doing it, or accept it, and then we will vote on the amendment in a completely different form.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U398	Thank you. We have an amendment on the table that has come from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But since this is a rather unprecedented issue at the moment, I think it will be useful if we take a short break and the board decides how best to do it. So I'm gonna announce the board break for 10 minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U399	Break's over. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us Amendment 4 as amended. In other words, points 4.1 and 4.2, tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group and taken out at their request, have been taken out of this. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U400	Can you please describe what the process is now? I have one suggestion, but in order to do this, I should understand when I can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U401	Thank you. We are currently reviewing the amendments and we have an amended amendment to Amendment 4, on which the lead committee has proposed not to take this into account. Kalle Grünthal... Mr Läänemets, speaking! Does Kalle Grünthal want to give a speech? No, I don't. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U402	Thank you, Mr President. I have tabled 28 very important amendments. I think it would be very important to vote on at least one amendment I have tabled. Please vote on Amendment[ containing the question] "Is Estonia supposed to achieve climate neutrality by 2040?'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U403	Thank you. We are talking about the whole set, as amended by Amendment 4. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U404	Thank you, Mr President. I have tabled an amendment and, if it has received at least two supporting votes in the committee, I have the right to ask for my own amendment to be voted on. Please put the amendment I tabled earlier to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U405	Thank you. We have before us an amendment from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which we have already amended, in line with the wish of the Social Democratic Party, which we have removed from this amendments 4.1 and 4.2. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U406	Thank you. I understand you'd have to take a different approach to this. As everything has been put together in a single package, and since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and you have also called me the author of the amendment, the author of this package, I would ask you to put to the vote the whole amendment that is here as one package.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U407	I shall put to the vote the amended... Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U408	Thank you, Mr President. Before the vote, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party requests an eight-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U409	Eight minutes break. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U410	Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on amended Amendment No 4 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, members of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt, Raimond Kaljulaid, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Imre Sooäär, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Korobeinik, Annely Akkermann, Aivar Sõerd, Signe Riisalo, Yoko Alender, Hele Everaus, Jüri Jaanson, Maris Lauri, Mart Võrklaev, Erkki Keldo, Liina Kersna, Andres Sutt, Johannes Kert, Toomas Kivimägi, Heiki Kranich, Urmas Kruuse, Ants Laaneots, Kalle Laanet, Kristen Michal, Marko Mihkelson, Madis Milling, Keit Pentus-Rosimnusimnus, Valdo Randpere, Heiky Purga, Andrus, Ande Kõe, Kõe, Ande Kõe Kõe, Kõm, Kõmme Kõmi Kõmi Kõmme, Kõmi Kõim, Kõim, Kõim, Kõim, Kõim, Kõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõi Jõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõõ The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and let's vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U411	58 members of the Riigikogu opposed and there were two abstentions, none in favour. The motion has been rejected. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi and Heidy Purga. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Now we have examined the amendments and we can go to the final vote. I shall put to the vote... Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U412	Thank you. Two minutes of recess, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U413	Two minutes break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U414	Break's over. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U415	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I would like to ask for an eight-minute break. The faction of the Centre Party has disappeared somewhere, so we give them a chance to come back.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U416	Thank you. We can take ten minutes in total. Break eight minutes. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please! We're wasting our break. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U417	Thank you. Since you gave the floor, my procedural question is that, since one intermission before the vote was already taken, the possibility of taking the intermission before the vote is entirely lawful, this possibility has been taken advantage of. We do not have the chance, for five breaks, that if we have five political groups, each of them will take another break after the last break has ended. The vote has already been announced, and I ask for a vote without any further procedural obstacles.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U418	Thank you. A total of 10 minutes of break is possible. Since the Centre Party took two minutes, the EKRE Group has an opportunity to take another eight minutes and that was requested. So let's take an eight-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U419	Break's over. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed a final vote of 288 on the draft decision. I will put to the final vote draft 288 of the Riigikogu's decision on the organisation of a referendum on the concept of marriage submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-13_U420	26 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, against 49. The draft was not supported. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] The sitting is adjourned.
