ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U1	Ladies and gentlemen here--and over there on the screen, good morning! I am pleased to welcome you all, and I promise you that the work that I am doing here before you will be fair and impartial. I believe we will have very good cooperation. But today we are dealing with the Tuesday session of the 4th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. And, as usual, at the beginning of the sitting, everyone has the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. So if anyone has a desire to hand over any drafts or inquiries, please give a signal. No, it's not. Then I have a message for you. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the homeowners' support group will be held in this Chamber, and Urmas Reinsalu will be convened. I don't have any more messages to tell you, and that means we're going to the presence check. Check-in!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U2	93 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present today and at the moment there are no 8 members of the Riigikogu, which means that we can start the sitting nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U3	On today's agenda, we have one item: a draft of the Riigikogu decision "Organising a referendum on the direct election of the President of the Republic of Estonia," tabled by Kalle Grünthal, member of the Riigikogu, bearing the number 290. Before we go to this point, let me brief you on how we deal with it. First, the performer has up to 20 minutes for the presentation. We will then hear the presentation of the representative of the commission, as well as for up to 20 minutes. A total of up to two oral questions can be submitted to both rapporteurs. And then the representatives of the political groups can speak during the negotiations. Therefore, the normal procedure for dealing with the draft decision. And now we're going to go over this bill. Mr Kalle Grünthali, member of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U4	Honourable people of Estonia who are taking part in today's draft debate or are watching us live! Today is a crucial day for the Estonian people. I have submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the direct election of the President of the Republic of Estonia, which aims to ask the citizens of the Republic of Estonia whether the President must be elected by the Estonian people. The purpose of the draft is to get the opinion of the people on the question of the election of the President. Unfortunately, according to the current law, the election of the President of the Republic of Estonia has become the sole preserve of the narrow circle. Let me briefly remind you of this process. The election of the President shall take place first in the secret ballot in the Riigikogu and, if the winner is not known in three rounds, two rounds shall be held in the electoral body. This collection consists of members of the Riigikogu and representatives of local government councils. During the last presidential elections in 2016, before the administrative reform, representatives of the electoral body sent 213 municipalities to which 101 members of the Riigikogu were added. There were 334 voters in total. This year, the size of the electoral body is only 208 members: 101 members of the Riigikogu and 107 representatives of local government. The decrease in the number of voters is due to administrative reform, resulting in a number of municipalities joining. Thus, the number of voters has decreased by 126. Another important factor is that the President of the Republic of Estonia should be the uniter and referee of the people who have not received his post as a result of party power games. However, as a result of these games, unfortunately, a situation has arisen where the people are even more distant from the possibility of exercising their rights by talking to the state about important issues of representative democracy. As a result of this situation, it is reasonable and high time to ask the opinion of the people, which is believed in the proposal that the President should be elected by the people. The Institute of Social Studies has carried out a study of values in 2018, according to which it is estimated that three-quarters of all electoral citizens will support the direct election of the President of the Republic of Estonia. Today's Postimees also reflects the opinion of the people on this issue. As of the moment, 68% are in favour of the election of the President by the people, 24% are against and 8% have no opinion. I myself did a little gallup with the same question that has been on Facebook for a day and a half. And the result is that 1683 people have been in favour of it. And more interesting: 1286 has shared it. Anyway, these numbers are very impressive. At the same time, it is not a secret that the entire people of Estonia are not participating in the studies, but a small group of people. It is therefore the utmost need to learn the real opinion of the people, which is based not on research, but on asking the people directly. You shouldn't be afraid of a referendum. For example, Switzerland, where 105 referendums have taken place over the last 12 years, has become the most innovative, educated and one of the most prosperous and happy societies in the world. Now it's the legal side. There have been views that this referendum is against the Constitution. But let's check it out! There is no dispute that, according to § 1 of the Constitution, the supreme authority is a nation. There is also no dispute that, according to § 56 of the Constitution, the highest state power is exercised by the people through citizens with voting rights in two ways: first by election of the Riigikogu and second by referendum. Neither should the fact that according to § 105 of the Constitution, the Riigikogu has the right to put the draft law or other matter of state life into a referendum. The draft I tabled is not a bill; it falls under the category 'other matter of state life'. I would like to see this member of the Riigikogu who claims that the question of whether the President must be elected by the Estonian people is not a matter of state life. Raise your hand, please, so I can respond to it. But I don't see any hands. Further: § 106 of the Constitution states that a referendum cannot be held on matters of budget, taxes, financial obligations of the State, ratification and denunciation of foreign treaties, the establishment and termination of the state of emergency and defence. By the way, the exact same wording is also stated in section 1 of the referendum act, entitled "Questions to be put to the public vote" in paragraph 2. Now I'm going to ask a rhetorical question. Who of the MPs dares to claim that the question of the draft I have put forward, whether the President must be elected by the Estonian people, is to some extent related to the issue of budget, taxes, financial obligations of the state, ratification or denunciation of foreign treaties, establishing or ending the state of emergency or the issue of national defence? For some reason, I am of the opinion that a member of the Riigikogu is not so brave in this Chamber. There is therefore no dispute as to whether the draft I have tabled is in conflict with the Constitution. The Constitution does not prohibit such a question. Now, 33 years ago, in 1988, at the joint Pleenum of the Creative Unions, Heinz Valk asked in this very hall, in the same eloquence: "If the power is in the hands of the people, who will have it? " Isn't it a confession that some members of the Riigikogu are not acting in the interests of the people? The will of the people is to be ignored if it does not coincide with the intentions of the power parties themselves. First and foremost, it is in its own interests. How can this group seriously talk about representing a nation? Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I know that some parties, such as the Reform Party, the Centre Party, the Fatherland, the Social Democrats, have taken a negative stance on this draft, motivating it by the fact that the time is not yet ripe, that the draft is unconstitutional, that the date in the draft does not fit, etc., etc. I fully accept the views of these parties, and let us keep it that way. Well, if you don't mind, then. I am not going to inflame the thinking and positions of the parties in any way; there is no result in this anyway. But here's a big "but." And as Mart Helme, a member of our party, said: everything that is before "but" is after "but" irrelevant. The thing is, behind an impenetrable wall called a party, people are still hiding. These are members of the Riigikogu, representatives of the people, elected by the people at last to live up to the promises they made before the elections. I recall, good members of the Riigikogu, that you were elected to the Riigikogu not by a party, but by the people. Then why are you hiding behind this anonymous wall called the party? It is time to strike our backs straight and act in harmony with our conscience and pay our debt to the people. I would remind you that every member of the Riigikogu has a free mandate. For those who do not remember, I recall that § 17 (1) of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu states: "The member of the Riigikogu is independent. He carries out the duties of a representative of the people in accordance with the Constitution, the laws, the public interests and... " I stress, most of all! just "with your conscience. "And right now, it is this moment, good ambassadors, where you have the opportunity to demonstrate the purity of your conscience and the existence of your conscience and to be superior to me: to be superior to party games, to fulfill the wishes of the people, to give the people real power, which is so well spoken by our Constitution §1: "Estonia is an independent and independent democratic republic, where the highest power is exercised by the people." Good members of the Riigikogu! You're hiding behind this high and impenetrable wall called the party. But you, Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, who are you twice the Olympic Winner and World Champion in skiing, do you remember how the people lived with you at the track, shouting, "Pock! Kiku!"? I'm sure that call gave you strength. I remind you, after another victory, you found a way to drive through Paide at a late hour before you went home. Do you remember that? People were screaming the same way. It was because, good Kristina, people love you. Now it's your turn to be there for the people. Please give the people a chance! Because you have a button that will decide the fate of the people. Kaido Höökelson alias Baruto, the Kalevipoeg of our Riigikogu, who you have trashed your back on the Sumomasters of the rising sun earth! The people have lived along with your battles and your victories wholeheartedly because you have been vital to the people. The quote is from you: "No matter how shitty life here, the land of birth is still the land of birth, the fatherland is the fatherland. " You have the opportunity to remain as loved as you have been, giving the people the opportunity they want. Make this shit better! Marika Tuus-Laul, you earned the love of the people by leading the seven-year social-critical show "Knopka" in ETV, which you did in the Christian way, in a simple and understandable way, with care and love. I know you as an honest and principled person, and you have the opportunity to further increase the love of the people for yourself. I know you have a conscience worthy of a member of the Riigikogu. I hope so, at least. Jüri Ratas, do you remember, at the 16th Congress of the Centre Party in Paide on 5 November 2016, you were elected chairman of a party with 654 delegates? In your thank-you speech to Congress, good Jüri, you promised to continue the course chosen by the legendary chairman of the Central Party, Edgar Savisaare, and to stand up for the people. One of the promises was that the people should be able to choose the president. I know you visited Paide before the last Riigikogu elections. And a pensioner told me in a later conversation that he didn't wash his hands for a week after he hands you. It was said without an irony. It was said without irony because the people believed in you and still believe in you because you promised to stand up for the people. You have the opportunity to support this bill and come back to Paide with clean hands, which every grandmother welcomes. Jüri Jaanson, your insane will and a serious athlete's career prove every fur medal in the Olympics and World Championship. Not everyone can do that, and the people were impressed by your accomplishments. People love you. Although, Jüri, you have had one minor slip: in the case of the draft marriage referendum, you probably signed an amendment without reading to ask the people whether it would be better to live in the Republic of Estonia if the Republic of Estonia were part of Russia. In my opinion, I seem to remember you then publicly apologizing. You have a chance to make up for your mistake and press the bill support button. And believe me, good George, people will forgive you. Kersti Sarapuu, my good colleague Paide! I know you're campaigning for the mayor of Paide, actively communicating with pensioners. But what face are you going to talk to them if you don't support this bill today? I promise you, I will remind all the voters of this. It's not a threat, good Kersti. You've come here to do the will of the people. Annely Akkermann! There may be no need to ask what Annely Akkermann thinks, because I know her point of view. When I spoke to him yesterday, he said: I want to ask the party if I can disagree. Why, Annely Akkermann, are you asking me this? You have a people's mandate, you're independent in your decisions, you're the woman behind the sea, Kihnu. How do you go back to your island and tell them I don't vote for the people? Viktor Vassilyev, a popular man from a famous TV show! I talked to you yesterday, and you said you liked to swim against the river to get more food. The party doesn't support this bill, but you have the opportunity to swim against the tide and support it. Think about it! I know that, in time, the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Lauri Läänemets, will be coming to this table to propose that the draft be rejected. Good Lauri, you can processally do it, of course, because so requires regulation. But, Lauri, you're free to vote and you can support the bill if that's what you want. I would really like to see you communicate with the people during the local election campaign for the purpose of collecting votes, when you are accompanied by your own personal decision, that the people should not exercise the highest state power. That is, of course, if you do not support this bill and reject it. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This also applies, of course, to all others who are in favour of rejection. The public cannot forget this because the local government election campaign is already underway. What kind of face do you go in front of people? It wasn't a threat, it was a reminder of the situation we're in right now. Let me remind you once again: a member of the Riigikogu is free in his political decisions. The people have chosen you here, and the highest authority in our country is the people. I ask all representatives of the people to support this bill and not to reject it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U5	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. First you get the word "Ruben Kaalep," I think he was the first. Oh, there's been some procedural questions. And before we go to the questions, let's solve the procedural issues. Marko Šorin has raised his hand. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U6	Thank you. I would like to ask the President of the sitting to clarify. I'm reading the draft text and listening to the waitress, it's like two different drafts. Are we going to vote on the President's direct election, which was the focus of the whole 20-minute speech? Or are we going to vote on putting this issue to a referendum? There's a big difference here for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U7	Thank you for your question. We have before us the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Organising a referendum on the direct election of the President of the Republic of Estonia." Next procedural question, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, please! Kristina, I think you're online.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U8	Thank you. My name was mentioned, and my only comment is that it is very ugly when my achievements are linked to my draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U9	I hope that the rapporteur will take this into account, but the report has already been made and we can really go to the questions. Ruuben Kaalep is the first to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If you listen to all the arguments against which the President is directly elected, then all of them actually fall back on one simple argument that the people are too stupid to choose the President themselves. But in this case, is it not too stupid for the people to choose the Riigikogu, for example? Shouldn't the Riigikogu be appointed by some wiser body of people? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U11	I don't think people are stupid. People are absolutely not stupid. They know and they're watching us. If they were foolish, they would not be allowed to elect members of the Riigikogu. And if they have the understanding and will and the ability to choose 101 members of the Riigikogu, it is easier to choose between perhaps two or three people. So I do not agree with the claim that the people are stupid, although yes, it is served. I don't remember who the politician said the people were stupid. Well, I remember, but just in case, I don't have the courage to say it now, and then I get the criticism again. As Kristina Šmigun-Vähi said, she would ask not to mention her results and achievements in relation to the draft. Good Kristina, I bring them out because the people were with you, supporting you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U12	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U13	Honourable President and Honourable Rapporteur. Kalle, you have brought a number of research figures on how much of our citizens wants the President's direct election. Without doubt, these figures are truly impressive. But, as far as I am aware, there has never been a question to the citizens as to whether they even want Estonia to hold a presidential position. According to the Constitution of the first Republic of Estonia, there was no President in Estonia and was excellently managed. Personally, it is very sympathetic to me, it marks the equality of society, that we do not have such barons or von's. And I recall that at that time no decorations were given to Estonian citizens during peacetime and, of course, there was no such pomposable reception as the President is currently organising. If it were up to you, what would be the order of your preferences for these three choices: the current system or the directly elected president or the country without the president?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U14	Thank you, good Jack White! I'll give them all an evaluation. First of all, I personally do not like the current system, because it is simply the will of a person who does the wishes of the parties in power. And that's why I don't think it's right. One of your options was that maybe Estonia should not have a president at all, just as it was during the first Republic of Estonia. I think, Jaak, that this issue is extremely important. When I have spoken to the people, many have really asked whether we really need an institution such as the President. But it exists now. I think that a broad debate should be launched to find an answer to this question and, after the results of this debate have been found, that people's opinions have been heard, that consideration of both pros and cons could be taken forward. You also expressed impressive support for holding a referendum on the election of the President. I find it very refreshing to read the verbatim of the Constitutional Assembly, which drew up the Constitution of Estonia, which shows that the poll conducted in January of that year showed that 71% of respondents were in favour of the direct election of the Head of State and only 10% of respondents were willing to grant this right to Parliament. And this position was formulated by Rein Lang, who made a general presentation on the election of the President, on 6 February 1992. And Rein Lang also asked whether such a people's opinion could be opposed to compelling constitutional arguments, and replied himself that, according to the experts' common opinion, there are no such arguments and, based on the above approach, according to which the Constitution is a social treaty, it is concluded that the President of the Republic of Estonia should be elected by the citizens of the Republic of Estonia in free elections. And by the way, Jüri Raidla, the top lawyer today, had also expressed his agreement on behalf of this expert group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that there is one minute to ask the question. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I read Eero's Livonian dissertation from 2017 and before I ask, I read a few sentences here: "The question of whether and how the constitutionally guaranteed direct democracy works and expands is also a question of whether and how the Constitution works. [---] Compared to the Nordic countries, the complacency of Estonians with democracy is rather low, direct democracy is more valued. [---] The constitutional direct democratic opportunities have rarely been implemented and attempts to deepen direct democracy have mostly been rejected in the Riigikogu. [---] Modern legislation has been strongly influenced by neoliberal ideology, bringing to the fore the principle of interest arising from the regulation of commercial-financial relations. In particular, the participation of the people shall be restricted to voting and shall no longer be able to interfere or influence Parliament's decision during this period. "My question: what do you think, Kalle, why has Estonia gone down the road of ignoring direct democracy, contrary to our neighbours?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U17	Well, there are a number of compelling reasons. In fact, I also recall the question of Reuben Kaalep: do you think that the Estonian people are stupid? It's a "background" to your question. The Estonian people are not stupid. But maybe it's just that there's some kind of manipulation going on here. It's much easier to manipulate when the circle of decision-makers is small. Big money can also, in principle, influence decisions, especially in autocratic society, or if, let's say, decisions are usually made in narrow backrooms, as is really the case with the current presidential election system. And it is often the same as in Estonia that decisions are simply imposed on us from outside. The referendums, as such, do not encourage the manipulation of voters and the bribery of representatives of the people, but vice versa. A referendum or a referendum as such reduces this possibility of bribery because it is more difficult than a smaller part to unfairly influence or buy out a larger community in society. So I see, on this very difficult issue of yours, it is precisely the attempt to reduce the circle of those who are decision-makers.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U18	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U19	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear waitress, I agree exactly that the people are certainly not stupid. The Estonian people are certainly not stupid and certainly are not stupid people who are in this Chamber and ask questions, even if they pretend that they do not understand what the bill says or pretend that they do not understand what the presentation is about. I think we all understand what the bill is about and what it is talking about, both of us. We are talking about whether or not the people have the right to decide on matters of state in Estonia, whether or not they do not have important state agencies. We have several political parties in Estonia who have been on the line against direct democracy for a very long time and very basically. These are primarily social democrats, but the Fatherland has also been. But we also have a party in the form of our party and there is a Central Party that has always supported direct democracy. Have you been in contact with colleagues from the Centre Party? How do you feel about what they're doing and what's their reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U20	Yeah, I've been talking. I have been in contact with many members of the Riigikogu from the Centre Party and, in fact, these members have said that the party that was once created by Edgar Savisaar does not exist. The name of the Centre Party if that's what's left. But the party is flooded with liberal values, and that is why the ironware of the Central Party is also frustrated, who would really like to carry out the same referendum that I have tabled. Yesterday, for example, I had a conversation with Enn Frontland. The experienced man, some time ago the oldest representative in the Riigikogu, said that we actually need to support this bill because we have promised it to the people. And that's the whole question. I don't know what the Centre Party is doing. Edgar Savisaar, who was a strong supporter of this position, was taken from power... I'm sorry, not taken from power, but he lost his leadership. At this point, the Centre Party says that they will not support this bill, this time through Jüri Ratas' mouth, whom I met this morning in the order of the cafeteria. He said yes, it's all very good, but the time is not yet ripe. I don't know when it's time. That's weird. And when I said that I would turn to him personally on the same issue as I did in the report, he turned his back on me. Does this mean, then, that the Centre Party turns its back on the people and goes to values that are not inherent in our society? I hope, however, that those members of the Centre Party who are true advocates of the people will vote against the rejection of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U21	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U22	Thank you very much. Good Kalle! There is really no doubt that, at this moment and today, the support of the people for the direct election of the President can be said to be extremely strong. But in 2017 there was a situation where the Latvian President called on his country to introduce the President's direct election as soon as possible. And Kersti Kaljulaid responded to this in 2017 by stating that Estonia has no such interest, that there is no political support for it in Estonia and that the people do not want it either. Do you have any information on how true Kersti Kaljulaid's claim that the public was not interested at the time was made in 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U23	I do not know where our esteemed, well-respected President Kersti Kaljulaid draws this information from. I don't know if he's done an opinion poll somewhere, I don't know. A year later, I follow a study carried out by the Institute of Social Studies, according to which three-quarters of the Estonian people support the President's direct election. In fact, it is absurd that in one year things can change so much. That's impossible. If that's impossible, then can I say that the president lied? I can't say that, of course. Perhaps that was the case at that moment, and at one point an insane turn of heel was made, and within a year, three-quarters of the Estonian people began to support the presidential election directly. Maybe, I don't know. But there's doubt in the air. Perhaps it is behind here that Kersti Kaljulaid's ambition to be elected by a small community, by a small number electoral body to get back to the presidency. In fact, all the signs show that this is why this bill is currently being fought against, that it may take the opportunity to put President Kaljulaid in place for another term of office. We know that he has refused to apply for the position of head of the OECD. Of course, we don't know why. It was a very big hurrah at first, it's gonna be okay. But at one point, it was abandoned. Did he fall out, did they give him a signal that there was no point? Of course, you have to bet on the local playground. But I don't think the president gave me the right information back then. That's my answer. People want a different outcome, they want to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U24	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U25	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Kalle, I am actually very grateful that you have taken on this responsible task and that you have so forcefully presented this important draft here today. The organisation of a referendum on the direct election of the President of the Republic of Estonia has also had the main programme promises of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. But please be good and order over which other parties currently present in the Riigikogu have previously been in favour of directly electing the President in words and in their programmes! In reality, however, when this issue has become topical at the level of the Riigikogu, it has been placed in the bushes and it has been opposed to giving the people decision-making power. It is desirable to keep the people out of politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U26	There is no doubt that at the top of these political parties there is the Centre Party, which has repeatedly called for the President to be elected by the people. But where are they now? I don't know, maybe today's vote will give you another position. I know that some of the Members of the Fatherland have also been in favour of directly electing the President of Estonia, but, as we know, there is a division there, so there is no clear position. Today I met a member of the Riigikogu from Fatherland, Mr Reinsalu. I asked him if he would support the vote today. Urmas Reinsalu said: yes, I support it morally. The moral question is another, good Urmas, here we make decisions. I would like to see you go to meet the voters and say that I actually morally supported this bill, but for some reason I did not vote in favour. Good Urmas, you matter to the people, you've been spoken of as a future president. Show that you are worthy of this assessment, please support this bill! Then you will no longer have to talk about morality. You will also show that you really love the people. And then you get the love of this people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U27	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U28	Good manager and waitress! All this is true of God, which is said a thousand times here: it is what the people want. But what do you think is going to do, which button is going to press today, dear colleague Siim Kallas? On 14 October 2017, he has said that he is now finally a direct voter. And he said this, describing today's president: "This is a real disgrace to Estonia's democracy. 81 people voted, but the choice was actually made by 4 to 5 people. " This is the direct attitude of the Honorary Chair of the Reform Party towards today's president. My question is: how do you think our honourable colleague will vote today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U29	Very difficult, good Peter, to deal with divination. I hope, however, that good Siim Kallas will vote in favour of the draft. After all, there is a saying that do not follow my words, but follow my actions. I would very much like Siim Kallas, a very influential member of the Reform Party, to help members of his party implement his view that the people should be able to directly elect the President. Or, good Siim, if you don't want to do this, give your people the vote! And since there was also talk of electing the President, I would like to recall a quote from Lennart Meri: 'In a few weeks' time, I will be just the President, not the President of the Republic. The departure of the Head of State from politics gives him a unique opportunity. The opportunity and obligation to speak impartially and also to take steps whose impartiality is beyond doubt. " Lennart Meri said: "I think it is reasonable to have the President directly elected in the Constitution. I hope that the next president will be elected directly by the people in 2006. The direct election of the President gives the people the opportunity to speak in the direction of the state. People are missing this opportunity right now. " That is what our first President of this republic said. I would remind you that it was 2006. What's the status now? The year 2021 has started. And those messages haven't gotten anywhere. Good politicians! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! If you do not believe me, please listen to what the President of the Republic of Estonia, Lennart Meri, said! His words are not vain. His words are quoted, accounted for. This is the time to listen to Lennart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U30	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue where my colleague Ernits graduated from the Reform Party. The Reform Party has previously opposed referendums to the last drop of blood, and they have also blocked the President's direct election. Why does the Reform Party despise the Estonian people, or at least that part of the people who do not belong to the so-called first Estonia, among the elite that thinks they are progressive? Why do they fear direct democracy, the voice of the people or the power of the people? And do you see the danger of this attitude being passed on to the Central Party in the government coalition, which is surprisingly able to vote against the referendum on the direct election of the President in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U32	Thank you, good questioner! I'll start at the end. I think the thinking of the Reform Party has already passed on and is being passed on to the Central Party. It is abnormal that, although some of the members of this party would like to press the pro- bill button today, they cannot do so. Why can't you? The tracks lead to a very passionate past of this party, which has not always been gold-coloured and rosary. In fact, I think that the Reform Party is simply afraid to lose its influence in our society and therefore does everything to prevent the people from exercising state power as stated in § 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, according to which the supreme power in Estonia is exercised by the people. Their dogma is second: let it be marked there, but let what is written in the Constitution remain on that paper, we will continue to do our business, we have important matters for us. They must think the people are stupid.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U33	Now, via web transfer to Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U34	Thank you. Good waitress! This bill is, in my opinion, a bit of running under the bar, such as giving power to the real people, such a slight distrust. Other matters of state life have been chosen, the legal consequences of which are unclear. It's like you don't really want to give people power. If you are so strongly in favour of what, I think, a large part of the Estonian people are in favour of all the polls that show that the Estonian people are in favour of the President's direct election, then why are you not here with the draft amendment to the Constitution? Let's have a referendum on the election of the president by the people! Then the people would actually make a power decision, then the people would actually participate. Why did you choose this form instead of being here with an honest bill to vote for the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U35	Thank you, good Oudekki! In fact, my amazement is enormous if I'm listening to your interpretation of the bill I've tabled. I kind of want to run under the bar somewhere. No, I don't want to run under the bar because I don't need to run under the bar. I'm gonna jump over it the way athletes do, I'm gonna go over that height because everything's legal. § 56 of the Constitution states that the people exercise the power of state in two ways: the election of the Riigikogu and the referendum. Are you saying you can't have a referendum? I think it's okay. Secondly, paragraph 105 says that the Riigikogu has the right to put the bill or other state life into a referendum. That's what I'm doing right now. I will put this same bill to a referendum. Of course, yes, there are differences. It is known which questions must not be put to a referendum. These are, I must quote again, that the referendum must not be given any questions relating to the budget, taxes, financial obligations of the state, ratification and denunciation of foreign contracts, the establishment and termination of the state of emergency and national defence issues. This list, good Oudekki, is completely exhaustive. You have not said that the draft I have tabled belongs to one of these categories, so it is permissible to ask this question. As for your claim that I'm kind of creating an unusual situation, I'm not creating any unusual situation. The Constitution of Estonia can be amended by a law adopted in a referendum. That's one. Another way to change the Constitution is if two successive compositions of the Riigikogu wish to do so. In addition, it is possible to amend the Constitution as a matter of urgency if the decision to deal with the draft law amending the Constitution is adopted by a four-fifths majority of the Riigikogu and this law amending the Constitution is adopted by a two-thirds majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. These are the three known variants. But, good Oudekki, there's one thing I don't understand. The Constitution gives the people the opportunity to ask a question, and if the people say yes, is this decision, this position, as expressed in the referendum, mandatory for the public authorities? I assume we are not arguing about whether the Riigikogu is a public body. The people have given us instructions and guidelines to adopt the mandate of the people given on the basis of a referendum. And there are already other legal levers that can be used to legalize the outcome of this survey. Just as the European Union is sending us a directive and we have to adopt it because we have joined the Treaty of Lisbon. In this case, there is no dispute in the Riigikogu as to whether we are resisting or not. We'll do it. The same is true in the current situation. If the people decide that the President must be elected by the people, that he can choose the President directly, then it is equally mandatory for us. And I would argue that the so-called free mandate of a member of the Riigikogu will also end here in the sense that he can pursue politics at his own discretion. The people have spoken, the people are the bearer of the highest state power, and the result of the referendum must simply be legalised.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U36	Thank you, good waitress. I hope you had a slight glitch. You said that you would put a bill to the referendum, but I recall that we have a debate on the issue of other state life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U37	Yes, it was. I'm sorry! Yeah, it's a matter of other state life.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U38	Next up, Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kalle! If you look at the explanatory memorandum to this draft decision, it is referred to here that, according to a study carried out in 2018, three quarters of all electoral citizens in Estonia supported the direct election of the President. Why, however, is it that, if three quarters of the citizens support it, the same citizens have chosen the representatives of the people of Toompea here to represent themselves, but this opinion is not reflected here? Why are we only seeing here that the ambassadors of the Estonian Conservative People's Party support it? Why are we in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U40	That is, Mr Rene, a very good question and, in fact, a sign for the forthcoming elections. Don't always believe those people who run for office and promise you porridges and dairy rivers, but if they're in this very hall, they don't care about the people anymore. For them, the power and well-being that result from membership of the Riigikogu is important. People will be forgotten until another election arrives. And then it's time to remind the people of what I've all done, I did it, the second and the third. But, of course, these are very important issues that have been resolved by the ambassadors here, but neither the definition of the highest authority as a nation has for nothing been laid down in § 1. This is the most important issue and this most important issue should be considered by all members of the Riigikogu as one of the most important issues. I want to see how the same members of the Riigikogu who oppose this draft today go to talk to the people in the municipal elections. I don't know that. I think most people laugh. And I promise you that I will also try to name the names of the people in my constituency who oppose this bill. After all, today's vote actually pulls a water gap as to which political parties and which ambassadors actually stand for the interests and well-being of the people and which do only have a beautiful play. I think that's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U41	Through the web Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U42	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I also agree with your party partner that the Estonian people are not stupid. They have elected the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu has a mandate to elect the President. If the Riigikogu is unable to elect a president, this task goes to the electoral body, which is also made up of elected representatives of the people. If you are so convinced that the people want this change, why do you not collect the signatures of two thirds of the members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber and initiate the amendment of the Constitution, as Mr Oudekki Loone has also proposed? Why spend millions on another referendum? The money needed to organise a referendum could help even underprivileged families. Why do you want to waste taxpayers' money? After all, the people do not want to spend their earned tax money in vain. Why are you afraid to initiate a constitutional amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U43	Thank you, good questioner! There's one thing I don't completely understand. The Constitution contains not three, but four ways in which state power can be exercised by the people. Why, in a categorical form, do you rule out the possibility that the people will be able to give their opinion by voting? Tell me that! I don't know why you're ruling it out. Second point. I'm very sorry, good Imre, that I didn't get to you with my talk, but I went to several members of the Centre Party and they told me that yes, we support it, but we can't vote in favour because I don't know if it's too abstract a concept, the board doesn't allow us to do it. And here, the good Imre, is the answer to your question. I cannot reach a consensus with you on this. Right now, however, you are faced with this choice. You have a chance to legitimize it, vote for it! You're talking about huge millions here. I don't know how much it takes, I don't know, maybe over 1 million. Just in case, I'm not gonna give you that number. But let me remind you of one thing that has to do with my recent activities. As far as I'm concerned, I'm the chairman of Estonia's ship-wreck investigation support group. I know that in order to investigate the wreck of Estonia, the government committed EUR 3 million. At the same time, I have data that the exact same amount of money comes from the Swedish side, EUR 3 million. And I also have such data, good Imre, that Estonian companies who would be willing to do these research work at the Estonia wreck are willing to do it for 1 to 1.5 million. It means there's a waste of money everywhere. I'm not gonna give you any of those examples, but there's enough money to sneak up on and stop it. But if you are going to count money when it comes to giving the people, the highest authority, voting rights, I ask, good colleague, why are there no such protests when we throw millions to the left and to the right, giving Europe, for example, some non-refundable aid to millions of Africans, who are putting this money on tour? It is no secret that the European Union's research has shown that about 60% of the 100 billion are simply stolen. Good Imre, a referendum is a thing that has not been carried out and was asked for in its time by Lennart Meri. I don't think it's appropriate to start counting the money on this one. I have come to the Riigikogu from the so-called grassroots level, I have never worked in this hall before, nor have I been the head of any major institution. I know what people think, I know what people really want, because I've been communicating with absolutely all groups. But I've seen that the signatures you referred to, the good Imre, don't get together in this hall right now. There's only one way to go this way. Yeah, we're gonna spend some money, but it's worth it so people get the right to direct selection.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U44	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U45	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable performer! The mentality of the prehistoric merchant is, of course, amazing. I don't know if he's gonna get that mentality even if the public money is funding homo-organisations. I could hit you. But I recall the previous presidential elections, which I was on the merry-go-round, riding on a proud horse. After all, it was wonderful to have all of us barbecued with our language skills, our art knowledge, our portraits, and all kinds of circuses. And then, in the end, neither the Riigikogu nor the electoral assembly were able to elect the President. The election of the president came back to this hall, and under the agreement of the back rooms, the president was made by a person who does not have any mandate granted by the people. A people's mandate! It's a back room deal! And now, for five years, we have seen this person abuse the power he has been given to him from this hall, take political views, contribute to a coup d'état, etc. And here's my question: would such an abuse of power be ruled out in the case of the elected President of the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U46	I think you have focused today's discussion on a basically very important point. The elected president of the people means that the people agree with the thoughts and actions of this president. In addition, it means that the people love their president, he trusts in him, because he is, like, let's say, the spiritual leader of the people. As a leader, however, the President has the utmost responsibility to keep his people, to call for order, to bind, but not to do so in such a way that, for example, the people of the EKRE are directly said to be hated. It's faceless. It's very faceless! I don't see the slightest sign of a connection here. Response to hotspots has been optional. Only one of our party members has to say when a big bubble is blown and the National Defence Council is called. However, if an amendment has been tabled in this Chamber to ask whether the Estonian people consider it right to join Russia, whether we should be in their sphere of influence, the President will remain silent, he does not exist. If there is a President, he must be impartial, equal and respond to all mistakes in the same way, not to make choices. And here, good Mart, the answer to your question is actually there. As long as the possibility of the President's office being filled by the choice of 'backrooms' persists, this is the case. It is time for everyone to stand up and promise the people what the people deserve: to give the people the right to decide who must be the President of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U47	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U48	The Estonian Conservative People's Party has been created precisely to stand up for the people and the Estonian state. Of course, we would arrange for the constitutional amendment to be initiated right here in the Riigikogu, but we know that it will fail. It is unfortunately not supported by other parties. In the European Union, more than half of the Member States have set the President to be elected by the public. Of our closest neighbours, this is in Finland and Lithuania. And the powers given to the President are different in every country. In Finland, it is considerably bigger than in Estonia. One argument put forward by the opponents of the President's direct election is that it would give the President too much power. Is it that our friends in the European Union, for example in Finland, have authoritarian power? And what if the people choose the president, but the president's mandate is set out as we do, the president gets too much power?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U49	I don't think we have that fear, so the president gets too much power. His actions are governed by the law. The President still has some sort of representation function. However, this profession is not insignificant. He still accepts and upholds the laws and challenges the laws of the Supreme Court if he finds that there is something unconstitutional in them. So there is certainly no danger of becoming an authoritarian state. And in fact, this list of countries where the heads of state chooses the people is much bigger. These include Iceland, Bulgaria, Poland, Austria, Ireland, France and Portugal. Only a few other countries are there where the people do not choose the President. If the majority of the population of the European Union is allowed to choose the President, then it is time for us to join this united family of the peoples of the European Union and join the countries in which the President is elected in a democratic way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U50	Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you again that there is one minute to ask the question. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! With reference to the above, let us be honest, Kersti Kaljulaid would never have become president if the people had decided. The former presidential election procedure was motivated by the desire of the Fatherland to exclude Arnold Rüütel from moving to Kadriorg. I wasn't a member of the back room, but I'm still close, and I know what I'm saying. Whether it was a legitimate step at that time or not, it will be decided by historians. But that was the situation a few decades ago. Today, the left-wing liberals say that 70% of the population is so stupid that it would be insane to make a decision to give them anything. Good waitress, do you believe in the ability of one nation to develop into evolution and the possibility that one nation may develop in a few decades, that today Estonia is different from Estonia that has left under the Russian occupation? And have you realized by what criteria the people are finally ripe? What's the lack of respect for the Constitution today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U52	I don't think it's necessary to ask me when people are mature enough to give him power. Those who do not want to give power to the people should answer that question. Let them answer that question. But since you, good Urmas, also touched on the topic of the Soviet Union and Estonia, I remember that the Estonian Constitutional Assembly was very seriously considering whether to give the people the chance to directly elect the President. It was up to Parliament to decide by a very narrow majority. Of course, I realize that at the time, the situation was quite different. After all, there were also so-called third-country nationals in Estonia, mainly Russian citizens, which may have meant to a certain extent a threat to the constitutional order of Estonia. Therefore, the Constitutional Assembly found that it was early for the people to give it to them. By now, the people have evolved, there has been evolution, as you said. I think that the Estonian people are ripe for this and it is high time to give him more power than the election of the members of the Riigikogu alone. The people deserve it!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U53	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! There are two ways in which we treat ourselves here, i.e. the MPs and the Riigikogu as a whole. One way is that we consider ourselves the masters of the people. The people have given us power, made us an elite, made us a so-called new nobility, and no more people have any say. Let the people chew the grass, the bark of potatoes, or the remaining power we leave to the people. The second possibility is that we consider ourselves servants of the people: our mandate is nothing more than a duty to serve the people. If we now give the people the opportunity to answer whether or not they want to vote directly for the President, then the people may also say that they do not want to. And when he decides that, it's the will of the people. I'm just asking you, who do you see yourself as? Do you see yourself as the master of the people or as the servant of the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U55	I still think I belong among the people's servants. I think you, Leo Kunnas, are among the servants of the people. I think all the ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia are among the servants of the people. Otherwise, we wouldn't be in this Chamber right now with this bill, wanting to give the people more power. Those who are not in favour of this bill, I think that the words of Hando Runnel, a very well-loved poet, are suitable for their character: the obstruction of the direct election of the President by the state fathers is the castration of the people. Very simply said! And here's the difference between being servants of the people or being masters of the people. Good people, remember!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U56	With the help of the web, Annely Akkermann will now join us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U57	Hi! Dear colleague Kalle! The right things have to be done right. Unfortunately, sometimes it happens that failure discredits the goal. The current presentation, in particular this basic presentation, falls within this area. When you came to defend the motion to vote on the question of whether the President could be chosen directly, you spent half of the defence speech to bark, one by one, when you say in the language of the people, members of the Riigikogu from the Olympic winners to everyone you met at the cafeteria. I am a supporter of the President's direct election, but I certainly do not support this draft because it is a draft referendum and it is not well prepared and presented at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U58	There was no question. Your decision whether or not you want to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U59	Okay, I'm trying to answer. Good Annely! First of all, the way I make my call doesn't obey anyone's orders or orders. It's my choice. My free choice is also to bring to the public and to the people the views of people who would otherwise hide behind the walls here, and the people would not know them. I think I did the right thing. I've never been to the Riigikogu before, I haven't played high power games, and I don't know what kind of clues you just gave me, good Annely. How is it possible to do this in a different way? I don't care, I'll be honest! I want the people to be able to elect the President of Estonia, and there is now an opportunity to do so. And if you support it, good Annely, then vote for it. But if you don't support it, then it's also a sign of you being given to the people: either you support it or you don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U60	We're still online. Oudekki Loone, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U61	I'm going to specify my last question. Why don't you put in place, directly and honestly, a draft amendment to the Constitution for the decision of the people to establish a direct election of the President? Then the people would have real power, then the direct election of the President would become the law if they decided to do so. The current draft rejects the issue of trade in Parliament. Has this "other matter of state life" format been chosen because you are really afraid of your chair? Because if the people do not agree with you and the draft is voted down, Parliament will be disbanded and new elections will come. Actually, it's just a stall tactic. You want to be beautiful, but you're really afraid of the people, you don't dare put a bill to the vote. If you don't agree, you still have to hold your chair with ten nails. Why don't we give the President's election directly to the people in a referendum, too, if you think there are no votes in the Riigikogu? Also in a referendum!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U62	Thank you, good Oudekki Loone! There's one thing I don't understand. If there are four ways to walk, why do I have to walk three ways and you're telling me not to go one way? The same path that I chose is basically the first time. Let me get in there! We're gonna have to explore new lands! No one can say I'm doing anything wrong. The same draft, if it goes to the vote and the people decide that the President will be elected by direct election, will be a very accelerated process, good Oudekki, in the sense that this decision is compulsory for the authorities of the state. All the other ways you're strongly suggesting to me, they're just stretching the process. The path I've chosen is the shortest, which is not to be trampled in. But if you make the first path there, it's going to turn into a wide road. More power must be given to the people, he has the right to receive it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U63	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U64	Thank you. I recall that the first presidential elections of the re-established Republic of Estonia were direct elections, the people chose the president for us, and we got a very good president. Throughout the occupation, the Estonian people wore this spark of democracy in their hearts; it did not disappear anywhere. We also remember that, when a popular initiative was organised, which was finally muffled in the iceberg, there was also the greatest support for this idea, so that the people could directly choose the President. So I don't know where today's president has taken his stand that the people don't want it. In this 30 year period, have the Estonian people become so stupid, so feeble, so empty that we can no longer choose the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U65	I don't think the crowd's gotten any dumber. If he was able to choose the first president in a direct election, I don't think he got any dumber after what he did. The people have evolved, the people have grown wiser, the people have come to appreciate political views, political promises, and they have come to understand who is telling the truth, who is lying. I think the people are smarter than some members of the Riigikogu think. And that's probably what they're afraid of. We are now at the threshold of this stage that we need to open this door so that the people can still decide on the question of the direct election of the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U66	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good Kalle! Let me ask you a little bit differently. Do you see any difference between the effects of our presidential election? The President is the supreme leader of national defence. Do you see any difference between the actions of the person who has received this post in the current selection and those of the elected President and those of the guardians?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U68	Thank you, good Alar! Given your military background, I'm sure you drew attention to a very important aspect. After all, the President of Estonia is the highest military and, in principle, the leader of the Defence Forces, who basically decides on defence matters in a single person. There is, of course, a very important security aspect here too, let's say, based on your observation. If we put our highest military commander in the back rooms, we'll never know which moves this leader can make as president. But if the people choose this person directly, I tend to think that this is less likely because the people have been able to observe the actions, behavior, sayings of this person. This is generally a very important aspect. In any case, I think, good Alar, that by directly electing the President by the people, the security of the country is much more guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U69	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U70	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! I am amazed at the aggressive attack by the Central Party on this bill and this bill on the waitress. We are not afraid of extraordinary elections. I have asked lawyers to carry out an analysis of whether the Riigikogu should be dissolved when one political group, as a whole, leaves the Riigikogu. I haven't gotten an answer yet. If the answer is yes, our group may, in some circumstances, decide to take such a step to launch extraordinary elections. So we are not afraid of extraordinary elections. We will certainly remind the Central Party that already at the time of the formation of the previous Jüri Ratas government, they betrayed a number of their principles and are now doing so as an extension of the Reform Party's arm in the new government, in this case concerned the direct election of the President. The question is very simple: do you really think that the path you choose is the only alternative, or are there other alternatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U71	The path I choose, I think, is the only alternative in this sense that legitimization of direct election by the public is the fastest option. There are, of course, other [options] that I have already spoken about in my previous speech. But I would like to point out, good Oudekki, that you touched why I chose this path. I would remind you that in 2002, the Centre Party had just submitted a draft for the direct election of the Head of State, but then water was drawn onto your bill. I think you just have to learn from these mistakes. If you have not achieved the objective that you once wanted to achieve, so that the people choose the President directly, it has not worked, then there is therefore no point in stepping on the same rake for the second time. Consequently, it is the only right step to go the way the bill deals with, perhaps to ask for the opinion of the people. I think this is the fastest way, and the most honest way, because these processes are so fast that all the ambassadors will be taken off the mask and the people will see what's really behind this mask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U72	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U73	Good manager! Yes, I would like to quote again the beloved poet and say that in this hall people are loved to castrate people, to cut off their eggs, as they say in the country. This is the 13th time since the restoration of independence today. Thirteenth! In fact, if you look at all the 12 things that a good colleague here, Oudekki, talked about, yes, the amendment of the constitution, etc., long story, all of them have been tried, everything has been played out. On 23 September 2015, the 12th time the people had their eggs cut off, it was our colleagues. It was a bill submitted by the Centre Party. 55 colleagues took off their eggs, sent [the draft] to the garbage bin at first reading. Don't you think it doesn't matter what method they do and when they do it? The result is somehow one. This company here is very afraid of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U74	Yes, good Peter, in fact, this historic, chronological order of yours has shown that this bill, giving the people the opportunity to choose the president directly, has always failed. It's always failed. I absolutely don't understand, good Oudekki, your mind, too. Why don't I go the same way again? I don't want to go when I've stepped on the rake 12 times and got hit on the head with that rake. There's a bump on his forehead. I want to go this way, where you may not be able to [on the head], where you might still be able to give the people the chance to choose the president directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U75	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U76	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I will continue with the Centre Party. On the 13th day, the Centre Party ran out of the hall, took a break, and just ran away. Escaped from the hall, even though he had made a promise in the coalition agreement a few years ago that he would defend the referendum on marriage. In the same way, he had promised, along with other members of the government union, to restore popular referendums. In 2016, the EKRE and the Central Party delegates introduced the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to amend the electoral order of the President of the Republic. Now, if we don't get any voices from the Centre Party back here, do you have any idea how you're gonna take the button on them again and convince them to listen, how are we gonna do this now, so you're not so hypocritical, you're really gonna ride that horse again, which you used so carefully in previous years?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U77	Thank you. In fact, I really like that kind of thing, when a person promises something, he does it. After all, while in the government, the Central Party promised that a marriage referendum would be held. What happened? What happened was, as you, Anti, quite rightly pointed out, during the vote, the entire Central Party ran out of the hall. What does that mean? That means they lied, they betrayed their original promises. At the moment, we are basically testing with this bill whether or not the Central Party ambassadors want to correct the mistake they have made. This is now their chance to make up for what they did to both the government and the marriage referendum. I hope, at least, that some of the Central Party's ambassadors, I rather hope that many of the Central Party's ambassadors will try to restore the Centre Party's good reputation. Of course, this is not the place, but I would remind you that we are constantly receiving applications at the EKRE, and those who cross over are the middle party. Don't let your voters run away! Don't shoot, please! But it doesn't really matter now either. What is important is that you have repeatedly wanted to give the people the right to choose the President. Make your promise come true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U78	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Referring to the one in front of the hall, I'd like to ask you. We're pretty close to local elections. Does it not seem to you that we are facing a much greater view of the world and global problems this time in the local elections, not just road maintenance and children's schooling? The great world, globalism, the European Union, with its aggressive policies against nation states, all of them are invading local life. What's your vision of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U80	Thank you. Indeed, figuratively speaking, thunder clouds are gathering over our cloudless Estonia. We're under threat from a compulsive influx of migrants. There's an hate speech law coming into this hall right now. It is likely that the same-sex law will soon be passed, because the European Union will tell us in advance. We have to do this. These important processes will undoubtedly not have an impact on the issues of local life. Coming to the President after all, then in these moments, in these days, the leader must be the one who can hold the people together and create a sense of unity. Of course, local elections are also known to have a major influence on the decision-making of local life issues. In fact, in these elections, we can see what kind of ambassadors are those who support the will of the people as the highest authority and who are those who do not support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U81	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! This draft decision received the Commission's decision to suspend the reading. Could you briefly give an overview of the grounds for interruption in the Commission? Which party was the loudest in calling for an interruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U83	Thank you. One of the main motives for rejecting this draft was that it was unconstitutional. I couldn't figure out what the miscarriage of the constitution was. In general, this discussion ended at the moment when I referred to both the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the Act of Referendum, which lists the specific topics on which people cannot ask their opinion, to ask this question. Then, as Valdo Randpere expressed there, the intellectual debate ended, and only pressure was exerted: take this bill back, take it back. Who voted to reject it? Social Democrats and the Reform Party. Only the representatives of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Anti Poolamets and I voted in favour of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U84	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U85	Thank you very much. Good Kalle! This draft has been put forward in order to receive a guide from the people, an opinion that the people should give a 'guide' to politicians. A moment ago we found out, and we have heard several times before, that the decision to interrupt came from the Commission, when it was discussed. Please, tell the people what it means to interrupt.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U86	The rejection or termination of the bill means that this draft will fall out of the procedure, this issue will no longer be discussed by the Riigikogu. This means that the majority of the Riigikogu throws the opinion of the people about the presidential election, or the opinion of the people is not important to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U87	And now via the web Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U88	Thank you. I have a question, Kalle. I understand that you and the EKRE really don't like the current president, and that is the reason and background of this whole bill. But think back a little bit. In 2016, we elected a president. If it had been possible for the people to choose directly, Marina Kaljurand would most likely or certainly have become president. If the President had been elected by the electoral body, then, only on the basis of the majority of the votes, Siim Kallas would have become president. I think you wouldn't like either of these presidents, maybe even less than you do now. What are you gonna do if there's gonna be a direct election, and then you're gonna have an unpleasant president again? So, what are you going to do to change the law again, or what is this escape route? Maybe it's just that people in Estonia, no matter who chooses this president, always choose someone who doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U89	Thank you, good Valdo! In fact, what I like and who I like is not appropriate at all. It is appropriate that, when the people elect the President, it is the will of the people, the will of the majority of the people. As we know, society is made up of different groups. There are, let's say, lumberjacks and tree huggers, supporters of same-sex marriage as well as 'traditional marriage proponents', old and young, drunkards and athletes. It's the whole society, right, it's the groups, but these different groups, according to their own vision, are choosing the right person. That's what electing the president means. If these groups have been chosen, it is therefore the will of the majority, so that the minorities make up the majority. I don't know if you understood this, but it has nothing to do with liking me. The way you're trying to predict the future here, who could have, or... Well, I don't know, I mean, this so-called astrology could still remain Igor Mang's property.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U90	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Would it be possible for you to explain precisely both in the interests of the verbatim and in the interests of the people who are watching [the broadcast] what this direct democracy means? It seems that many of our ambassadors have not fully understood what direct democracy is and what it looks like. Then it's like we're all in a clearer picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U92	Thank you. Let us say that, in a very simple way, direct democracy is when the people can decide for themselves certain matters of state life. There are currently only two options for direct democracy: one is the election of members of the Riigikogu and the other is a referendum that is not wanted in any way here. One of the forms here is representative democracy, which still works: the people have chosen the members of the Riigikogu, who carry out the will of the people in the form of decisions taken in this Chamber. However, I would like to quote Jaak White, who has said that the concept of representative democracy is, in fact, a blurring of real democracy, because there should be no such thing as this. If there is democracy, this should mean that this democracy will enable people to participate independently and directly in the decision-making of important issues in the country. I don't know, maybe the [reply] wasn't enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U93	Good waitress! However... Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U94	Thank you. Kalle, I'm gonna give you one more chance that if you missed a problem, please let me hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U95	Thank you. I would, of course, first of all like to apologize to all the members of the Riigikogu who felt emotionally touched by my speech. I'm sorry if I hurt anyone. However, I would like to say that if you press the button today, press as your conscience commands, because you have a fully free mandate. Believe me, people will remember your decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U96	Now the questions are over. Thanks to the waitress! Next, Lauri Läänemets is invited to the chair as rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U97	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I will take a look at what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed in the context of this draft. First of all, it has been said that much has been said about the election of the President, but the question of presidential elections was not discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was talk about the holding of a referendum, about this draft, which is intended to be put to a referendum. I mean, there's no point in asking questions that were there before. The Commission did not stop at the issue of the presidential election. We therefore do not know what the Members of the Commission or the representatives of the various political parties thought or feel about the election of the President directly or any other matter relating to the election of the President. At least I don't know. Now, however, what happened in the Commission. The Commission did not discuss this issue for a very long time. A relatively unanimous majority believed that this draft was contrary to the Constitution. Finally, seven out of the nine members of the Commission found this to be contrary to the Constitution. After all, this contradiction comes from what today's constitution says. There has been a great deal of talk about the will of the Estonian people, the will of the Estonian people. I recall that the current constitution was adopted by the Estonian people on 28 June 1992. We in the Riigikogu, especially in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but certainly also in this Chamber, can rely on what the Estonian people have said, how their representatives must act, what their representatives must do, where they must seek greater consensus, where something less is needed for it. We shouldn't cross the Constitution. The point of the Constitution is, in fact, that for all such initiatives aimed at amending the Constitution, a much greater consensus is needed than the usual vote in this Chamber. Another thing that the Constitution says: if we want to put something to a referendum that changes the Constitution, it must be done as a draft law so that there is no difference between what political forces would use a referendum as a day-to-day instrument in their favour. The Constitution is just such an important law. In doing so, it has sought to rule out situations where it could be used in a day-to-day manner by adopting the Constitution and by adopting the Constitution. In the judgment of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court of 30 October 2009, it is very clear that it cannot be put to a referendum either on matters decided on in a specific constitutional procedure, because in such a case the organisation of a referendum would mean ignoring the constitutional procedure. In short, the only reason why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt that this draft should be rejected at first reading is because it is not in conformity with the Constitution. It does not follow the logic that the amendment of the Constitution should look at. There was also a debate on this. This debate was not very long, and the main question was whether or not there was a contradiction with the Constitution. As I said, seven members of the Commission saw a contradiction with the Constitution here, two members of the Commission thought that there was no contradiction. The Commission proposed to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U98	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Let me remind you that the members of the Riigikogu have two questions on this agenda. So Mart Helm has both questions asked, but Ruuben Kaalep can really ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U99	Thank you. Good waitress! In your opinion, does the direct election of the President, which according to polls is supported by the majority of Estonian people, not an important enough topic to be discussed in Estonian society, and is there no consensus that there should be a public debate on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U100	Thank you. I think this is certainly an important issue and I think it should be discussed. As regards the organisation of a referendum, the Constitution says that a referendum that changes the law, in particular the Constitution, cannot simply take the form of a 'question'. This can be done by writing a draft law, bringing it to the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu will put it to a referendum and, if the people support it, the articles have automatically been amended by law, the Constitution has been automatically amended, no one has to say or do more. This is the only reason why, in the Commission's view, this draft cannot be supported in this case. In fact, just as the previous questions have been asked here, we in the Commission also asked why this path is not being followed, as the Constitution provides for the amendment of the Constitution. Unfortunately, we in the Commission did not receive an answer to that question either.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U101	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Lauri! I will ask you the same question as I asked my colleague Kalle. I'm gonna cancel all this introductory preamble. How do you see your role as a servant of the people or as a lord of the people here in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U103	Thank you. A servant of the people. I think we should all see it and feel it and act like it. This means that, as the Estonian people have adopted the current constitution and have said how we should deal with the law, we should do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U104	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U105	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that this draft decision was incompatible with the Constitution. But couldn't the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have taken a creative approach? You could have jointly found a solution so that this issue could still be put to a referendum. We've been watching, too, the Postman has been doing a poll, asking people how they appreciate it. According to this poll, 68% of the population wants the president directly elected by the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U106	Thank you. This proposal, unfortunately, was not made by anyone in the Commission to initiate any other draft or such. I would say that if we wanted to change the presidential election procedure, what is in the Constitution, the quickest and most sensible way to do so is really a referendum in which people say yes or no, and as soon as people say yes, for example, then certain sections of the Constitution have been automatically changed. The path that is being pursued here now is not only that it is contrary to the Constitution, but also a very long way. It makes sense that we ask people what you think first. If people say yes, we think it should be a direct election to the president, then nothing will change. I'm just referring to the fact that this bill doesn't say how this direct election should be. For example, if this [question] even goes to a referendum, it does not know exactly what happens or how. In this sense, the Riigikogu should either initiate the amendment of the Constitution or put the amendment of the Constitution to the referendum again. In short, what is being tried here is the longest version at all to change the constitution and, unfortunately, to actually contradict the idea of amending the constitution. § 164 of the Constitution also states that a three-fifths majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to put the draft law amending the Constitution to a referendum. After all, the idea is that no one should simply change the constitution in a day-to-day political way, but that requires a broader consensus in this Chamber. In this Chamber there are representatives of the people of the parliamentary state, every party, every member of the political party in this Chamber represents the wish or vision of certain people. In fact, the point of the Constitution is that the Constitution is being amended on these issues or that the amendment is being initiated in this Chamber, where there is as broad a consensus as possible. I don't know, actually, this bill hasn't been filed, so I don't know what to say about this consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U107	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good Lauri! You are a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and you probably know, or at least you should know, the Constitution by heart. You referred repeatedly, in the speaker's desk today, too, to the fact that this bill was unconstitutional. The Constitution allows the question of state life to be put out to the people to ask, it is written in the Constitution. Tell me what the constitutional breach of this constitutional rule is. Don't start messing around, just talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U109	Thank you. Not against the Constitution, but against the Constitution. If you read all these verbatim reports or summaries of what was discussed in the constitutional process and which logic was based, which is very important, as you know as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the interpretation of the laws, especially the Constitution, that is what the Court is about, you will see that the meaning of the Constitution is still that, first of all, the Constitution is not being changed, in this Chamber these changes are not initiated by a small consensus, but by a large consensus. Secondly, the Constitution is still being amended so that a specific paragraph or specific paragraphs are put to the vote so that people can say that they understand very well that, if you say yes, which points of law will be or, if you say no, which ones will not be. This question does not allow people to understand what the law would be like afterwards. I think if you and I sat down and started talking, for example, about how you would write the law later and how I would write the law about directly electing the president, these laws could be very different. A person must have a very specific understanding of what he is voting for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U110	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good Lauri! You still didn't give me the answer. I have a draft tabled to put a question to the referendum. This issue is not prohibited by the Constitution, and it is also constitutionally permissible to ask in referendums. Don't tell me right now that the Constitution is going to be changed. The subject of my draft is a referendum asking for the opinion of the people. Take it from here. What is unconstitutional about this issue or the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U112	Good Kalle! In fact, before we started discussing this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we spent a great deal of time in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussing another issue of referendum. We discussed all these things very thoroughly. If, in the case of this second question, the previous one, which was the draft decision 288, was still an opportunity to go in through the 'back door', there is no doubt in this case that the idea of the Constitution that the Constitution would still be amended only in a referendum in such a way that the paragraphs would be put to the vote, it is contrary to the draft. It also arises here that if you put something to a referendum and they are not specific sections of any kind, that is a referendum as a matter of other state life, and if you ask the people and they say yes, for example, it is compulsory for the state authorities, as the Constitution says. The Constitution also says that every member of the Riigikogu is free in his mandate. Then the question arises as to how is the will of the people to become a law if, for example, a member of the Riigikogu in this Chamber says that... Yes, it is speculation, but it is quite possible that we have been discussing this very long in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That is why the meaning of the Constitution and what is specifically stated in the Constitution must be taken into account, so that there are no situations where, in the end, people are fooled. Fooling the people may be if nothing happens in the end, regardless of the will of the people. But if we want to change the Constitution, if we want to vote directly for the President, it is a very simple matter: it is possible for one member of the Riigikogu to write and it is possible for the entire political group to write a draft that changes the Constitution, go to other political parties and ask whether they are willing to join it, and then present it. If there is no consensus in the Riigikogu, that is the point of the Constitution, then there is no consensus in Estonia at the moment, then perhaps there is a need for new elections, then more parties who want to do so will be elected. It's a matter of democracy. We still have to rely on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U113	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, Mr Western Forest, your talk of contradiction with the Constitution did not convince me in any way, and I believe that most of those who watch or listen to this broadcast in this Chamber certainly did not convince them. Well, I understand from what you've said that the only obstacle here is the violation of the Constitution that you have claimed. So let's do the amendment of this constitution. Previously on this round of questions, the representative of the Centre Party also said that why do not you change the Constitution immediately? A representative of the Reform Party spoke a similar story. Would you, Mr Western Forest and the Social Democrats, accompany us in changing this constitution? I understand that, for you, too, the only problem now is the so-called 'unconstitutionality'. In fact, direct presidential election is a good idea. Mr. Western Forest, will you come and sign if we start collecting signatures to change the constitution in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U115	Thank you. First of all, I am not the only one who thinks that this draft is contrary to the Constitution, that is what the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs thought, that is what Riigikogu employees who are competent in this area to carry out an analysis. This has been thought in the past, and it is probably speculation, but I rely on previous opinions and decisions just as the Supreme Court thinks so too. All these things have been handled, all of them discussed. In a sense, I would dare say that it is populism, you can always submit a bill if you know that this is not going to work. I would still suggest that if the real intention is to change the constitution, then put forward a draft that is constitutional so that it cannot be said afterwards that you see, we wanted to achieve something, but look, the others were opposed. No, no one can support something that is contrary to the Constitution. As far as the draft is concerned, I wish you every success. The minute I see this bill, I can tell you what I think of it. But when it comes to the presidential elections and when it comes to the representation of the people, it does not matter what version of the Constitution to be amended, for example, the presidential elections that are now coming would not affect. Just can't change the constitution, no matter what version, just can't. As for the presidential election, which is now coming, I say there really is a problem. The problem is that when the President was not previously elected in the Riigikogu, it went to the electoral body, but the representatives of local governments have been reduced considerably. If there were any before, if I remember correctly, 346, now there are 208. This is a problem and it can be changed quickly. Maybe this should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U116	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Thank you. Let's move on to the negotiations. Let me remind you that only the representatives of the political groups will get the floor. Peeter Ernits wishes to speak first on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U117	Good President and ladies and gentlemen. It was a very embarrassing thing to hear. I was a member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu in September 2015, and I was there for more than two years. The beginning of my parliamentary career was when we discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the proposal to amend the Constitution tabled by the Central Party on the direct election of the President. I was at this table with the author of the constitution, Jüri Adams, my good teacher. I saw it from the circus. But I'll describe it to you. I wrote a story after it called "The Riigikogu Is Renewed to Castrate the People." This was 23 September 2015. But I'm gonna read it out a little bit, so there's no point in recounting it. As a fresh member of the Riigikogu, I saw our parliament working on its first working days. Before the frustrated farmers with their tractors clogged the ground in front of Toompea Castle and the President declared the autumn season open, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which I am a member, had watered down the draft direct election of the President. It only took a quarter of an hour, just like it is now. "The costs of implementing the law have not been covered," began the then Minister for Justice, our dear colleague Urmas Reinsalu. And he said that the draft explanatory memorandum stated that the amendment would increase the cost of the state budget. The assessment is not sufficient. In order to assess the draft, the draft explanatory memorandum should have set out how much it costs, etc. And since the government did not back then, so did my colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I was frustrated to see how people's wishes were taken into account. A large majority of people oppose homosexual marriages, but the Riigikogu still adopts this law. That's what my 2015 article said. Most people would like to choose the president themselves, but the state fathers are sending him away. It is refreshing to read what the Members of the Constitutional Assembly think of all of this. "The survey carried out in January shows that 71% of respondents are in favour of direct elections by the Head of State" (that was 1992) "and only 10% of respondents are willing to grant this right to Parliament. " 10%! And those are Rein Lang's words. "The question arises as to whether such a people's opinion can be opposed to compelling constitutional arguments," asked Lang, later Minister of Justice. And he replied: "The experts agree that there are no such arguments, and based on the above-mentioned survey, according to which the Constitution is a social treaty, we have come to the conclusion that the President of the Republic of Estonia should be elected in free elections by the citizens of the Republic of Estonia." (End of quote, Minister of Justice Lang.) Jüri Raidla, the top lawyer today, had expressed his agreement on behalf of the group of experts. Raidla also referred to surveys showing overwhelming support for the people. "We believe that ignoring them would be a political, socio-psychological and constitutional error." (End of quote, Jüri Raidla.) I'm skipping a few paragraphs. The passionate advocate of the President's direct election was also the poet Hando Runnel. "The imperative of all nations and ethnoste is to choose the leader of his flock himself." (End of quote, Hando Runnel.) "Not the narrower circuit whose instincts can be measured by a psychoanalytic method. " Runnel referred to the Riigikogu, us here. "It's a castration complex that wants to take the right of the people into the hands of a very narrow society." (End of quote, Hando Runnel.) According to Runnel, the people want to choose a great male as their leader: "In agriculture there is such a way: to make a stallion work, they make him half-breed. " That's what Runnel said at the Constitutional Assembly. "Then you can plow with him, and when you go to the church with him, you hump with him. I mean, it performs two functions. What they want to do through voters and the Riigikogu in the presidential elections is precisely this act. " Castration.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U118	Mr. Ernits, do you need more time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U119	Well, I'm not gonna tell you how Vardo Rumessen, Illar Hallas and the rest of them were distressed that they still couldn't. In fact, Raidla concludes: "The birth of the draft Constitution has been a vivid example of the struggle between fear and mercy. Some are afraid of the so-called presidential dictatorship; others are not less horrified by the so-called 'Parliamentary Tyranny'." The Assembly, I recall, of the 35 members, was 13 in favour of the President's direct election and 20 decided that the President would be elected by Parliament. As I said here before, today is the 13th time that Parliament is going to castrate the people, the 'half-witnesses', as Runnel calls us. And there are many examples. For example, when Lennart Meri ran out of presidency. I'm not going to quote what he said here, Kalle quoted it. Next time, the people were castrated in 2002. The Riigikogu then drew on the draft submitted by the ambassadors of the Centre Party. Although already the following year, on 12 June 2003, even 71 of our colleagues again came up with a similar draft. Among the supporters, Res Publica had just become a member of the Riigikogu. Yet the bill suffocated two years later. The last time the Riigikogu castrated its own people in 2013. (This is in my 2015 article.) Then water was drawn on the bill submitted by the ambassadors of the Central Party. And today, 2021, there is a 13th attempt when ladies and gentlemen are trying to castrate the people. The people that Runnel says "half-speckers," who have taken their eggs off, do the work they need, and sometimes they sneak. But what do I want to say? I am very disappointed that the Riigikogu has acted in this way throughout its independence. I am very disappointed that the Centre Party, whose proposal in 2015 was to amend the Constitution, which was played out with the votes of 55 envoys, is now in the bush. But we will remind the voters of the Centre Party in detail what the MPs have actually promised and what they do when they castrate the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U120	The time for you is up. The political groups have no more requests to speak, which means that we can go to the vote on this draft decision. But before I introduce you to the proposal of the lead committee, it is a séance that all our colleagues can join us for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the lead committee has proposed to reject the 290 draft at first reading. That is why I am voting on the proposal for a decision to reject the 290 draft decision at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-02-09_U121	There were 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of rejecting the draft, 19 against, no abstentions. Draft decision 290 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. We have exhausted today's agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this day and I wish you the strength for the future. Urmas Reinsalu is expecting all of you to join the support team.
