ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 9th working week Thursday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, we will be able to hand over drafts and enquiries. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! In fact, the group wishes to present to the Minister of Education and Research, Liina Kersna, an agonizing group of the Fatherland, a question about the procurement of rapid tests. The purchase of rapid tests by Selfdiagnostics OÜ for general education schools in the amount of EUR 5132000 has been questioned. The unproclaimed negotiated public procurement was opaque and the honesty of the various companies and the press was called into question. Various media publications have pointed out that the Ministry has unduly preferred one company in this situation. Public procurement aims to ensure the sustainable use of taxpayers' funds, equal treatment of individuals and effective exploitation of competition. The Ministry of Education and Research has twice ignored these important principles within one month. In this regard, we would ask some questions and wait for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U3	Thank you. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau, and the Bureau will decide on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. We have information that some people couldn't get into the system. We'll do the presence check, and if anyone fails, please report to IT. Let's do a presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U4	Eighty members of the delegation registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U5	We can go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I will briefly refer to the main issue of this draft, which has been the subject of long discussion in the trade sector, and which is urgently to be resolved, that more and more workers are waiting for more flexible forms of work from their employers. Employee-friendly developments in working conditions are very welcome and necessary, in particular, so that people can best reconcile their work and private life needs. People in retail trade know from their own hands how often there is concern that work schedules need to be changed due to workers' wishes or to temporarily increase workload due to changes in work volumes. There is also a great deal of seasonal fluctuations in trade, for example in relation to campaigns or holiday seasons. The trend in which short-term jobs are also sought along with other work or activities is still growing and it is clear that the desire for more flexible working time is common in all age groups, whether it is because of another job or because of changing school loads, time-intensive hobbies or other reasons. All of this, however, has at times led to the need to conclude debt-law contracts with a temporary increase in the volume of work, but debt-law contracts do not guarantee the necessary social protection for those performing the work, such as periods of work and rest, holidays, termination of employment contracts, including notice periods and benefits, in the case of debt-law contracts. Modern labour law must accompany changes in the labour market, provide workers with the necessary protection and, at the same time, be flexible enough to remain competitive. This draft law provides a good opportunity to do so and provides for the piloting of variable hour agreements in retail trade for two and a half years to allow flexible working hours to be used. According to the variable hour agreement, the staff member may, in addition to his normal working hours, carry out additional work for a maximum of eight hours per seven-day period. An agreement may be made with a staff member who is employed part-time for a period of seven days of 12 hours or more and whose hourly rate is at least 1.2 times the minimum hourly rate. Thus, in order to protect the interests of the employee, the employer may conclude a variable hour agreement only if the employee earns more than the minimum hourly rate. This year, the minimum hourly rate is EUR 3.48, which means that the employee's hourly rate must be at least EUR 4.18 or 1.2 times the hourly rate in order to conclude a variable hour agreement. Changing hours agreements may only be concluded with employees with valid contracts of employment on the basis of a written application from the staff member. This means that the employment contracts currently in force cannot be unilaterally changed by the employer. The staff member shall have the right to refuse hours exceeding the fixed minimum workload. In other words, all the variable hours that the employer can offer in the framework of the new agreement are voluntary and mutually agreed. The staff member must confirm the acceptance of the variable working hours offered in a form which is capable of being reproduced in writing. The employer must also offer variable hours in advance at least 24 hours in advance. It should be noted, however, that if the staff member is working overtime as agreed, the overtime shall also be reimbursed. If the employer enters into a variable hour agreement, the number of employees with whom the agreement has been concluded at that point in time shall not exceed 17,5% in the undertaking. However, if the composition of the staff changes after the conclusion of the agreements, for example, someone quits, in order to ensure that the proportion continues, it is not necessary to cancel the variable hour agreement with the staff member. However, every time an employer enters into a new variable hour's agreement, the employer must take into account the number of employees with whom the variable hour's agreement has been concluded. One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U7	One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U8	The Changing Hour Agreement does not mean that all working time can be agreed as a working time band. The staff member must have a fixed period of employment agreed upon in the contract of employment, in addition to which the employee and the employer may enter into a variable hour agreement. The agreement gives the employee the opportunity to perform additional variable hours, and variable hours are therefore additional hours that the employer agrees to do in addition to his agreed working hours, but the total working hours and variable hours agreed must not exceed the total working hours. The regulation of the allowanceable variable-hour arrangements shall be of a fixed-term nature and shall remain in force until 14 June 2024. The amendments have been introduced on a fixed-term basis, giving the possibility to assess their effects before the end of the period, together with the social partners, and to decide whether it is appropriate to extend or extend the duration of the variable-hour agreements to other sectors. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party is asking all of you to support the adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U9	Thank you. I do not see any further wish for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act 403, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U10	74 MPs supported the proposal, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U11	We can go to the second item on the agenda. To this end, the Social Democratic Party Group has first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic." The draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur is Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu. Please! I'm sorry, Valdo Randper has a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U12	[[Remote connection]] President-in-Office of the Council. Before the last vote, you didn't give me a call. I would like to propose that in future you try to avoid putting the matter to a vote without giving a call.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U13	The procedural remark was absolutely correct. I hope that no one will question the outcome of the vote. But let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu initiated by the Social Democrats. 434 is its number and its content is to propose to the government to provide funding in the budget for local authorities to actually start working towards the development of sustainable mobility and, in particular, to provide the necessary funding for local authorities to set up and implement their own cycling strategies. What does that mean? This means that we have now reached a time or situation where in the last 30 years disproportionate amounts of financial infrastructure resources have been spent in Estonian cities to promote road traffic. This has gone hand in hand with a very rapid drive in Estonia. Estonia is one of the most cared societies in the European Union. Along with the increase in the number of cars, very much has been made to build new roads, breakthroughs, bridges, multi-level intersections, etc. As a result, car travel has become more comfortable and people have bought more cars. It is possible to continue on the same road and build more cars, and people buy more cars for themselves. Finally, cars and the necessary infrastructure for them will take away a large part of the urban space and alternative modes of movement, whether by bicycle or by foot or by public transport, will become marginal. To imagine what this type of urban planning will bring, there are many examples in the world. Of the wealthy countries, the United States is undoubtedly a good example where most cities are unable to move in any other way than by car. It must either be unemployed, or have a lot of time, or be suicidal in order to ride a bicycle. Estonia, I think, mentally could be part of such a Nordic cultural space and really make a clear turn in the development of its urban space over the next decades. Turn in this direction... Mr Reinsalu and Mr Ligi are having some sort of discussion here. [[Talk and laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U15	Gentlemen, gentlemen! We are now holding a sitting, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U16	Can I continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U17	Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U18	Thank you! In fact, in the next decade, a fundamental change will have to be made in this respect. People's expectations have changed and are changing. We can see it from almost all major cities. The topic of urban space was also a priority in Tallinn and Tartu during the last local elections. And these cities are actually the cities where energy and time have already been spent on the development of wheel strategies, on the systematic reflection of this issue. There is still a long way to go to implement them. But in other cities, the subject is largely in its infancy. So the first question is that people's expectations are actually changing, people are becoming more demanding about their rulers and about their urban space. It is not normal that a child in a city, for example, aged 8 to 9 years, cannot be sent to school by bicycle alone because a parent is afraid that he or she might die. We shouldn't accept this kind of city space. It is not normal for pedestrians, if they are at a slower speed than average, to be unable to cross the road with a green traffic light, because such crossing times have been proposed in the traffic lights cycles that they must be in good shape at sport to safely cross the road. In this draft, we are dealing with one piece of it, the subject of the development of a wheel strategy, and there are two objectives in the narrower direction. The first is, indeed, that those who already ride a bicycle can do so safely. Today, this is not the case in many cities, because there is no separate bicycle infrastructure separated from other traffic. In some cities there is a little more, but there is actually no system-wide network of bicycle routes anywhere in Estonia. And that's not good. Secondly, in addition to ensuring the safety of existing riders, the question is how to encourage people to motivate them to give up their personal transport and to prefer more sustainable modes of transport, in this case light traffic, or bicycle. We know a lot of people who are actually ready to ride a bicycle, they like to do it, they want to use the bike for everyday rides, but they're afraid. They're afraid of other traffic, and that's why they don't use it. In addition to the issue of urban mobility, the environmental aspect is undoubtedly important in this proposal. Greenhouse gas emissions in transport have increased. They have grown rapidly and if, in many other areas, such as energy, waste management and many other places, we have made progress over the last ten years and our environmental footprint has decreased, transport has not decreased. And he's not reduced, of course, because we've had an increase in cars. This trend is unsustainable. This is not sustainable in urban terms, because these cars simply do not fit anywhere but, secondly, they are not sustainable in terms of environmental aspects. We have also agreed climate targets in the European Union and Estonia, which provide for a rapid reduction of transport missions. So far, there has been an agreement [to reduce transport emissions] by 13% by 2030 compared to 2005. Now ambition has grown to 24%. With the existing measures, the steps, the plans that the country has, we will not achieve these objectives. Yes, there is a national mobility development plan, and several cities also have separate development plans. There are many good ideas and, if all these ideas were to materialise, they would probably also be available, but as of now, if the old trends continue, we will not actually achieve these goals. But we need to achieve these objectives, because otherwise, first of all, we cannot afford to have this environmental perspective that we will not achieve them, but secondly, the management mechanism of the European Union's emission reduction system is such that it will cost us real money. In other words, if a country does not meet these targets, it must start to buy a quota and the price of this quota will be presumably high by 2030. And we are only talking about 2030, but by 2050 we have set a target for climate neutrality, and that actually means essentially zeroing transport emissions. Yes, alternative fuels and other things will certainly help here, but it is clear that there must also be a major behavioural change in the use of cars. Now, reducing the use of cars is undoubtedly the easiest way to start with cities where mobility can easily be created as convenient alternatives. We all know that Estonia is a scattered state. If you need to travel 50 or 60 kilometres from a small village to work or somewhere every day, it is very difficult - often not - to create a convenient alternative to public transport. Yes, it is certainly possible to make progress there too, but, in basically, in situations like these, it is much more difficult for us to give up cars in scattered areas, and I think that we should not, first and foremost, demand this from our people, but really think about how we can make the most rapid progress in cities where alternatives are very well available, where distances are small and where the negative effects of carisation are also the greatest in terms of congestion and air pollution. It can be done. Several cities have proven that this can be done, and in Estonia it is undoubtedly feasible and actually necessary. Of course, we know and we have heard these arguments against the fact that local authorities themselves are watching, it is the competence of local authorities, that when they do their road construction projects, they should think about these things. Well, you should, of course you should. Local authorities in Estonia should think about a wide range of topics, not only to think about them, but also to resolve them. But we know they don't do that often. One part of this is undoubtedly a revenue base. In Estonia, the income base of local governments is very narrow. The second point in this very large list of priorities is undoubtedly the question of which issues local authorities consider to be of primary importance to themselves. And we have to be honest with you that the development of cycling routes in most cities is not one of them. With one exception, which is also given as an example, that we have built very many light traffic routes around smaller towns and towns, with the support of European Union funds, by kilometres. We've all seen them. Have a nice trip. There are no road users, but the roads are nice. I'm not saying these have been bad projects. Perhaps in some places, where they suddenly end in the middle of the field, they are not fully and comprehensively thought out, that if you build a road to the next settlement, you should still build it up to the next settlement instead of finishing it. But it must be noted that these projects are largely for two entirely different purposes. The first goal is road safety, so that people do not walk on the road, where death is possible, especially in dark times, as there is a very large part of the year in Estonia. And secondly, they basically serve this kind of health sports or the health movement. They do not largely fulfil the objective of providing an alternative to daily travel for private cars. And in the midst of the cities, in the heart of the city, in the center of the city, there has actually been no development of a comprehensive infrastructure. Our proposal is such a beautiful and simple and forward-looking one: to increase the motivation of local authorities to resolve these issues, to encourage local authorities to really think about these issues systematically and to agree on a network of bike paths, to think through and agree on certain planning or planning issues for urban space, and then to start implementing these projects quickly in the coming years, so that by the end of this decade we can say that in all of Estonia's major cities there is a perfectly high quality daily cycling infrastructure and there is a good, environmentally friendly and healthy alternative to car mobility. To this end, we propose that the government provide the necessary resources in the state budget to support local authorities in this regard. Thank you, and I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U19	Please! And there's been some questions. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U20	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, First of all, this is a really good proposal and it is excellently presented from this remote control. It happened to me that last year, when the kid started going to school, his big dream was to take a bike to school. I first said, "No, no, let's learn the way to school! " And then the weather got so bad that, " But take the three stops on the bus, see, it's raining this morning. " But in fact, I just didn't have the guts to let him ride his bike. At the same time, when children are taken to school by car or when they go by public transport, their impact on movement is much longer, both on independent movement and on health behaviour. You talked a lot about air pollution, urban mobility, climate goals. But is there, in fact, a longer-term health effect on the construction of these bike paths?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U21	Yeah, of course it is. If the question is whether to sit in the car in front of the house and drive the stairs or whether to ride a bicycle every day for just a few kilometres, then naturally the healthy component of the change in mobility is obvious and, of course, positive. Research has proven that. In fact, studies have shown that the movement of public transport compared to, for example, car movements is much more health-friendly as a result of the fact that a stop for public transport still needs to be followed, and even a little foot movement from there. You know this, of course, very well that our health indicators [will deteriorate]. Unfortunately, with the growth of obesity, especially child obesity, we are moving forward with very rapid steps to the more advanced European countries, where these errors were made several decades ago. Unfortunately, there have been few places where we have been able to be smarter. The education of children is actually very important in the context of traffic, which is very well seen in the city of Tallinn. If it's a school break, the traffic jams are half the size. Why is that? Because for one reason or another, parents carry their children to school on a massive scale. This is certainly to some extent also a question of planning a network of educational institutions: where people live, the local government has not built a school or kindergarten. But on the other hand, it is certainly also a question of what the choices of family mobility are. For example, one of the priorities of Tallinn's bike strategy is specifically to ensure the safety of school routes for cyclists. We also know where the educational establishments are located, an analysis has been carried out of where children get to the school. And then, when we go to the intersection by intersection to check out how he gets to school on the way from that house over three, there are generally several intersections along the way where he can get killed if he goes bad. And, well, as a personal example, I take my kid to school on a bicycle so that I ride with him. He rides his bike, I ride my bike. I think he could drive independently in six months or a year, but there are two intersections on this school road where he might die, and that's why I don't dare allow it. There should not be such intersections in Tallinn where a child may be killed by bike.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U22	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ossinovski! In recent days, you have been able to familiarise yourself with one of the budgetary needs, plans and strategies of an Estonian government, a very important local government. Could Tallinn actually need additional support from the state and what could be the order of magnitude when we talk nationwide? To what extent could the state support municipalities to implement this idea that you have introduced here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U24	Thank you, Mr. Kaljulaid. As far as I know, you have also brought yourself up to date with the budgetary issues of an Estonian municipality. It could even be the same municipality. But indeed, when we talk about Tallinn, there is actually a wheel strategy in Tallinn. There may be some things that need to be updated a little bit and clarified, but basically there is a strategic view. The thing is, it hasn't been practically implemented. It has only been carried out in the course of "current road reconstruction" projects, i.e. only if the whole road has been reconstructed, the high-quality infrastructure for cyclists has been set up. For example, quality infrastructure has indeed developed for Reid Road, Gonsiori Street and some other objects. Of course, in the case of Gonsior Street, it cannot be said that these concrete rainwater drains are a disaster. They could only be installed there by someone who never rode a bicycle. It's like a train driving down this bike road, but, well, he's stand-alone, and that means he's safe. Uncomfortable, but safe. But it will certainly also be very important in Tallinn in the coming years that these plans are actually implemented so that we take a major step forward. I have seen that the coalition agreement, which has been concluded in Tallinn, has also highlighted this issue as quite a priority in terms of ensuring the security of the surrounding school area and developing the core network of the city centre. We're already coming in from parts of the city, from quite a number of places, so-called bike path rays, but there's not much of this comprehensive infrastructure in the city centre to be able to travel safely there. Some progress was made this year regarding the construction of bicycle routes. Perhaps this is not quite optimal, but at least I hope that things will move forward in Tallinn. I know that the development of bike paths is also a priority in Tartu and the strategic view is also there. But in the case of other cities, this attention has, in fact, been rather low so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U25	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I couldn't help but find out that local governments are not very interested in bike paths or are somehow indifferent. This may also be the case in Tallinn, I do not know how to comment on it, but this is certainly not the case in Raplamaa, and I do not think that is the case in many places in Estonia. The truth is that the budget is still an obstacle. You mentioned that a little bit too. In my opinion, this is actually one of the most fundamental [problems] that hinders rapid progress in this area. Believe me, not only should Tallinn be in focus, but really Estonia should be in place, and not only in cities is a problem, but also the cycling paths between settlements and smaller settlements are just as important. Do you share my opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U27	Thank you, Mr. Hepner. I certainly didn't want to offend the local authorities, so if that's what it looked like, I'm sorry about that. I wanted to say, quite empatheticly, compassionately, that indeed the revenue base is narrow and the statutory tasks that local authorities need to carry out for this revenue base in the budget are many, and that this choice of bike paths tends to shift downwards in so-called priority. I am not suggesting here that, for example, if you are unable to provide the necessary social services for older people to cope on a daily basis and, on the other hand, want to invest in bike paths, it is perfectly understandable that it is chosen that old people can do well either in home services or in general care. So, yeah, that's the main concern. Are all bike paths equally important? No, it's not. Here I disagree. In fact, it is necessary to prioritise, based on where the greatest "substitution effect" can be achieved, the greatest impact that people are switching from a private car to a bicycle. This is generally the case in larger cities. It is simply possible to achieve this effect more than in some smaller settlements. We imagine that we are building 10 kilometers of bike roads from one centre to another in the municipality, for example, but if there are 150 people living in this other centre, or okay, 500 people, its use is likely to be beautifully narrow. In terms of road safety, this may be necessary and from this perspective they have been made so far, but in terms of replacement effect, the construction of the city's bike paths in this larger centre is likely to have a greater impact. But ultimately, of course, safe and light infrastructure should be developed not only in large cities but also in smaller ones. In fact, our proposal is for the government to provide appropriate resources and local authorities, according to their own interest, to then apply for them. It still assumes that so much priority will be given to this issue also on the ground and that it is essentially intended to contribute to it, because it is not only money, it is also planning, it is a reflection of how these things work. So I certainly do not think that this proposal should be closed for small municipalities. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U28	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is about the same thing as the previous one. Of these small places, settlements and rural municipalities, which are actually very connected to the cities as well, when we look at what is happening around Tallinn, the hinges, but also around other large cities, people come to work in the capital or in the large city with personal transportation. They also lack the opportunity to reach a large city by bicycle or small town. This means that they too need a strategy to connect their cycling and light traffic routes to the urban system. It seems to me that this cooperation between a large city and a small town [between], creating such a common strategy is also an important issue. Does this bill also allow you to ask for help on cooperation projects between municipalities? Is it possible for local government associations to ask for help? Since there are often national roads between the municipality and the city, can the state become a third partner? Is it possible to finance such cooperation projects here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U30	Yeah, that's a good idea, I'm sure you could have that chance. If we approve this proposal today, of course the government should foresee this possibility of cooperation. As far as connecting remote areas with cycling roads is concerned, it has generally been proven that the optimal distance for daily work or school or wherever people are willing to travel by bike and leave the car at home is not more than 10 kilometres, rather less. Let's say it's always optimal to look at a radius of five kilometres, but a radius of five kilometres is the whole city for most Estonian cities, and there's still a little bit of urban sprawl. I know there are people in Tallinn, for example, who take a bicycle from Viimsi to work downtown. Good people, I have to say. I don't think most of them could be so athletic. I'd hesitate myself if I lived in Viimsi to see if I would come there and back on my bike every day. For example, a combination of a train and a bicycle could be encouraged. On this subject, we remember, there was also a rather serious controversy when Elron, in his train shortage, introduced a bike ticket, which is not very expensive, but rather sends a message to leave your bikes behind. Someone was also able to give a rather bad comment that there would be too many wheels in Estonia soon or some peculiar position there. In fact, such traffic could certainly be more encouraged where it is possible, perhaps where the train line is going, because no one is taking bicycles on the bus on a massive scale. But yes, such cooperation projects could still be promoted, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U31	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U32	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, our government had a programme for the creation of a network of local road traffic routes and trails. But now you're at the pump. First of all, good luck so your company doesn't turn into another poodle like the green ones ever did. But speaking frankly, Misha, your closest fighting companion, is a car faith, and you, as the president of the city, are more of a bicycle believer. Who do you think's in charge? The draft proposal is for next year's state budget, but this train is already gone. Why don't you tell me how you succeed in [Tallinn] or who's on top? These [bicycle] tracks are already painted red in some places and, as you said, the money is scarce. But how are you doing with Misha? Who will prevail in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U33	Thank you! There's no pump here, I looked, there's no remote control, no pump. But this so-called your government, even though every government of the Republic is the government of all of us. But this government of yours, like you said, in the coalition agreement, it didn't really do anything. Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Economy did not, in essence, take the lead in this matter. At present, however, different EU funds are being developed, including the recovery fund, as climate objectives have become more priority. A little bit of the budget money will also be given to the municipalities, but generally to those cities where there is already some sort of strategic vision. We would really like to foresee that local authorities have the necessary money to think these things through and develop a strategy to this end. The implementation of Tallinn's bike strategy is certainly a priority for the new city government when it takes office, and I certainly would not like to say that it is mainly about money for Tallinn. No. The money that needs to be found must be found and, of course, given the size of Tallinn's budget, it is possible to do so. Rather, the question is that, especially in the centre of Tallinn, where the space is very narrow, there is just very little space because the use of space in the centre of Tallinn is under so much pressure and has so many different functions that it is not so easy to find places to build high-quality wheel infrastructure. It requires design, reflection, etc. and then, of course, construction. So I think that real changes in this respect will come and we will work to make it happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U34	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U35	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the City Council. Before the local elections, everyone in Tallinn had a theme, and rightly, these red bike paths. I remember we were in a debate with Raimond and who else was there, Martin was in a debate, and we had a common understanding that these red bike paths were poisonous, they were dangerous and ugly. The question is that if the Social Democrats now come and want to get more money out of the state budget, I support this initiative, Tallinn must get it right, but the question is: on what date will these red bike paths disappear? A clear answer, please! Will the Sots now be fulfilling the promise that we had after the local elections, or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U36	Do you want blue? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You're upset by the color, I understand. I like red, I don't say... But if the essence of the answer is, of course, it's not the optimal solution that was made. Those poisonous things, the paint was poured down the sewer. What's more, how fucked up it was, it's pretty incredible on the one hand. On the other hand, it's a good thing they're doing anything in that direction. I think that from now on, we should do better. I believe that we will also come to the fact that we do not really need to paint our bike routes in full, to red. The experience of other cities shows that only dangerous sections, such as intersections, are painted where it is important for drivers to notice that there is a bicycle road next to it. But if it's going elsewhere, at the same height as the sidewalk, for example, does it have to be all red, as we now have at the Estonia Avenue, where it's parallel to the sidewalk and such brutal red. But as a cyclist, you, I know, don't ride a bike, I have to say, it has its own positive charm or effect. In Estonia, the culture of cyclists is actually very few for pedestrians. Perhaps when you ride a bicycle, you can almost always see that pedestrians come on a bicycle road. In other cities, where cycling is more advanced, people view bicycle paths almost as they do car paths. It's a different way of moving, and I'm not going there, and if I go, I'll look both ways, I'll cross the road and I'll leave this place. Take, for example, the second place where [bicycle road] is not painted, in Snell Park right back here. The road is even separated in half, but you can't actually ride a bike on these roads because pedestrians and dogs and children go there on a bicycle road. The practical experience is that if you ride a bicycle down a red road, there are no pedestrians. In this sense, it visually works, works quite certainly and has certainly made the lives of pedestrians and cyclists easier. He's ugly, period one. And point two, I don't think we need that in the long view. We should create bike paths that are visually well separated from other modes of movement and should, however, be painted only on dangerous sections, whether in curves or crossings, in order to get additional attention there, but in other places it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U37	There is a procedural question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I didn't actually get a clear answer as to whether these red bike paths would disappear or not. I would ask the President for an answer as to whether the President received a reply. Before the election, you said a different story, didn't say that it was a good thing that anything was done. It wasn't like an election booth. Mr President of the sitting! Will [these roads] disappear, or won't they disappear? A clear objective expertise on this issue would be requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U39	Yes, but, dear Urmas, it wasn't a procedural question. The fact that we don't get an answer is so common in this hall. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U40	Thank you. I'd like to come and help you. Wouldn't you be right to interrupt such empty stories? These are not procedural questions. It is, in fact, a question of the dignity of Parliament, so that these stories cannot be presented in this way. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U41	Yeah, it wasn't a procedural question either. However, I must say that there is a limit somewhere where the dignity of Parliament will suffer when the President pushes down the Members' questions. I don't think it's worth crossing that line either. And that doesn't depend on the ambassador... [[Laughter.]] It doesn't depend on the ambassador. Then, Jürgen, you wouldn't get a word from me at all. Mikhail Lotman has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Evgeny! I am also a cyclist, and my concern relates not so much to the internal roads of the municipalities, but to those roads that unite the municipalities. If I drive from Tartu to Põlva, for example, some tea parts have a great bike to ride, like fun and a flower party to drive there. But then the road suddenly disappears because the second municipality begins. It just disappears, and sometimes very dangerous situations arise. The roads disappear where the driver can't see. Wouldn't you have any suggestion for such situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U43	Thank you. First of all, I will reply to Urmas Reinsalu that the meeting of the Tallinn City Council begins today at 4pm on Vana-Viru Street. If you want to discuss these issues, then no doubt this place and the time are there, you are welcome. The invitation has been sent to you. Now, as far as these light traffic routes are concerned, I actually touched on this topic in my presentation, this is not the immediate focus of our proposal. While the proposal does not explicitly rule out this, the focus of our theme setting is actually at the heart of the city to develop cycling infrastructure in order to provide a safe and convenient alternative to passenger cars. That's the idea. These light traffic routes, which are built out of cities in the form of rays, have generally had a different objective: either health sports or road safety. These are important things. I am not saying that these are not important things, just they are not the focus of our proposal. I also mentioned that, indeed, some of the projects that have been carried out with the support of euro money have been very necessary and successful, but sometimes it seems to me that they have been built in such places and in such a way that it was rather based on the fact that the money was and could be built somewhere and then we made it there. There are probably also examples where the bike road ends with the municipal border, but often it ends where the money ends. So they built as many miles as they got, and then it ran out. It is true that infrastructure must be developed in a comprehensive manner in these places, and this is actually one of the fundamental principles of the development of total traffic. We can't imagine building a road like Paide to Türi, building four kilometers and then breaking it up, and then it's going to be a field. Well, it's not conceivable that we do this. If we want to fix it or build a new road, we will do it in full, so that it performs some sort of substantial traffic function. But in light traffic, we haven't started like this. We've come from the fact that the bullets, there's money and there's a place, we're gonna pull a couple hundred meters down here, but what happens next, we'll see. In fact, the same thing has happened to these red bike paths in Tallinn, too, that in very many places the integrity has not developed. You drive, you drive, you drive down the bike road, and then he just runs out of clicks. In this sense, there really is a problem when there is no comprehensive planning. So I am certainly not opposed to the creation of ways of safe inter-urban mobility for easy-mobility, which can still be supported, but the focus of this proposal is a little bit elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U44	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U45	Honourable Chairman of the Council! I am very sad that you are leaving the Riigikogu. But I have to tell you first that it is quite depressing that the final drafts of the Sots are of the kind that the state must give money to the municipalities and tell them what to do, that the law must have fixed some amount for some purpose and that the state budget must regulate market prices. Tell me, is there any way that you could draw a debate like this out of what the state has to do and what it doesn't have to do? The municipality itself is also some kind of unit, some of the country that should make its own decisions, fund them itself and also cooperate with the neighbouring municipality if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U46	Thank you, honourable Councilman. I do not agree with your assessment of the Socialist Bills. These have been good drafts, too bad the coalition has not supported them. As regards the reduction of electricity prices, for example, which is a very, very important thing, and many others, I have a two-piece... Mr. Ligi, you don't even care what I say. I'm very upset. My answer is two parts. Firstly, I agree that because of the autonomy and tasks of the local government, they should essentially manage their own development, and that they will do so as they will, but the revenue base allocated to them is weak. There are different reasons why it is, but it is. And the fact that it's been attempted by one formula or another to level it out in 95% of the municipalities, it's actually not adequate in my opinion, and that's what I'm saying quite seriously. In fact, the State has not created an adequate model of local government funding with the corresponding tasks. We had the hope that at the same time, when the administrative reform was being carried out, this understanding could have emerged, and in fact these discussions were at the level of the government. Different ministries reviewed the tasks performed by the state and what the municipality is doing to see if anything could be brought into government administration, something to give up and with it to modify the revenue base. These discussions failed; they did not produce any results at all. [[Talking in the hall.]] No, there was a question of bringing the tasks up and down.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U47	[[Jürgen Ligi comments on the matter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U48	Yeah. But, unfortunately, it didn't work. Part of it, of course, was that ministries had certain special interests; they did not want to give up their money levers. But the other side was actually that our administrative reform succeeded suboptimally, I'd say so. In some places, such as islands, we have an island-sized municipality. In some places there is a municipality almost the size of a county, and in some places there is some kind of complete mush. Take Võru County, for example. The city is separate in Võru county, half the size of the county is up around the city and half the size of the county is down, from one border to the next almost. After all, money moves mainly through services that are consumed by people living in the city. The city must offer them and offer them not only to its own people, but also to those who transfer their income to another municipality. In other municipalities, such as Saaremaa, there is no such question. I think it is difficult for local authorities to find a coherent and reasonable financing model. So I really think that this is one of the greatest failures in the management of the Estonian state, that this system has not been created, and to demand that it be done autonomously, is neither right nor dignified. I know that your own weather approach is to be taken away from them all, money and tasks. That's right. I know your position. Tell them to make a fire and that's enough for them. I have a different view, but this is a broader philosophical debate, and on this basis, these decisions could certainly also be of a different nature. In fact, there are no decisions at all today; at the moment, this system has been allowed its own way. Some minor changes, one way or the other, have created a situation in which I do not think it is worthwhile to use the argument that they have money, let them see what they do. This is the first part of my answer. The second part of my answer concerns the general interest and the individual interest. There are certain issues where the provision of a service or investment is based on the needs of a particular municipality. That is their interest, and consequently it can be said that yes, they should deal with it themselves. But it is not the case with all the topics. For example, quality education. Its offer, I think, is not just one of the interests of one municipality; it is actually also more generally the interest of the state that quality education is guaranteed. If we take climate targets as an example, I think that there is greater interest in society as a whole and in the state, not in a particular municipality. Yeah, you could say they should give it more priority too. But it is not only in the interests of these authorities that local authorities behave in one way or the other, but it is in the interests of the whole country. And if it is in the interests of the whole country, I think it is also right to motivate it financially, because we want these objectives to be achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U49	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U50	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Evgeny, for the calm luck of this debate! That this debate is very necessary in this Chamber of the Riigikogu is also an indication of what the questions and comments have been. I think this debate is a vivid demonstration of a modern understanding of what a wheel strategy could contain and how holistically the problem needs to be approached. But I'm sure we're not really inventing a bicycle here. There are certainly countries from which ideas could be collected and, to some extent, taken as an example. What have you been seeing or missing? Can you tell me where these things are well thought out? And can you tell me what kind of money distribution should be minimal in the first race to even take the wheel strategy off the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U51	Thank you! As I said, it is clear that the best examples in Europe are those countries where daily cycling is very high. It is very high there, not because these people are madly fond of riding their bikes, but because the state has at one point created the necessary facilities, the necessary infrastructure. Along with this, the number of bicycle users has started to grow and a culture has emerged. At one point, this culture is becoming generational. This is precisely why, for example, Tallinn's bike strategy highlights the issue of school routes. This culture grows into young riders, who as adults become people who are more likely to use bicycles because they are used to it throughout their lives. So the Netherlands is certainly a good example, Denmark is certainly a good example, there are also a number of other countries where, indeed, bicycles are much used in everyday movements. Well, cities, such as Copenhagen or Amsterdam, are actually big cities, but they travel a lot by bike. It's not just a bicycle route. In any case, bicycle paths are the basis for making it possible for you to travel safely, but this also concerns, for example, general urban planning. That, for example, in the city centre, the speed of cars is limited, that we do not have large highways that are dangerous for people and for light motorists. This also means a bike parking system. We know the front of the Nordic train stations, where entire parking houses have been made for bicycles. In Tallinn, there are ten parking spaces in front of the Baltic Station, figuratively speaking, and that is it. So it certainly needs a holistic strategic approach. How much money do you need? In fact, of course, the implementation of these strategies is a process with a very long twist, also because some things, such as parking, can be done quickly, lines can be drawn down on the roadways quickly, but the fact that the creation of a system of separate infrastructure really means designing as well as transforming the urban space as a whole. Something's gonna cost this bike tea room. In general, it is logical and reasonable that it comes at the expense of narrowing the roads. It's not like that everywhere. So it's actually taking a long time. This is our first proposal. We have not actually foreseen any financial amounts in this particular draft, but I think it could be about 20 million a year. That's my personal opinion. There should be a measure from which, firstly, municipalities could make money in order to develop, think through, put these [bicycle] corridors into their plans and then gradually start implementing them in the future. This is certainly not the kind of thing that can be done in one year. But I think a couple hundred million for ten years. I think that the quality of the wheel infrastructure would be much better in Estonian cities. And, of course, the municipalities would put more of their money in there. It seems like a lot of money, but if you compare it with the financial resources that are put into the construction, repair, maintenance of the roads, it is actually a small amount of money in the big picture. So that is the question of whether we prioritise this, whether or not we want to bring about this change in mobility.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U52	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U53	Thank you. It is in the context of public health that I consider myself to be very important, and in the sense that it is necessary to combine it with what is useful, as it says here. But when you listen to your performance, it seems to me that you have not been outside Tallinn very much and are talking about Tallinn's affairs. You also mention that things may not be so good elsewhere. I'd say Pärnu has been very good leaders on this subject. In Pärnu there is a very well-developed and advanced bike network, there is also a website to see it all. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the Tallinn Council's eloquence is a little away from here, here the talk and opinions go too Tallinn-centred. I would rather ask what this distribution of money is supposed to be and whether the distribution of money should really give such a signal that do nothing until the state supports you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U54	No, there is no need for such a signal, but it is true that a large part of the municipalities have done nothing, even without discussion as to whether or not the state should support it. We probably have a different understanding of what this wheel strategy is, what quality wheel infrastructure is. In Pärnu there is very little quality wheel infrastructure. Fortunately, there are many parks in Pärnu and very many roads have little traffic, so it is safe to travel without it, but we are talking about roads separated from other traffic and reserved for cyclists only. Pärnu is undoubtedly one of the difficult places in the implementation of the bike strategy with Tartu because there is a river and the bridge infrastructure is definitely one of those places where it is difficult to create a separate space for cyclists with a lack of space, because the major highways come on and there is little space. In cities like these, it always divides the network of bike paths, as there are fewer places to get over anyway. That is why Tartu has created separate pedestrian bridges to promote light traffic. Pärnu, as far as I know, hasn't done it. So the city of Pärnu certainly has a lot of room for improvement, as in many other cities. So, no, I certainly do not want to highlight anyone negatively here, I would like to say in general that in Estonia and also in local governments, and also for the people of Estonia, this topic and the priority of this topic are still developing. It changed that city space has different expectations than just speeding through the car quickly, but it is still in its early stages. Our question is that today, in essence, the state will decide the major investment projects of local governments, which will be realised in a five to ten-year perspective. And the breakthroughs, the same bridges across the river. We would like, and I think that Estonia needs, that when considering these new projects, the goal is actually to reduce the number of cars, not to design these things by counting that cars are always coming up and that more roads and new breakthroughs are needed here and there. In order to take account of the scenario of reducing and, as part of this, ensuring safe, separate infrastructure for pedestrians as well as bicycles and other light motor vehicles for all new objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U55	Thank you very much. No further questions. We can go to another waitress and that is Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission. I remind the members of the Riigikogu that each member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one question for each rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to present what has been discussed and what has happened in the Commission. A rather meaningful debate has already been put behind us, but let us see whether or not the Commission's affairs will have the same meaningful debate. The Commission addressed this draft at its meeting on 15 November. Ten members participated, and Priidu Ristkok, the Head of the Transport Development and Investment Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Head of Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance, were also officials and specialists. Raimond Kaljulaid, member of the Riigikogu, also attended the meeting of the committee. I don't know, specifically stated in the protocol. One of the aspects which sounded during the Commission's debate and which gave rise to a certain discussion would be suspended. First of all, the bill was introduced by Kalvi Tõud, who spoke about a number of aspects, which also sounded in this Chamber, but the discussion was much longer in this Chamber. The cliff was a little more laconic, but it also introduced the draft very meaningfully and very well. The discussion went on to specialists, and first of all it should be mentioned that the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications said that this draft is very clearly supported by this vision and the directions set out in the Mobility Development Plan 2021-2035. He said that, according to the development plan, the Cohesion Fund will be prepared to allocate money during the funding period 2021 to 2027 and that at the moment there will be a financial allocation of 42 million for the three large cities of Tallinn, Tartu and Pärnu. This amount must be increased by 30% by the municipality, which means that cities could invest around 60 million in the infrastructure for light traffic. We're only talking about light traffic routes. Then we went to Priidu Ristkok. He spoke of the vision of how important it is, in fact, that local authorities themselves have a strategy for the development of light traffic routes and that their activities depend very much on them. It confirmed that additional resources of between 5 and 25 million were also planned. Then one of the members of the committee asked how and how much money would be allocated outside these three cities, because we are talking about three large cities, but there are still a number of municipalities in Estonia. Specialists in the Ministry of Finance mentioned that 25 million were planned outside these three large cities. It went on to say that very often local authorities invest money in sports objects, and it is the road network that is usually not developed. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications said that yes, indeed it is very difficult to assess where the funds are going. Or, normally, the problem is that if there is a section of light traffic routes in the development of infrastructure, local authorities usually try to get money to develop the entire infrastructure, i.e. to build a network of roads, lighting and other objects together with a road of light traffic. It is quite problematic to take the road to light traffic separately from this project and calculate the cost of this project. They asked if the Ministry was working on it. Yes, it was confirmed that the Ministry is working on this and that it is now asking what are the important strategic objects that will be financed with public money in the future. We were talking about light traffic routes again. They asked when a financing scheme would be developed. It was promised that this would be done by the end of January. In short, it's work. Finally, procedural decisions were taken. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 20 November, today. 9 was in favour, 1 was neutral. And a final vote on the draft was decided. There were also 9 people in favour and 1 was impartial. Such a brief overview of what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U57	You have questions too. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U58	Thank you, dear waitress. This question: did the Commission identify the state of play of cycling routes, cycling strategies in different Estonian cities? Tallinn and Tartu are known that something is being done there, could be better, but there is a strategic view. But what about all the other cities? Was the Commission able to identify what the situation was?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U59	Thank you for your question. It was generally said, but it was more of a broader story. The representative of the Ministry of Finance has just stressed and also mentioned that this situation... Can't say he did, but he was critical of it. He mentioned several times that the drafting of such strategies or the design of such strategies should be a working document for practically all local authorities, and this process should be carried out. He didn't say on the critical note that it was not done, but it could be said in his words that this situation was not the best and he suggested that it be dealt with. And indeed, it is a point of thinking whether it is a mandatory document or how compulsory it is, but there was no more detailed description of the situation at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U60	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Actually, I had this question for the initiators, but I'm asking you. The construction of bicycle paths is costly, time-consuming and all other resources. When Mr Evgeni mentioned Denmark and the Netherlands here, I want to point out that these are actually completely different situations. In the Netherlands, at least when I talk about Amsterdam, a very simple and inexpensive decision was made: just bicycles have priority in every traffic situation. He has the privilege of walking in front of both pedestrians and cars. It's a bicycle. It's stopping. That's it. Has the Commission not discussed this cheaper and actually more efficient way of making bicycles a priority in traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U62	Thank you. Thank you for your question and I understand your question. But this discussion didn't go in that corner. In fact, the discussion was more about the construction of infrastructure in the Commission and how to build this infrastructure more effectively. The restructuring of traffic rules or other such aspects has not been addressed by the Commission on this occasion.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U63	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U64	[[Remote connection]] Good waitress! You've had a closer look at how our administration works. In the past, there were some opinions in this Chamber that local authorities themselves would be able to deliver. How do you feel that we currently have a structure that allows local authorities to plan precisely how people can move, how they can use the wheel as conveniently as possible, how it is connected to all other mobility options and how to make daily cycling easier? Is this central coordination sufficient, or should we do something else in this direction, and could this wheel strategy be a step in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U65	Thank you for your question. That's a really interesting question. If you think of it that way, it is a question of a slightly broader picture, because it actually seems to me that this issue has now been put on the head of the local government and said that the local government has to deal with it. What is this general picture, and who is responsible for this picture? I'd like to say the Road Administration, but usually we're talking about places in the center of town, problematic places in cities are downtown areas. The kind of organization that would have the overall picture or who would be responsible for it would do the job on a daily and mechanical basis, I don't even know how to bring it out. Perhaps this is the place of thinking whose task it is to carry out such a plan or action, and what is this agency or the organisation that looks at the whole picture, will take the next steps to realise these activities. In general, it seems to me that there could be a point in creating a structure, and we need to talk about it and think about who and who and in what form it could be implemented. The city of Tallinn is clearly the largest city. He does what he sees, but the way other local authorities operate is maybe a little chaotic. There were also examples in this hall that the bicycle route connects two municipalities, but it is intermittent, somewhere it is, nowhere it is. But it is clear that this depends on how local authorities were able to apply for money and how good they were when they applied for money from funds or European funds. As a result of this discussion, it seems to me that there is no such general picture, and rather, I repeat myself, this task has been assigned to local authorities, which is not bad either, but from the point of view of creating a general picture, I think, it is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U66	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U67	Thank you. Unfortunately, I am not very familiar with what is happening in the Committee on Economic Affairs and, just in case, I ask whether you did not come up with a question or whether you did not discuss that, even if we have a very good bicycle network and strategies and everything works, whether these bicycles are available in the city centre. We know that private entrepreneurs are actively offering bike rental in Tallinn. We know that there is a more or less municipal system in Tartu, also thanks to European projects. There isn't any in other cities. There are two sides to this coin. There may be nice bike paths, but people may have certain reasons, even for financial reasons [complicated to use them]. Or just there's no need for [bicycle], there's no place to keep it, they'd like to rent it temporarily to use bike roads today. Have you discussed this side of the coin?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U68	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, there was no such discussion in the committee. In the Commission, the general discussion came out of the issue of the construction of light traffic routes and moved towards moving more along these roads, mostly by bicycle. In fact, the discussion was that there are now many new means of transport that travel along light traffic routes. It is not quite right to deal with this only from the point of view of the bicycle road. And since the discussion became such that we were talking about other light traffic vehicles, scooters and other equipment, there was no separate discussion of bicycles, and that is why the discussion was more about infrastructure development.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U69	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Tell me whether the Social Democratic Party Group has also submitted any analyses or studies, because I know that 463 of my proposed draft has been accused of having neither research nor analysis carried out on this draft. Did the Social Democratic Party Group carry out any studies and did they submit them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U71	Thank you for your question. I don't recall any research or analysis being submitted. In the course of the discussion, a number of local government documents were referred to, which had been carried out by local authorities, but specifically no study, no new study had been submitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U72	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U74	Mr. Island, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U75	[[Remote connection]] Yes, I am simply pointing out for the protocol and perhaps also for the good colleague and friend of Saaremäe Üllar that the draft, which we are currently dealing with, is a draft decision of the Riigikogu and, in this case, the request for a study is very questionable, contrary to the draft law which he referred to and which he will defend after a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U76	I'm opening negotiations. Raimond Kaljulaid has received a mandate to speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, we had such a hunch with the group that such a passionate subject as riding bikes would create a discussion in this Chamber, and we very much welcome this discussion. I would take this opportunity to comment on the views of some of the ambassadors. Mr Ernits, who was very honourable, spoke and recalled that indeed, in the action plan of the government set up in 2019, there was such a point that municipalities would be supported in implementing cycling strategies and building bike paths. Unfortunately, with the help of a very good colleague, Jaak Juske, we did make a written request on this in the past, we put a written question to Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Asa, and we learned from the answer that, in fact, the previous government was not very active in the implementation of this point in the action plan and of the point in the coalition agreement, and there was nothing concrete to show about this issue at the time of the break-up of the government. Now, of course, there is no longer a principle in the programme and action plan of the new government that has taken office. Therefore, this government cannot be required to do so, as in the case of the previous government, directly on the basis of the Coalition Agreement. There was also talk about climate objectives, which Mr Ossinovski very much emphasised in this draft. Indeed, I believe that we should certainly address this draft from the point of view of the general objectives of climate policy. The Commission's rapporteur also referred to the development plan for transport and mobility for the years 2021 to 2035. As we know, this development plan also envisages the volume of public investment and, if you look at it, EUR 2 billion is intended to promote and develop inter-urban road transport, to build four-line roads, which in itself is not the wrong target, but only in the order of 200 million goes to develop sustainable mobility in cities. They certainly are not in the right proportion. I think that this is an issue that also the highly respected members of the government and members of the Riigikogu should consider and consider whether it is in line with the commitments made by Estonia to meet its climate objectives. Now, Mr Korb has rightly mentioned that, indeed, the Commission was given an overview by the government, of the possible instruments which the municipalities will have to use to resolve this issue in the coming years. But here, of course, there is also the challenge of [trace that] these instruments would still go to cities to develop sustainable mobility, not for example to build a city's edge or some kind of road to light traffic for health sports. And maybe more. My colleague Saaremäe also asked about studies. I would recommend that you look at another draft, which I hope will also have a debate in the next few weeks in the Riigikogu, and which concerns the possible limitation of the speed of light motion on the sidewalks. It also refers to a study on the fact that people, such as over 50% in the capital city, feel threatened by electric drives. This safety aspect was also addressed by Riina Sikku and Jevgeni Ossinovski. Indeed, this draft law also refers to studies. Finally. Mr Jürgen Ligi actually had a very relevant question, but since he is unfortunately no longer in this Chamber, I am not going to answer that question. Mr Reinsalu, I would like to say to you that thank you very much for your support. You said you would support this bill. I hope that this means that the entire Group of the Fatherland will also support this draft. Thank you very much for this constructive reflection and discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U78	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. We have a commission... Urmas Reinsalu still wants to talk, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U79	I just wanted to say thank you to Raimond Kaljulai for the good word. Yeah, I support it, it's not a secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U80	So, now we have also exhausted the speeches on the ground and we can go to the proposal of the commission, which is to have a final vote on draft 434. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group 434. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U81	The proposal was supported by 15 votes to two, with one abstention. But now this is the story that since it... Mr. Hepner, may I have your attention, please? Thank you! I wanted to inform you and everyone else that to send this decision to the Government of the Republic and to make a proposal would have required a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, which is why this decision was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U82	Our third item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to reduce the price increase in electricity. Here, too, there is a need for a majority in membership. This [draft] will be introduced to us by the initiators of the Riigikogu member Urmas Reinsalu. The procedural [question] is Mr Reinsalu himself. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U83	Yes, it is quite correct to say that the next draft in question, where it is proposed to initiate the draft law, is the need for a majority in composition. However, in the case of the previous provision, I do hold a different opinion from the point of view of the Bureau, which, in my opinion, would not have been necessary. But here we have a divisive legal understanding of the interpretation of the Constitutional provision and the meaning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U84	But you are still welcome to present your proposals to the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U85	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a crucial issue for Estonian society as a whole, for Estonian consumers, for Estonian entrepreneurs. This concerns the general increase in the cost of living resulting from the sudden, exponential price shock on electricity. First and foremost, due to the rise in energy prices in Estonia last month, we saw more than 6% inflation, but the Ministry of Finance is forecasting inflation to reach 8% in the first months of next year. Eight percent! We need to understand that, at present, the monetary policy system of the European Central Bank has limited opportunities for countries to contain and hold back inflation. They can generally consist of either a contraction of costs or a second option is a reduction in taxes on goods causing inflationary pressure, which is unambiguously linked to reducing the overall inflationary burden. At the moment, we have a paradoxical situation in that, even in the current year, there is a forecast on the basis of data provided at least a month ago, I am also relying here on the accounts made by Tõnis Möldri, the country's surplus from the tax revenue of CO2 quota units compared to what was forecast last year for the state budget, at EUR 120 million. EUR 120 million! In other words, we have a situation where, on the one hand, there is an increase of more than two or three times the price level for electricity, and, on the other hand, this increase is further enhanced by the fact that consumers, both domestic consumers and businesses, have to pay off the additional tax burden and burdens resulting from the increase in the price of energy carriers. This paradoxical situation is certainly unreasonable, not fair and also unwarranted in terms of economic rationality. In this context, the Isamaa Group started already in September A proposal to the Government of the Republic to reduce the increase in the price of electricity, as one of our several proposals. This specific proposal provided, firstly, for the initiation of the State Budget Act [the draft] in this way, since it was submitted before the draft State Budget Act was passed on to Parliament, in order to provide in the State Budget Act for the maintenance of the current rates of excise duties on fuel and electricity and not for their increase. This Parliament, in its partial form, has also supported this at a later stage, while the increase in electricity and fuel excise duties has been postponed for a year. This certainly is not enough, such an expected additional price pressure is encoded, but, at least in the sense of the more acute problem, that we will also have regulatory price increases in this price increase cascade due to the rise of these excise duties, it is certainly reasonable that this will not happen in the spring. Another such central point in this proposal for a government is to initiate a draft law, indeed, that the government should come up with a draft law, the substance of which, in a single sentence, is such that, as is known to all consumers, it is now consumer-neutral, be it domestic consumers or industrial users, and provide that the renewable energy fee should be covered. We are not saying in any way that the renewable energy charge should simply be zeroed out; there is a legal expectation for those who invest in the renewable energy sector. This remuneration would be compensated by a public contribution from the income from CO2 emission quotas. I mean, the model we have proposed is not, first of all, a common European logic on how to comply with the renewable energy directives, a unique phenomenon. Countries have solved it differently. Some countries, like Estonia, have chosen to pay direct electricity consumers this additional burden to encourage renewable energy production or investment. However, some countries do so either as a targeted general payment or as a provision for the state budget. This is certainly possible under European law. Secondly, covering this proposal, the size of this proposal, the level of these prices are slightly floating in terms of volume, they are prognostic, how much lower the cost burden of electricity would be on consumers, both businesses and households, this year is EUR 100 million. I would remind you that we are expected to have an additional budget of EUR +120 million for the sale of quota units of CO2 already this year. The right thing is that it is divided into two parts according to the European rulebook: the parties can be used without a dedicated purpose, to carry out any tasks on a budgetary basis, and the other half is more specifically intended to achieve the renewable energy targets. This proposal is simple. First of all, the central issue is whether there is political will in this room, whether there is a political will to address a question such as mitigating the price shock of electricity for consumers and reducing the inflationary pressure on our economic environment. That's the first question. The second question to us is that this measure, taken separately, is firstly implemented quickly, secondly, it is uniform, and thirdly, it does not require any additional bureaucratic administrative burden, no statements or paperwork, but simply people discover that it is less than 10% lower than the electricity bill. This is certainly very important for industrial users as well as, of course, for domestic consumers in terms of this allocation. So our proposal to Parliament as a whole is to support this draft decision. Regrettably, this draft decision, like a turtle, has moved into this great hall, I do not know what motives he has gained so long in the Committee on Economic Affairs. But that doesn't mean we can't do it without stretching. The state budget has not been adopted by itself either. It is one thing in the state budget to foresee this money , another is that the law describing the renewable energy fee must be amended accordingly. This, too, is not complicated at all, that is to say, in fact, in the case of these renewable energy paragraphs, that this rule in force so far is compensated by a budget allocation. Here, this payment system, as it has been, can by its very nature be completely the same as Elering is fulfilling this role today. We need to understand that the electricity market forecasts are very floating. But surely we can predict this notion that we are trying to convey some kind of signal that it was very short-lived. No, it wasn't short-term. We still have to take into account the maintenance of multiple price burdens for electricity, at least in the medium term. Talking about being an alternative to such rapid measures taken by the state, just a vague statement that renewable energy investments must be supported, yes, these renewable energy investments must be made, must be supported, but this is a matter with a very long-term perspective. The question now is to take acute steps. I would like to emphasise that, in addition to the fact that there is a win for consumers here, there is a win for both households and our businesses, the very important consideration is that, at least with a factor of 1.5, it also reduces inflation by this amount, i.e. in percentage terms. A separate question is what has been pointed out by our regulator on the electricity market, the Competition Authority: whether, in the case of such high electricity prices, such a system of compensation for renewable energy charges is even compatible with the European Union's state aid rules, as to whether it is over-compensation. It is an independent question, we did not bring it into this bill, it is a matter of controversy in itself, which the government should certainly appreciate. The second question is what the representatives of the government said when we had such a constructive debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs that the government has other methods of countering the pressure on the price of electricity. What are these methods? Let's take a closer look. The first method is, once again, to compensate for the share of the price higher than the price horizon of the energy carrier for the so-called lower incomes of part of the CO2 emission allowances, which is set at EUR 38 million in total, but which takes place only over a number of months. This period, as defined, was six months. I think there's a perspective to put on such a short time horizon. In fact, in the next financial year it will only be three months. Secondly, it is certainly bureaucratic and excludes a very large number of people, given the low level of income per household member or family member, where a person qualifies for these two conditions: firstly, a very low income for a family member and, secondly, higher price horizons for an energy carrier. The second measure is again a compensation of 50% of the network fee over a period of six months. It shall take place within three months of the following financial year. If, for example, we are trying to determine how much has been taken into account for the network charges for domestic customers in the three months, we will take such a rule of thumb: 1/3 goes to households in terms of total electricity consumption, 2/3 to others. In the case of households, this government measure is 80+ million in total. We share this: three months in this financial year, three months in the next financial year, which represents more than 40 million of this compensation money in a consolidated manner for three months, and only one third of it reaches home users. Maybe it's 5 million euros a month. The government has provided EUR 5 million per month to domestic consumers to compensate for the multiple level of electricity prices in such a situation. It's, I say, bad. I'm sure you can say here, like teacher Lauri, that if you don't get two things, you do one thing. I am not saying that these are ideally wrong measures. They are certainly aimed at addressing this problem. But obviously, when we talk about consumption volumes, expenditure volumes, they are simply, above all, for poorer people with very unduly narrow contours. Secondly, it is undoubtedly bureaucratic. And partial compensation for the electricity grid fee will only take place within three months, friends, within three months. There is no doubt that a number of measures need to be implemented in the complex. Our current draft decision provides, I repeat, that 100 million euros will be charged to all consumers to reduce their electricity bills during the next financial year. A clear and concrete message without bureaucracy, uniform and easily manageable. The second measure, which is not included in this text, but I think it is important to address it, is what we have also tabled as an amendment to the state budget for 2022 and which once again provided that, when we talk about the surplus of CO2 emissions quota revenues, this money should, above all, cover the renewable energy fee. That would be both fair and economically rational. The second proposal we made concerned the reduction of VAT on electricity and gas from 20% to 9%. Our experts' estimates show that in the next financial year, the excess from household customers to businesses will be deducted from VAT, and EUR 150 million more will come from domestic consumers. The state will charge more than EUR 150 million in tax revenue. This specific VAT proposal would have left EUR 225 million in the hands of consumers. This amount, EUR 100 million here, will already give consumers a victory of more than EUR 300 million. This means a hard brake on inflation. It's at the State's disposal. That's the inflation we're all paying, the whole society is paying out of their pockets. We pay everything, whether we go to the cafeteria to eat or we consume any services or products. According to the Ministry of Finance's estimates, inflation is now rising by half the price of energy carriers. There is no doubt about it; it has a huge impact. So, honourable Members, the call made by the Isamaa Group is unambiguous. We will all line up like one man and a woman and give this task to the government to alleviate the burden on consumers from the price of electricity by eliminating the renewable energy charge, we will take it off the books of all consumers. The second point is that Mr Mölder was in the Chamber, but he went away, that Mr Mölder, Mr Aas, the representatives of the government, has promised that they will raise the [proposal] speculative CO2 quota trading system, which has actually led in part to this pressure to increase the price of electricity, so as to prevent steep price increases for consumers and a deterioration in the competitiveness of businesses. We know that this system is also used for purely speculative reasons, as such securities, or as a contribution to this price increase. Specifically, the government should put forward these proposals. What are these suggestions? In the meantime, it was said, as I mentioned, that these two members of the government said that they would go to Europe and perform. But what are you doing? What are the suggestions, what are these positions and what are the results? It is also the task of the government to develop these positions, to come to Parliament with them and to obtain Parliament's mandate. We have addressed this issue because it is very important for the economy and for people to manage, in a very holistic way. We have a multi-storey solution here to reduce the scope of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U86	Mr. Reinsalu! Members of the Riigikogu have at least one question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In fact, the issue itself is serious. I've just been looking at the CO2 price chart. This price has reached over 70 euros. Indeed, as they say, it is already traded on the stock market and on 24 November the price was 72,91 tonnes. Now, what do you say it goes on like this, where does it raise the price? After all, Jürgen Ligi, half behind my back, thinks that local governments have money like mud, that they do not need to be supported at all. You didn't bring out the municipalities in your speech. Municipalities are also very large consumers of electricity. This would certainly also help municipalities. How would it still be wiser to do so? If our good proposal is not supported now, how should municipalities be helped?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U88	We must support our proposal! Jürgen Ligi lives in a parallel universe, that's the truth we need to open up here. Jürgen Ligi's idea of how to alleviate inflation is to increase pensions and pay subsidies and raise wages. This is, of course, not a reduction in inflation. An economic lecturer would immediately say, Jürgen Ligi, give me a stunt, there's gonna be a crooked number. Of course, these groups need to be given money, grants and pensions, but it certainly does not reduce inflation, but it, on the contrary, puts pressure on inflation. The measure to reduce inflation, when we are talking about the toolbox that we currently have at our disposal in the European Central Bank system, is precisely the reduction of prices through tax reduction, with these particular inflationary pressures. It is wrong to say what is said or attempted here from the apologetics of the party that does nothing, as if it were some sort of price fixing or price control. No, it is not. It is a uniform reduction of the tax burden. This ideological doctrine has been expressed by both the Minister of Finance and Jürgen Ligi that we must not do so, because then the rich will win. You see, the rich guy suddenly has an electric radiator, he's got a lamp burning in the ceiling, and the rich guy gets the benefit of this tax reduction, the loss of the renewable energy fee, he buys himself a gold clocer ring for that money. Pursui! I'm saying this is a completely incomprehensible way of thinking to me. My logic is to have less poverty. I'm not sorry if there's more wealth. There is no question if there is a uniform tax reduction to then say that the price shock is of an exceptional nature. It's so much happening, it's like the tsunami is actually coming, it's going to solve as a pressure. It has a real influence. The weather hasn't gotten so cold yet. 100,000 people, when we talk about energy sources in general, heat gas, but many people also heat electricity. It hits people very big. Speaking here of the fact that people's electricity bill here is also what the European Commission told us, isn't it, Kadri Simson, two euros, I do not know if people only have a flashlight at home, that it is two euros, or what it can be there. It's completely misleading people. Of course, people are looking at their own costs, especially those who heat electricity, and they realize that this is a complete bullshit story, it's an unrealistic story and it doesn't correspond in any way to reality. Price pressure is very high, this price pressure may persist for a long time. This price pressure also has the tragic consequence of making all people poorer, all those who work on wages with deposits. The price of money is falling. The solution is to offer us what? The solution is that the state will take away hundreds of millions of euros from consumers with an additional tax burden resulting from the increase in energy prices and will replace the debt. Perhaps, as I said, in three months, next year within three months, [will] go to home customers EUR 5 million per month. It is not fit for purpose and it is not justified, this so minimalist philosophy of doing nothing. It is time for us to deal with the real problems. In European countries, they are dealt with, solutions are offered, they are not planted, they are not done with their hands. I would also like to say an important argument, a European argument. The European Commission has also developed an indicative toolbox, which specifically provides for recommendations on the use of CO2 emission quota revenues and the reprofiling of energy VAT accordingly, to reprofile other charges linked to energy carriers that have undergone a particular price increase as a result of this price shock. This is the toolbox of countries we have. This is, of course, also a problem in local governments. No one has planned this. The reality is, the government lives in the summer. It wasn't the government's correction on what happened in the autumn, this surge in energy prices, it didn't. On the basis of the summer economic forecast, the government is also based on inflation. As such, it must be seen that we are two steps behind the reality. This Parliament has been a Parliament of the crisis. We have faced very different types of crises: the health crisis, the economic crisis, the security crisis, and now the energy crisis. There is a clear lesson in this crisis: the response to the crisis must not be missed. It seems to me now that, unfortunately, the government has been able to propose such measures at the level of a point of discussion. It is a good thing that this, too, happened under pressure from the opposition, but it is simply not enough. The actual effect is neither to reduce inflation pressure nor to reduce the burden on consumers, nor to include the steps proposed by the government itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U89	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U90	Thank you. I'm sure everyone's jealous that I'm already the central figure of the second debate and the classic they refer to. This isn't the first time. But I'm sorry, of course, that I'm being given positions and that I don't understand mine. Talker-level arguments, so I guess your use of words were very exciting. But try now [to say], when you started talking about inflation, I have never talked to you about it, contrary to your argument of how the budget deficit affects inflation. There is no budget coverage shown here for this activity. How will inflation be affected if environmental impacts are not taken into account and environmentally burdensome benefits are granted to consumers? Two questions about inflation, therefore: how do these two things affect inflation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U91	The budget deficit, i.e. actually spending, which is not in line with the real volume of the economy, is, of course, negative. It encourages inflation, there is no doubt about it. But, Mr. Ligi, don't be modest. We talked to you on Tuesday, we had a debate on a show where the host pointed to the inflation problem, and you answered that, oh, but this is where pensions are raised and so on. This was clearly your point of how to solve inflation. I am telling you that increasing money supply will not reduce inflation. It is as simple as that in life, leaving aside all ideological and political considerations in the case of one or the other individual decision. Now this question, which concerns the environmental impact and the indication that if consumers do not behave in an environmentally sound manner, will not contribute to the development of green energy with a renewable energy charge on electricity bills, but will be paid off by taxpayers' money from the state budget, its impact on inflation. With this ideology, I say that, I cannot agree in any way, with this idea that the aim is that it is nice when the cost of energy is high, because then people consume less and if they consume less, then there is less spending and then there is lower inflation. In order for the objective to be in itself in the current situation, in the context of this price shock, to say that the renewable energy charge is on and that, consequently, people consume less. If there are such goals in the current situation, where people are facing very serious problems of coping before the cold winter, I am not talking about businesses, energy-intensive businesses, but about all, society as a whole, I think that if, in this light, get behind nature conservation, it is not a relevant approach, as I have read from the pathos on this issue. The question is that our proposal does not include saying, in the case of a renewable energy charge, that we will pull the wire and the state will withdraw from the commitments it has under the law in force. No, we are saying that it is provided for as a public budget allocation for the compensation of investment in or in green energy, according to this investment cycle, from the remuneration of renewable energy. This is done, the state must continue to fulfil this obligation until any other decision that could be constitutional has been taken. We certainly don't intend to retreat from that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U92	No further questions. Thank you! By the Economic Commission, Jüri Jaanson. But before Jüri comes to the remote: if anyone should have any questions for Jüri, I very much ask that these questions be asked at a very calm pace and clearly, so that our assistants can also print these questions nicely to Jüri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U93	Thanks! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. My task is to shed light on the Commission's work on draft 429 Proposals to the Government of the Republic to reduce the price increase in electricity. The Commission addressed this draft at two meetings. At the first session on 25 October, a representative of the commission was simply appointed, who I became. No one argued against that. A substantive debate took place on 15 November. All the members of the Commission were present there. Invited were Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the initiators of the draft, Rein Vaks, Director of Energy Markets, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Kati-Liis Kensap, Head of the Climate Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Mari Lahtmets, Adviser to the European Union Political Service, Ministry of Finance. Since the debate in the Commission was much more substantive than in this Chamber, I will shed some light on it. Urmas Reinsalu, the representative of the initiators of the draft, described this draft. In essence, this proposal would provide for the abolition of renewable energy charges and for the compensation of income deficits from the better collection of carbon quotas. Rein Vaks of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in his reply or in the view of the State, set out a graph of which components the price of electricity consists. There these price components were listed. It explained that, as one compensatory measure, this price would be covered by half of the network fee. With regard to renewable energy, he pointed out that the annual renewable energy charge in terms of budget amounts to around EUR 100 million and could be used much more efficiently in other projects than in compensating households for the renewable energy charge. The Commission also examined the average household electricity bill and, should this decision be taken, how much they could save. The answer from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was that savings depended on consumption. In apartment buildings with savings of between four and six euros per megawatt-hour, five euros, there could be one or two euros in total saving for renewable energy charges. At the same time, however, this is not the most painful place for the household consumer, as the rise in warm prices is much more problematic. It was further pointed out by the originators that some EUR 80 million were foreseen to compensate the network fee for the following financial year. If this amount is divided into two, between its intended use and its general use, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U94	George, I'm sorry! Gentlemen Ligi and Reinsalu, with all due respect to Jüri, please, come on! Why don't you go down there and grab a little coffee in the cafeteria and talk it over? [[A voice from the hall.]] I understand, but it's not possible for this trial... I can't hear George from here either. You're messing with each other. Really. George, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U95	I'm very glad I have at least one listener. In short, I will begin by saying that, as the network fee is to be offset by some EUR 80 million next year, half of it is dedicated and is to be distributed between households and industrial users, domestic consumers could be compensated by EUR 10 to 15 million. A small personal observation is that when Urmas Reinsalu, the initiator of the bill, spoke about 5 million today in this panel, he spoke about 10 to 15 million in the Commission. The originator asked to clarify whether it was right that this measure had more than twice the financial impact of renewable energy charges on all consumers. Rein Vaks, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, said that this compensatory measure was not periodic or, if talking of 100 million a year, that the compensation measure for the network fee was six months, the following three months. If this measure were to be extended for a year, the amounts would be quite different. But now it's three months from next year. Urmas Reinsalu also stated that the winning of the home consumer would be EUR 15 million for the network fee and EUR 35 million for the renewable energy model would be worth more than twice as much in a year perspective. Rein Vaks, representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, considered that after spring the situation on the electricity market might not be so difficult, so we can no longer calculate all these things for a year. Technically, the representative of the Ministry of the Environment, Kati-Liis Kensap, commented on how the carbon quota could be used for the benefit of domestic consumers. He said how it could be done. Paragraph 161 (4) (4) (4) of the Atmospheric Air Protection Act: "... supporting low- and middle-income households to address social problems arising from energy consumption. "It is possible to use this 50% carbon quota for this purpose. The representative of the Ministry of Finance pointed out that the other half of this total was not earmarked and it is, in fact, general government revenue, money that cannot be taken into account outside the overall planning of the state budget. It is already planned in the state budget, so it is not possible to use it as an additional source of cover here. This was a brief overview of the substantive debate in the Commission. At the end, a procedural decision was taken to propose a final vote on the draft today. This decision was adopted by consensus by the members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U96	You have questions... Still, still. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U97	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good George! Was there also a debate in the Commission that, when we allocate money, we say, to support the poorer population, how much bureaucracy there will be compared to uniform support, precisely in terms of managing subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U98	Thank you. That is quite an interesting angle on this subject, indeed, which was not addressed in the Commission. I owe you an answer to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U99	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Jürgen Ligi would like a word. This is the time when only the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell Urmas Reinsalu that he's not really here, he's playing. What he answered to my question showed that in general it was all one bizarre and not all is lost yet, he is able to observe the reasonings, and the false quotations he attributed to me were not meant to be serious. What really drove me here was the pathos that we're giving the government the task of lowering prices. This is very similar to giving the government, for example, the task of producing pantyhose or something. This is the most tragic thing that is in the Fatherland, that now all the understanding of the functioning of society is central to the state and government, the government must intervene in social processes with its own hands and not accept things that it cannot influence. Energy prices are a market signal first, I recall. I am sorry that the Committee on Economic Affairs did not discuss this at all. This is a price crisis in some sense, but taking advantage of every crisis must not mean taking to yourself how to grab money from the budget, which was also Urmas' logic in our last debate, and that was also his groupmate's question. I mean, the question is that we are going to cancel this bureaucracy, that then we will get something, we would also like to get prices from the budget. However, the real economic logic is that prices must be allowed to function and mitigate the consequences where there is a real problem. There was never a mention of what the magnitude of the problem is. I'll mention it. Last year, the electricity part was in the consumption basket last year, 3% in the middle. The place of intervention here must undoubtedly be not that we go back there to push it back in the case of price increases, but that we must help those who are actually in trouble and use this crisis not to grab money for themselves as a price quote, but to create public opinion, and also a consensus among political parties, that it is now necessary to deal with the issue in the long term, the grassroots are also very much in the fight against inadequate energy supply and high prices, alternatives to Russian gas and coal. So the price signal is an economic aspect that I would also like to hear from the Committee on Economic Affairs. The taxes among them, in turn, are the worst way to react at all, let's say we treat this renewable energy charge as a tax, because that is precisely what [where] we get here more times than those poor people who consume less. It's bullshit, and that's what I'm pointing at. In addition to this, bureaucracy, that is to say, to help the real people in need of it, does not cost anything [expensive] energy. Because grabbing money like that for tens of millions of those top decibels who really don't notice it at their expense, who can save all the time, is immoral. That's what I'm talking about. Let us look at this text itself: abolish the renewable energy charge. What is the renewable energy charge? It is still the source from which these renewable energy investments should come. This went over in itself in 2007, and our group did not support it. Somehow a bottom-up thing was brought here, offered over. But he's already a retreating phenomenon. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U101	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U102	He has his own logic. In the green turn, this part must also be used as an additional resource to invest in renewable energy, but not to increase the budget deficit. Of course, it was the Urmas party that screwed up this budget. You started talking about inflation, twisting my words. Inflation thus works because the country has deepened inflation with its long-term budget deficit. If we put a new burden on him, it will not reduce inflation if this is not the case for one commodity, but at the same time the costs of the state will increase, inflation will increase in the opposite direction. So this is not a question of inflation at all, but the issue of inflation is that the price signal will help to increase supply in the future and actually help to save. Saving also means insulation of houses and such things, just savings. This, in turn, is depressing, if we talk about inflation here at all. Inflation is not a key factor here. However, the key factor is that the price of energy alone is only one price and we have to look at the entire consumption basket. Inflation is still lower, also according to forecasts, than people's incomes. So to panic about the need for some universal price regulation, the Fatherland shouldn't. It's embarrassing. All the more so since, in the current situation, actual solutions exist largely in the form of revenue from the state budget. To make a turn, make a turn in energy production and consumption, and make a green turn, it is also necessary to safeguard fiscal sustainability. You can't see it right now. This CO2 emissions revenue should actually go in the same way to make a change in energy, not to distribute to people. In this case, it was technically practical to place it on these relatively poor people, but it has already been done. Maybe I wouldn't have tied it that way, but I would have already foreseen it in the budget for the poor. CO2 money, all the so-called surpluses that are actually taking place in the context of a major budget deficit, should go precisely to real solutions: investment and investment grants for the benefit of citizens. In support of homeowners, including, by the way, in the form of investment support, that people themselves will play a part and receive something that will help them against the price shock. But the main course must still be to help those who are in trouble, not themselves, because it is easier, we take more ourselves and give the poor a little bit of money, and then we're foaming here about how bureaucracy is expensive in other ways. It's not like that. Well, there you go. Fatherland, I call you back to basic values, that's all. This talk is, of course, longer than eight minutes, but let's keep fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U103	Okay. Now I have a question for the Isamaa Group. Which one of you wants to talk? We have the choice of speaking from the table, I see, Urmas Reinsalu, it is not procedural. [[A voice from the hall.]] Do you want a line? I'll just be more specific about what you want me to do, then I know how to do it. I understand that Mr Hepner would like a speech on behalf of the Group and Mr Reinsalu would like to have an address. But then let's get this accepted. You checked in earlier, too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U104	I call this 19th-century Baltic German baron style to end and come to 21st-century Estonia to the real concerns of people. What did we hear from the previous speaker? Firstly, that the real increase in electricity prices does not exist, that for rich people it is not such a problem that something should be done, and thirdly, it is good that people consume less, it is good that people consume less. Let's summarize what the previous speaker's view was. The increase in the price of electricity is not as great as it is intended to be in front of [eyes]. Secondly, it is good that people consume less, it is green. Thirdly, all real measures that are uniform in order to mitigate price increases are not reasonable because they are uniform and therefore rich people win. All of these claims, of course, live entirely in parallel reality. The Fatherland Group has never proposed to impose any national price on electricity. The proposal of the Fatherland is unambiguous and clear: reducing taxes, reducing burdens, because these burdens, in addition to the money that people have to pay to meet these burdens, as the price of electricity has increased, will further amplify the negative consequences of the energy crisis. To say that we cannot do anything is, of course, completely misguided and wrong. The previous speaker would only be able to look at other European countries where there is an active debate and both tax and non-tax measures are adopted. Of course, the indication that this energy crisis has arisen because of the market or because of the so-called distortion of the energy market is only partly true. Certainly, the central CO2 trading system of the European Union in this logic has also exacerbated this price crisis. So it is time to come back to the Republic of Estonia in the 21st century, to put aside rhetoric that is completely wrong and that is the pilotage of demagogy's mastery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U105	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, we have indeed reached the third crisis, if that is how we could express ourselves, the energy crisis, and that is the reality. That's the reality today. And there can be no agreement with Jürgen Ligi, who spoke in favour of the Reform Party, who claimed that there is no reason to worry, just consume less and the problem can be solved. I think we have no reason to send a person who receives an average salary to a parish house or city hall to ask for support so that he can survive until the end of the month, get his children trained and stay at a temperature of at least 18 to 20 degrees, so that he does not have to wear a coat or give up warm water. It is actually quite funny to see that if the state earns more than 100 million, 120 million euros in CO2 quota money, perhaps more, freshly looked up, the price of the CO2 quota has already risen to almost 73 euros per tonne, then it is said that if we support our people, it is as if we grab ourselves, homeowners grab some mysterious wealth. It still feels really weird from the country. The subsidies that try to alleviate [the situation] are several times lower, with EUR 15 million being reported here of 5 million per month over three months, of 15 million versus 120 million. Then who's grabbing? Who grabs it, does the country grab behind its citizens, or does the citizens grab from behind the country? That's actually the question. But it's not just about homeowners. Of course, the country is still for people, not the other way around, but we cannot forget about entrepreneurship. This one-size-fits-all advantage would also support our business. People have to get paid somewhere, and when entrepreneurs get hard, they can't pay that kind of remuneration. You gotta stick together somewhere. It is true that some savings are made on investments, some savings may also be made on profits, but at one point the limit is reached. So this, too, will eventually land in our people's pockets, or it will be taken from our people's pockets. The third party, which I would like to emphasise in particular, is the municipalities. Municipalities pay very large amounts of money for electricity, and this is a serious problem. Several municipalities, I've heard, have already planned to reduce street lighting. We have the darkest time coming, or it has arrived, and the beginning of the new year is also very, very dark. At the end of March, the need for street lighting may begin to decrease again, but even then it cannot be turned off. So this is an important question. Our kindergartens, schools and other educational and cultural institutions, which are municipalities to hold, are also really a matter of how to cope. The state here about its cultural institutions says that we will find solutions, we will somehow support them. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U107	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U108	But when it comes to local governments, they say you're going to get 120 million mysterious increases in income tax, so do it. That goes for every expense. For every expense! You'll get 120 million more next year. But it is forgotten that the state will receive 17% and the municipalities will have an increase of 9%. There is almost twofold difference in revenue growth. They don't say that about that. However, municipalities must manage regardless of what the state actually gives. So this is the duality that is reflected against today and which would be solved by such a uniform tax reduction, really, we call it such a burden or a tax. This is, in my opinion, the only solution in itself today in the fight against the energy crisis. Now a few more words about a green turn. If we are based on what the good previous speaker here said about the Reform Party, then we will simply achieve that our people will turn their backs on the green turn once and for all because they cannot tolerate it. In this regard, the European Union has also said that we must not overdo, that there is a social benefit measure, and that is how we can mitigate it with the CO2 money we receive, how we can support it. If we turn this thing over, we're going to break this green turn and it's gonna be really hard to fix it. In fact, we have already perceived this in the social process, today too, we could say, in the case of the government's actions in the form of a health crisis. I hope that there will be no such problems in the security crisis, but in the example of the health crisis, we have sensed that society has broken down more than it could have. Do we want the same for a green turn? Of course, we need to save, we need to make a contribution to reducing our energy consumption so that new technologies come. But we can't at the same time forget about our people and tell them to sit down for five years in the cold and see for yourself how you're doing. Friends, there's no war now! We still have to make sure that our people continue to live normal lives. In this sense, I do not see any alternative to finding genuinely viable solutions for reducing energy prices. Yes, what this draft does not concern is the issue of value added tax, which could be implemented. There are, in fact, still a number of [themes], including the price of gas, which should be dealt with in the energy crisis, which is once again not affected by the [draft], but that is crucial. If we do not want the energy crisis to turn the people of our country and society as a whole into a fight, then it must be actively dealt with, not just looked aside and dragged over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U109	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U110	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland proposal is sympathetic and the subject is understandable to everyone, regardless of political preferences. Something has gone terribly wrong in Estonia, and I am only talking about Estonia's conditions, but also elsewhere. On the one hand, the grass is excellent, and I say this as a person with a green background. But again, if the new well isn't ready yet, it's not the most sensible thing to spit in the old one. We have done so, the wind farms have not risen, the Gulf of Livonia is not full of large wind farms. Fortunately, we were able to maintain power at the oil shale plants, where current power is coming from. However, since the price of the quota of carbon dioxide has gone beyond the limits that have been boldly promised from the European Union, Brussels, then, of course, if electricity comes from oil shale and because the quota fee has grown exponentially, the accounts have grown so high and it is not known when they will fall. But this is a general background that should be clear to everyone. The proposals of the Fatherland are very sympathetic. One suggestion that the whole system should be developed or revised in connection with the so-called blow-up of quota trade. I know this is already being dealt with, whether or not the Fatherland proposal is being taken into account. This is what is already being dealt with in Brussels and elsewhere. So it's, you could say, already in motion. Another thing, a particular thing, the renewable energy fee just proposed by the Fatherland to remove it. If you look at these numbers, it actually accounts for 6 to 7%. I quote that, for example, an electricity-fired private building, 1500 kilowatt-hours per month, the renewable energy fee was 10% in 2020 and 5% in September 2021, a district-fired two- to three-room apartment with 300 kilowatt-hours, the renewable energy fee was 11% in 2020, now, in September, it is now 6% high. So compared to the price of electricity itself, with all these extra charges, it is relatively marginal. The network service is somewhere in a fifth, 20.21% now. The excise duty is relatively marginal, less than 1%. VAT is indeed an important player, 16%. So first of all, the price of electricity itself is the highest, for example, in this electricity-fired private building with 1500 kilowatts, the price of electricity is now 57% of the final price. Next is the network service, 21%, and VAT, 16%, then the renewable energy fee, 5%, then the excise duty, 0.5%. So let's just say that this is not the biggest piece of savings and saving people and businesses or making their lives easier. But it's better than nothing. We've already talked about excises, we're not gonna say it again. But on this point, it's a nice approach. In any case, I know that the Government of the Republic will think about it and will never be any different. But I, and we like this proposal, should be more active in designing electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U111	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 429. Okay. Viktor Vassilyev, do you have a procedural problem? Has there been an accidental request to speak? The call rounds are over. I guess that wasn't really the wish. So, ladies and gentlemen, before I put the proposal of the commission to the vote, I would point out that I will not make another call. However, we have also received a proposal from the Centre Party Group and the Committee on Culture to extend today's session until 2 a.m. or until the agenda is exhausted. After we have made this decision, we will vote immediately on the extension of the sitting, so do not get off the lines. Therefore, we are now voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposals to the Government of the Republic to reduce the price increase in electricity" submitted by the Isamaa Group 429. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U112	For 26, against 2. However, since this decision also required a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, this decision has not been adopted. Okay. As I promised, we will also proceed immediately with the vote to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U113	With 57 votes in favour, 0 against and 0 abstentions, we will work to the end of the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U114	The fourth item, which is also our last item today, is the first reading of the draft law amending the language law initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heiki Hepner, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Raivo Tamme, Üllar Saaremäe, Mikhail Lotman and Sven Sester. Please, Üllar Saaremäe, on behalf of the initiators!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U115	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! I'm in front of you with the draft law amending the language law, it's under number 463. The purpose of the draft law is to improve compliance with the language law and to motivate the heads of institutions and entrepreneurs to contribute positively to the learning of the Estonian language of employees. This draft allows the Language Board to monitor the implementation of the Language Act more effectively. § 32 of the Language Act contains a uniform ceiling of EUR 640 for both natural and legal persons, and this is clearly in the way of time. In order to enable the Language Board to carry out better and more effectively the activities assigned to it and at the same time to motivate legal persons to require their employees to know the Estonian language, we would like to raise the ceiling for the corresponding coercive money from EUR 640 to EUR 6400 for legal persons. The draft is very short and narrow. § 1 of the draft law amends § 32 of the Language Act and provides that in the event of non-compliance with an injunction, the maximum amount of compulsory payment to legal persons under the procedure laid down in the Act on Replacement and Penalty shall be EUR 6400. Natural persons will remain subject to the current maximum penalty payment of EUR 640. The draft does not relate to European Union law, the implementation of the draft does not entail any additional costs and the law would enter into force in general terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U116	Colleagues also have questions. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U117	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, The draft is indeed very concrete and short. But I ask whether the initiators of the draft had other measures and amendments to the law in order to better comply with the language law, in addition to raising the coercive money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U118	There was no question. We have gathered specifically to make this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U119	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear waitress, You quoted an explanatory statement which says that the 10-fold increase in this coercive money is to motivate entrepreneurs in a positive way so that their employees can speak Estonian. Can you explain to me in popular science how fear of coercive money motivates employers to learn Estonian by their employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U121	Excellent question, dear colleague. Sunni money is not a fine, it is not a punishment. The penalty money doesn't go into the criminal record. Forced money is leverage. After all, it is elementary that we do not submit it to you, yes, you will still have the money if you comply with the language law. Forced money is not required to be applied immediately, before precepts have to be made, to point out that such problems exist. Of course, you don't have to go straight to full speed and all that. You've heard all this at our meeting. But it is very positive that people who have come here to live, who want to work here, learn and understand that it is important to know the Estonian language. This is not an imposed obligation, but an opportunity to work and act peacefully here in our republic. That's right, positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U122	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U123	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good live penguin! I myself attended that meeting of the Committee on Culture. Did I get it right that the reason why this bill was not being supported was because it didn't make sense how 6400s turned into 6400s? So the answer is 10. But there was no clear calculation. Is it understood later in the costaires that it would be enough, let's say that 640 times 10, which is equal to 6400, or is there some higher mathematics required? At the moment, just reform, soccer and central do not support because it is incomprehensible to them how 6400 becomes. Did somebody figure out it was a 10-fold slope?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U124	Thank you for your question. I have the courage to confirm with full responsibility that all the delegates present at the meeting of the Committee on Culture understood very well how 6400 out of 6400 have come. That question did not arise. There was a missing study that was not included in our explanatory memorandum. A representative of the Ministry of Education and Research thought that they could actually start doing this research. I guess when this study is done, these results are going to be multiplied by 640 and this is going to be the correct sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U125	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U126	Thank you. Yes, indeed, it is true that all members of the Commission understood how 6400 will become. My argument is that if we were to write 64,000 there, it wouldn't have a positive effect. Where does your conviction come from that fear or danger of imposing a coercive money will cause employers to invest and contribute to the language training of their employees, motivate their employees to learn the language in turn, rather than cause this fear of obtaining a penalty payment of EUR 6400 or any amount of that employee to be released as soon as possible and assign to him who is an Estonian from the profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U127	A good, precise, sharp question, to which unfortunately there is no answer at all. Of course, business leaders and their attitudes to both the language law and their employees vary. I do not deny that the scenario you have put forward is, as a rule, applicable. I'm more than sure about that. Which, however, tends me to believe that the enforcement money, let's say, the modernisation could have positive effects, is what Ilmar Tomusk, Director-General of the Language Board, said, which he also stressed several times at the meeting, that the 6400 would probably already be the lever that could have a result. This, of course, does not contradict your claim. I have to admit, you're quite right, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U128	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I might, however, extend Ilmar Tomusk's idea without asking him directly. But we know that there is a school manager in Tallinn for whom we are about to celebrate the 25th anniversary. Every year, he gets a little stunt in the form of a coercion, but nothing's changed. So in this sense, perhaps it is not the only mechanism that forces the employer to learn or that forces the employer to do something about it. Was this example being discussed in the Commission, or could this current growth help to resolve [a situation] in which 25 years have simply been put to numbness?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U130	Thank you. That statement was at issue repeatedly. On this basis, it was also said that the current rates are really so low that it is more reasonable to pay the penalty as if it were a fine, whether that or not repeated, than to start doing things. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U131	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U132	[[Remote connection]] Thank you! Study for research, I didn't understand whether they were going to investigate against offenders what a fine would be acceptable to them, so to speak. Is it also the first time in the Committee on Culture that it is addressed? You have dealt with all the things that would work in one educational case or another. Let's say that the basic school and upper secondary school law simply recorded EUR 10,000 in forced money without an explanation, and it was actually competent. My question is this: was there any more important idea as to why today's situation should be maintained? Why can't we just get on with this? That's the exact same bill we've had for the third time. The Ministry hasn't done anything in three years, but now they're preparing the study.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U133	Thank you, good questioner! Without wanting to go to the countries of the next rapporteur, I will say so much that, when the vote was held in committee, all the voters considered it necessary to stress that the subject is important, that it must be dealt with further, but that, for one reason or another, they cannot support this draft, unlike me and the EKRE ambassadors who supported it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U134	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Here's the question. You have decided to increase the maximum amount of coercive money for natural and legal persons, both if these rules are not complied with. When you drafted this draft, did you also have a topic for discussion that would better influence whether motivating you to behave well or punishing you to be well behaved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U136	Thank you very much. I need to make a few adjustments. In the case of natural persons, the [ceiling] remains the same. The penalty for natural persons remains 640. This concerns only legal persons. We didn't talk to the drafters very long on the subject of motivation, but they were up in the Commission, which you will soon have an overview of. Now I forgot the other half of your question. Or did I answer all the points of your question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U137	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In fact, in this Chamber, we have been discussing repeatedly and repeatedly when the penalty rates, I mean the financial penalty here, true, the penalty money directly has not increased not only 10 times, but even 100 times, nearly 100 times. I know at least one bill that is being prepared, with an increase of about 100 times. Then it has also come from the coalition's point of view that it is very right. I certainly share the fact that it is necessary to find positive leverage, not just to try with punishment. Was this also the case in the Commission, or were the reference moments discussed with other drafts that we have discussed and where [rates] have increased? No one raises the penalties 1 to 2 times, but, if they are already raised, still 10 or up to 100 times. Was that what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U139	Thank you, good questioner! When I listened to your question, I remembered what I wanted to answer to the honourable Urve: it is not a punishment, it is not a penalty. These are the things we made clear here from the very beginning. Honourable Heiki! The right to answer this question shall be transferred to the Commission's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U140	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U141	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I'm confused now. You say that the purpose of this draft is for employers to contribute more to the language learning of their employees. However, in answering the question of a good colleague, Eduard, you admitted that this bill could lead to the mass dismissal of workers who speak the Estonian language poorly. What is the purpose of this bill? You can't have both.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U142	Thank you very much for your question. Of course, you can't do both. In this case, you interpreted my answer in a teacher's way. It must be clear and precise. I replied to Eduard that I would not deny that there were such managers or management methods that people without language would rather be allowed to go than be dealt with. I'm really sorry about that. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U143	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U144	Thank you. My question to the initiators of the bill is this. A great deal of concern in the Commission was, in fact, not only about how such a sum was reached, but also about the framework you are pursuing. Did you, let's say, for you the language learning issues were such a starting point at the beginning, you thought that maybe you could start moving from mapping the situation, that what is happening today is not only with language skills, but also with language learning, which could solve all of this? The second question is specific. Breaches of language requirements for public information and advertising were also discussed in the Commission and it turned out that the Language Board was not implementing much of the coercive money there. Is it the same concern for you that, for example, in the case of trademarks, the Estonian language does not necessarily need to be [in a letter]? Did you have any mention of this, and was it a concern for you when you initiated the draft, which you consider important to resolve?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U145	Thank you very much. I will answer the second question first. Of course, it is a problem and, of course, it is an issue that needs to be addressed, yes. Speaking more widely, it is no secret that the Fatherland has always stood up for the Estonian language and culture since the beginning of time. So, on the whole, all the issues that you put out your question are on our table. However, in the case of this draft, we really focused only on this particular point, that is to say, to increase the cap on coercive money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U146	Peter Rahnel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U147	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! I, like many previous speakers who asked here, have no idea why it has been done that there has been no incentive, no motivation money, and only punishment. It reminds me that over a hundred years ago, the East Neighbor was motivated by the fact that if no one wanted to take part in something or resisted, the whole community had to kick his ass for it. In the 21st century, however, in the Republic of Estonia, I do not think it is fundamental to punish only, not to motivate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U148	Thank you very much, good questioner. I repeat to you, for the next time, this is not a punishment. This is not a punishment, it is a sanction. Why don't we touch the "motivate" point? I'll go to § 32, where we'll only change one number. There is no "motivate" in this section. We'd only change one number and it'd be 10 times.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U149	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U150	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Good bill presenter! In the Commission, we briefly argued about whether the situation of mastering the Estonian language has got better or worse. We both put forward our arguments and remained in such a good tie. ... to examine this situation more closely and either... better or worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U151	I have to admit, teleworking has its charms and its dangers. Someone incomprehensible took away all those words that would have made your question clear to me. But I can agree with you that we're tied and that's what Jack White proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U152	No further questions. Thank you! Now there's a report from the Committee on Culture by Margit Sutrop. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U153	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the hall and behind the screens! I am pleased to present to you in the Committee on Culture the 463 debate on the draft law amending the language law on 18 November. At this meeting of the committee, the proposal made by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heiki Hepner, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Raivo Tamm, Üllar Saaremäe, Mikhail Lotman and Sven Sester, who initiated the draft law amending the language law 463. [There was] preparation for the first reading. The meeting was chaired by Jaak Valge, Vice-President of the Committee on Culture. Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Natalia Malleus Aadu Black alternate members, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin were present. Tarmo Kruusimäe, Member of the Riigikogu, and Andero Adamson, Head of the Language Policy Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, Raina Loom of HTM, Head of the Legal Policy Department, and Ilmar Tomusk, Director of the Language Board. First of all, Üllar introduced the draft by the initiators of Saaremäe and spoke about its purpose, which he emphasised here too: to improve compliance with the language law, to motivate entrepreneurs and the heads of institutions to contribute positively to the teaching of the Estonian language of employees. He spoke of a plan to raise [the maximum amount] to 10 times for legal persons and, in the case of natural persons, to maintain the rate of EUR 640. Tarmo Kruusimäe added that the initiators have come up with a similar bill in the Riigikogu earlier. By verifying that there have been two cases: in June 2018 and January 2019. Either way, it hasn't worked. The payment of the penalty gives indulgence for a year, said Tarmo Kruusimäe, and added that several laws show that fines have fallen into the way of time. The Government of the Republic had assessed this; it had sent a letter to the Cultural Commission of the Riigikogu by 1 November. This was explained by Andero Adamson as Head of the Language Policy Department of the Ministry of Education and Research. He said that, in principle, this was a necessary topic, he said that the Language Board's so-called new reception from the Language Inspectorate was turned into the Language Administration 2018 and that, as a function of language policy, the Ministry of Education and Research considered it important to do more to map and support language learning needs, rather to nudge and to influence like positive influence and less to fine. The problem was the lack of further analysis of the implementation of the same level of coercive money, but it was very important that larger legal persons who ignore the language requirement could actually be fined. What is very important in their analysis or evaluation of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, is that there are 10 herald15 legal persons who systematically violate these requirements. Indeed, for them, a more proper measure would be needed that would make them comply with the language law. But the solution could be to look first at what level of compulsion would be effective and, as a result of the analysis, to find a way to improve this system. Ilmar Tomusk, the head of the Language Board, or his own reflection or reports from the field, was certainly of great value, you could say how this thing works. I thought it was very important that he started by making a difference between money and fines. One thing is a fine that doesn't motivate anyone to correct themselves because you've been punished. But, as Üllar Saaremäe said here, forced money is by definition a non-punitive measure whose task is to motivate voluntary compliance through precepts, but if it is not done voluntarily, it will be enforced. It may be that a company or a person is prescribed to do so and, for example, during the year, the Estonian language must be acquired at B2 level. The precept is more effective for workers who may have lower pay, hairdressers or others who want to keep their job. They are prescribed by the employer, followed-up is one year from now, and then they will look at how to implement it. The bigger problem, however, is what Tomusk pointed out that we do not really know what really works. I think that is what became the central point of the Commission's debate. Tomusk stressed that there was no criminal law analysis. The problem is that coercive money has been implemented since 2002. It's in 100 laws. The minimum rate was EEK 10000 in 2002 and has become EUR 640. The highest rate is in the SGS: EUR 10000. But it is not quite clear what is the rate that would be right. His recommendation was therefore that the Ministry of Education and Research, together with the Ministry of Justice, carry out a criminal law analysis, not just on how to get to this number, but on what is the main issue of motivational coercion, which is what will still lead to a positive outcome. This should be precisely the kind that would affect both legal persons and employees to engage in language learning. The whole discussion that followed was interesting in the sense that he was very broad-based for me. I think it can be said that all the Members of the Commission praised the initiators of the draft law for taking this initiative. In fact, no one had any doubt that this problem had to be addressed. They said thank you. But a lot of people stressed that this topic was more complex. First of all, Mr Odines pointed out that there was no description of the situation on which we were based. Signe Kivi said that there is no link with the Estonian language development plan, that the draft has chosen too narrow a framework. Helle-Moonika Helme said that it only deals with one paragraph, while at the same time this topic itself is very complex. Perhaps to a greater extent he stressed that we could talk about a language crisis. At the same time, Marko Šorin felt that the situation had improved much with language learning and that there was no reason to talk about the crisis, but rather we could look at where these pains are, but also talk about positive examples, especially the willingness of Russian-speaking people to speak in Estonian. At the same time, when Tarmo Kruusimäe replied, he gave examples of catering companies in the centre of Tallinn, where people who work there do not know any European languages. So it turned out that the situation we are looking at has not really been mapped out. I would like to highlight three issues that are missing. There is a lack of charting of the situation as to how we deal with language skills. That should be the background. How we deal with language learning is another problem, which should also be the background. The Ministry of Education and Research itself said that they, for example, are currently engaged in mapping the need for learning Estonian in educational institutions. The third problem, what is missing, is how the enforcement money is now being implemented, how much it is working and how much it does not work. It's also missing. This is the third description of the situation that is missing. The fourth is what would be the criminal basis for what kind of penalty money would affect in the first place. Four major issues that were further addressed by the members of the Commission. I will not bring the rest of the debate to you in such detail. But it can be said that perhaps this very issue of language learning was the one most highlighted the need to see how it would be motivating. Ilmar Tomusk's examples were also seriously taken. For example, this year there have been a number of cases in Ida-Virumaa where the ex-post warning of police officers contained EUR 320 and in many cases had to be implemented because the police officers had not learned the Estonian language for a long time. Ilmar Tomusk used the same example in the case of school leaders that there is a school manager in Tallinn who has repeatedly received EUR 640 of forced money, which has not influenced him or motivated him to comply with the precept. I would also like to point out that Tomusk said that, in addition to influencing the head of the school, the influence of the Tallinn City Government has gone beyond influencing the legal person. The city administration has been allocated 640 euros of forced money three times in a row, but it has not affected the government either. Similarly, he expressed the view that the problem was primarily with large companies, that the local authorities could be affected by increased coercion. He felt that this would be a positive measure, but in the case of large companies, such as supermarket chains, it is not at all certain whether even raising it to 10 times would have an impact. At present, this EUR 640 has no impact, is paid off and is not even noticed. In comparison, it was perhaps interesting that Tomusk said that there was no concept of forced money in Latvia. The highest fines for violations of the language law are EUR 5000. In other countries, as far as he knows, there is no such practice at all. What could really affect is that we are systematically doing not only a criminal analysis that could be an effective measure, for whom and how much, because there is a difference in income and turnover between companies, but we would also look systematically at how to improve language skills, how language learning can work in such a way that it is good. In Tomusk's view, raising the penalty money could have an impact on local authorities and educational institutions. But there was still a major problem with language learning. Tarmo Kruusimäe, for example, pointed out that alongside the service in Estonian, there is also a problem with the language requirements of taxi drivers. I myself asked Ilmar Tomusk how it was possible to motivate lower-paid workers to learn Estonian. He pointed out that there was a huge problem with the Estonian language skills of platform and agency workers, which was an additional problem that should be addressed. This is how we got to the mapping of these major issues. Ilmar Tomusk also pointed out that forced money, or any solution that we could develop, should help motivate companies to look after their employees more broadly, not just for language skills, but for legal employers to see it as a wider package. He pointed out that there are companies that take care of the language skills of their employees, but as soon as people get their language skills, they go elsewhere and these entrepreneurs must start working again with their low-paid workers who do not speak Estonian. This shows that the lives of entrepreneurs are not easy. As a result of all this, we have come to the point that Heidy Purga, for example, proposed better contenting of the draft, carrying out a round of engagement and re-initiating the draft, because the subject is important. Signe Kivi also stressed that the subject matter was important, but the draft framework was currently narrow. As Head of the Language Policy Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, Andero Adamson suggested that the arguments are important, cannot be argued against, the Ministry has also mapped out major areas of pain, which are better provision of Estonian language learning and review of legal space, and that it is also important to carry out an impact analysis and a circle of involvement. They'll allow the subject to continue. Ilmar Tomusk was pleased that politicians are concerned about the subject and want to deal with it more widely. The Language Board uses the tools provided by the law and tries to use them effectively, but the problem is really wider. It is important to discuss how to proceed with the amendment of the language law in such a way as to better protect the language rights of the Estonian language, and above all the language rights of the person in Estonian, in such a way as to protect the rights of users of all other languages in Estonia. Jaak White proposed. Then there was a vote. He was put to the vote, as leader of the White Commission in this role, and put to the vote a draft. Marko Šorin proposed to reject the draft at first reading. Üllar Saaremäe proposed that the first reading of the draft be stopped. A vote was taken, with 7 members in favour of the draft and 3 against. Mr Marko Šorin was appointed rapporteur at the beginning of the discussion, and Mr Šorin agreed to this proposal at the end of the discussion. The bill was sent to the big room on the plenary agenda by 25 November here we are today, with a consensus on it. That's what I'm done with right now. It is a pleasure to hear your questions and to hear whether the other Members of the Commission want to complement something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U154	Üllar Saaremäe specifies, asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U155	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, thank you very, very well for passing on the one-and-a-half-hour sitting we had. Amazing! My question. If you can't answer that, it's gonna light up your ears. But as a person who has done a lot of philosophy, looking at life, do you see that the imposition of the penalty money can also have positive consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U156	I'd say it's okay. Let's just say that setting certain limits of all kinds is perhaps necessary in some sense for certain people or certain legal entities. I think it's relatively individual. Just as we can say, I have dealt a lot with value education, from children and perhaps up to adult people's influence on values, to the fact that people are still very different. I think we should have a whole package of things that are a whip and a cookie at the same time. If a cookie doesn't help anyone, I don't think we should accept that he's breaking all the rules, and in that case a whip has to apply. Perhaps what is important is that we have a whole package, a whole palette of different measures, and we are able to implement them correctly and appropriately, because it will deliver better results. Just as we can see in children's value education that if we go very hard on just sanctioning, cornering or tutism or doing things like that, it can take away a person's will to follow some kind of rules. In other words, if there are people who absolutely do not want to live up to good so-called cohabitation rules, that is to say, respect for the agreed language requirements [following], respect for the state language and respect for the rules of cohabitation here, in which case the state must stand up for itself, stand up for all citizens and for compliance with the section of the Constitution, according to which the use of the Estonian language is indeed protected in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U157	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U159	I'm opening negotiations. First of all, on behalf of the EKRE Group, Jaak White, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U160	Ladies and gentlemen, This is a short draft that actually seeks to regulate a very small part of a very large and important issue. But this step has been taken in the right direction. This step has been taken in the right direction, and I am now justifying it in a broader context. The most reliable information about our language skills is, of course, from the census. According to the last census, 68% of residents speak Estonian at home and 82% of residents speak the official language. The definition of language skills is very mild. Of course, we are not very satisfied with this situation. As I have already said from this speech chair, there is only one country in Europe where national language skills are even lower. This is Moldova, Moldova. But it has to be said that the root or main cause of this bad situation has not been the policy of our country. Our country's policy could have eased it, I come to that. But that's not the main reason. The fact is also that our Russian countrymen are largely influenced by the Russian media, and this is, of course, not only a matter of language, but also of security. The situation isn't as bad as it is in Moldova. I think that the comparisons with Moldova are appropriate because it may spur us more on to change the situation. It's not as bad as it is in Moldova. In Moldova, RTR Moldova is the second most popular television station in the country, with the population as a whole. Among our Russian-speaking population is the most popular television channel Peror Baltiski Canal. We have not been able to change this situation. Another aspect of the description of the situation I came to is the process that can be described as "globalization. " " It's a process that we can't stop even if we want to. However, we have the power to direct and reduce the impact of this process on Estonian culture and Estonian comprehension. Now we ask whether we have responded adequately to these situations, in the spirit of our constitution. The answer is no. We have postponed the deadlines for converting Russian school into Estonian in a row. I have pointed out from this very remote area that in the last year and the year before, 4 000 to 5 000 persons from the Eastern Slavic States and Asian and African countries remained in Estonia more than they left here. Of these new immigrants, 4% speak Estonian in the middle. Therefore, if we want to change the language situation, the immigration policy should first be changed, which drafts have been submitted by the EKRE. Instead, let me remind you, the ministers are planning to increase immigration. Okay. I say we haven't responded adequately. No one would have prohibited us from turning Estonian schools into Estonian; no one is asking us to promote mass immigration. We have not properly restrained the negative effects of globalisation, which is, above all, English-speaking in the language field. It takes place in the municipal sphere, cultural sphere, urban space, working environment, universities, weather networks, as well as branches and offices of multinational companies. English-speaking gives Russian countrymen a very bad signal that we do not appreciate our own native language, and why should they do so? At the same time, however, I believe that there are relatively few who would honestly say that we do not want to promote the Estonian nation state and culture. I think there's a few of them. But what we're missing is will. We have a very common Gadic outlook on which Anton Hansen-Tammsaare wrote: "Charactership is not an idea or a cultural issue, but it is only about living comfort, easier to get along. Kadaklus does not begin or end by someone forgetting their blood, tongue, and nationality... Kadaklu can also [almost] be the subject of so much hanging from foreign borrowed thoughts, tastes, comprehension, strivings, fashions, customs, and life - styles. This is also a matter of easier and more comfortable living. In this way it is not necessary to be independent, but in every area we can use only foreign patterns..." Piret Kriivan writes that there are many reasons, excuses why we sometimes become juniper: false shame, misconceptions, comfort, ignorance, distrust, arrogance, laziness and indifference. Today's junipers are often very well disguised. But I am telling you that you will recognize them when the need for internationalisation is being spoken in a slogan, multiculturalism is being praised, and either the campaign from Brussels or the global campaign is being praised without any criticism when trying to get cheap labour for multinational companies belonging to foreign owners, or the decision-making of our country to transfer the decision-making power from Estonia to other parts of Estonia. I would also include those who do not trust their citizens with the right to vote. This bill would make a minimal change in our language situation. In fact, systemic measures would, of course, be needed, but the prerequisite would be to overcome the guild. Some colleagues in the Committee on Culture explained their opposition to the draft that the issue needs to be dealt with in greater depth. But I dare tell you a little secret: the issue can also be dealt with further in this draft. These requirements for mapping and impact analysis can be just an excuse. Actually, it's a small but notable bill. I call on you to vote in favour of maintaining this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U161	Mikhail Lotman, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U162	I have a procedural remark again about this tabloid. I saw that Eduard Odines was before Martin Repinski, but... [[A voice from the hall.]] It wasn't? I have a procedural excuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U163	A procedural apology has been accepted. It can really happen that a person is registering and then taking off and re-registering, which means that the order will also change. The machine records according to the fingertips. Please, it is your turn on behalf of the Fatherland Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Riigikogu! We have heard that it is very complex and complex and so on the question. So I'm going to start off complex. I have two complex preliminary remarks. The first is that as a right person, but also a liberal person, I rely on minimum laws, but they must be complied with as much as possible. If the law has been passed simply to be a joke and nobody cares that it is being violated, then I think either it should be changed to make it work, or it should be abandoned altogether. The second preliminary remark is autobiographical. At the end of the Soviet rule, during Perestroika, I was honored to work at the Institute of Cybernetics. My job was to analyse the movement of speeches in the furniture industry. This topic, the speech acts themselves, is the philosophy of the field of philosophy, was philosophy, linguistics and cybernetics on the border. Well, there you go. One problem was that if an order or a decision comes from above, but the subordinate does not want to and does not intend to comply with it, he cannot say no. He says the problem is wider, the problem is complex, it's a very serious matter, but you can't rush it, you can't go overboard. Or, you know, we'll do an analysis first. For example, we need to move tables from one warehouse to another: before we do an analysis, an impact analysis of how it affects workers and so on, we will form a Commission and so on, because it is so serious. Well, there you go. Analyzing these cases, I enriched the theory of speech, and therefore philosophy with the new term "illocutic sabotage." It's an illusionary sabotage. Can't say no, but I'm actually going to make sure I don't, but I seem to. What did we hear today? Because it is complex, there is a need to approach systematically, there is no analysis, there is no analysis, there is no analysis, there is no analysis, there is a third analysis, there is a fourth analysis, it needs to be looked at in a broader context, in the context of language skills and language learning. But after that, it turned out that it was not enough, that other things had to be looked at, and the review of the legal space required that the ceiling of one of the penalty payments be raised. Well, let's imagine we need to impose a traffic penalty, for example, on those who drive under a red light. And we say come is, it's complex, we have to see what the clutches-brakes on cars are, what the path is, and first we have to send drivers to some kind of supplemental teaching. And neither is it enough, we need to approach it in a complex way, which we are now simply imposing a fine. No come on! I think everything we heard today is typical of this kind of illocutic sabotage. 10000 Estonian kroons in 2021 is a joke. No legal person will move a finger in front of this threat. So the 6400 is enough? We'll see about that. In any event, the incentive to avoid this is higher than in the case of EUR 640. If that's not enough, then it's not the Scriptures we're going to accept here, you can make adjustments here, in a year or two, we'll raise to 10,000. But right now, I think that the 6400, although it's an arbitrary number, will in any case serve a much better purpose than the number that is currently not fulfilling the objective at all. Thank you. So I'm asking for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U165	On behalf of the central fraction, Martin Repinski, please! Martin, please turn on the mike. Martin, we can't hear you. Can you turn on the microphone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U166	[[Remote connection]] Can you hear me now? The mike's in now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U167	Yeah, I can hear you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U168	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Very interesting bill. I'm listening to you, and I'm actually wondering. I'm surprised I don't understand what kind of world some of us live in. It was particularly funny to hear the author speak of positive influence, positive motivation, as if some form of coercion or fine or other such means of punishment could be a positive leverage. Well, I can't agree with that in any way. This is certainly not a positive leverage, first of all. Secondly, we need to look at the wider picture, I think we need to look at what kind of system we have had, which lasts for decades, and what results it has produced. After all, you talk about the fact that, in fact, this result is far from ideal. This situation, which we have at the moment, is what you claim to be, I mean the creators of the bill, must be corrected. At the same time, when we look at how it is organised, how people are motivated to learn Estonian and how companies are affected, we see that the main leverage is fines, penalties and similar things. Has it produced a positive result? Has this led to a goal? Well, you're telling me you're not. I agree that this is not a good leverage; it does not work well. In this situation, it is funny to see how we do not think about what is the problem, but simply influence even more, make even more fines or coercive money or other leverages. We don't think about why it doesn't really work. But I think that's the wrong approach. It doesn't work well today. In order for people to want to learn Estonian in order to be motivated, they really need to have a positive influence. There are also different options that can be implemented, but somehow we are not looking in this direction. I'll come back to that. If there is a problem, if there really is a problem, why do we not allow it to be more regulated on the market in this situation, as elsewhere? What do I mean by that? I mean, if, for example, there is a company that deals with servicing that works with people, and if an employee cannot communicate with customers in a language that is convenient for them, why do you think that an entrepreneur or manager will take care of such a person? Why would he pay him if the customers didn't want to use the service? I think the problem here is sometimes exaggerated. I'm asking for an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U169	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U170	[[Remote connection]] The thing is, we're only looking at how to fine. It's not really working. There are a lot of these...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U171	Martin, please, come closer to the computer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U172	[[Remote connection]] ... does not want to learn Estonian knowingly and at times, even in principle, precisely because it is only fined, it is required. I think it has to be a voluntary wish. The country has different ways of influencing people positively, not [only] fines and sanctions. Finally, I am certainly not in favour of this approach. I think that Estonian is important when living and working in Estonia. Very many people understand this, and those who are motivated can learn it very easily. However, practice has shown that fines, coercive money and other such penalties, these things do not motivate people and businesses also do not motivate them. If we put $640,000 or $6.5 million, it doesn't matter. This ultimately does not change the outcome. But if we were to come up with something interesting and really workable, I think one such good motivation and a good thing would be if we took and gave at once to people with grey passports, Estonian citizenship. This would be a step that, I am sure, would make people think more about the fact that Estonian is really important. People would be more loyal. I am sure that, as a result, we would have many more people who have a good knowledge of the Estonian language, who really want to learn it. The quality of learning, as we all understand, is much better if people are really motivated, not because they are being demanded or because there may be some kind of fine for it. But thank you very much. I personally vote in favour of rejecting this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U173	On behalf of the Socialists, Eduard Odines, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U174	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Repentant feelings are. Just as it is understandable what the initiators of this draft are concerned about. On the other hand, I do not understand why this solution should be the one that works to solve this problem and this problem. Well, it doesn't work. It's been talked about many times. After all, the question is what makes a person improve his or her language skills, which makes a person develop his or her language skills. I say, like many previous speakers, that fear of anything, of coercive money, of fine, no matter what we call this measure, does not lead to the improvement of language skills and the development of language skills. A lot has been said today about motivation. It's not a very big motivation. Fear of an inspector of the Language Board, fear of losing his job, fear of leaving his children without food money, fear of becoming poor, without a working person who is not employed, because the same fear is given to the inspector of the Language Board, to the money and to the fine; fear does not make people learn the language, to develop [language] skills and to learn [language] better. I have repeatedly talked about the fact that my education is Estonian as a foreign language [teaching]. I know all about it. Motivation can be very different. Motivation can be instrumental, motivation can be integral. This is where we're dealing with instrumental motivation. We hope that man will feel a great urge to acquire something, to fix something, to know something, because he is afraid of something. He needs this instrument to stay on the job, he needs this instrument to get up on the career ladder. He needs this instrument because someone says, someone threatens, forces. And there is an integral motivation, if the person wants to, if the person likes Estonian, if he likes Estonian people, if he likes the Estonian state, if he likes Estonian literature and music. He'd like to be a part of it, and that's why he's going to learn the language. For love, not for fear. It seems to me that this bill is what we do to cultivate fear, not to cultivate love. I hope you know what was called our language inspection in Russian a few years ago. It was called the Language Inquisition. It does not increase the love of the Estonian language; it does not increase the motivation of people to acquire the Estonian language. We're talking language, language. Here were examples of crossing the road with red light or speeding when we fine people and make them behave as the state intended. Language learning is not the understanding that you do not drive a red light or that the limit speed is 90. It's a very subjective, very individual, very deep process that takes place in the human brain, and force it to add fear to it, can't. It just doesn't work like that. A different approach is needed here, a different motivation is needed, not threats to the Inquisition. People actually want to speak Estonian, people want to speak Estonian. This desire, this will grow year after year. This is demonstrated by all studies carried out in Estonia, including integration monitoring. This also shows that the ability of Estonian language among people who do not have the first language will improve from year to year. The state has invested enormously in it, showing its investment to people that the state cares, the state offers opportunities, the state creates the conditions for a person to speak the language. In this situation, this motivation is, of course, much higher, much clearer, and people want to learn the language. What does it take to make a penalty for the injunction that the Language Board does? It requires passing the exam, it requires papering. But I believe that anyone who has ever thought about it will understand that the existence of a paper and the passing of an examination do not really mean language skills, does not mean the ability to use that language in real work or domestic situations. It's not like that. We know hundreds of examples from Ida-Virumaa and elsewhere, also from Tallinn, that a person will pass the exam and after a while it will all be gone, because the only motivation for language learning was to pass the exam. This is, in fact, a very big problem in many Russian-language schools that Russian-language schools do not teach the language, but prepare for the exam to have the right paper. That's why we get out of school with kids who don't speak Estonian in real life, don't know how to use it. That's the problem we have to deal with. We need to deal with language learning and positive motivation, not to increase the amount of coercive money, not least in the case of the employer, who has the easiest way to solve the problem is to get rid of this cumbersome worker. The fear of getting rid of him does not make this worker better learn Estonian under any circumstances. We need to create motivation packages, we need to support the employer to give people free time to learn languages, for example. I would remind you that for several years we have had a so-called draft or idea of the Citizenship Treaty, but it only extends to those who intend to apply for citizenship and who are not Estonian citizens. They receive state support, the employer receives state support. We deal with projects like this, we deal with ideas like this. As long as we don't think in a positive direction ourselves, but think in the direction of punishment, I'm willing to be the illocular saboteur, as we were called here today. I'm not ashamed of that. But I am ashamed of the Estonian state, which punishes people and demotivates people when they learn the language. The Social Democrats are against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U175	Mr. Lotman, is it a rejoinder?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U176	Obviously, my speech was referred to, even twice. What I'm trying to say is that there's been a mix-up here. This law amending the language law does not talk about language skills; it talks about compliance with the law. Once again, if we look at the parallel with traffic penalties, we will be fined not for the lack of leadership skills, but for the violation of the law. So here too: the law must be observed. This is a simple measure so that we do not just have a joke about the laws, but they actually work. Maybe I'll finish this: no, Eduard, you're not an illusionary saboteur, you're just a saboteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U177	Okay. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 463 at first reading. We need to vote this through. All right. We have reached a vote. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission of lading 463 to be rejected at first reading. I ask you to take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-25_U178	The proposal is supported by 40, against 20. The proposal has been supported, i.e. the draft has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, We've done quite a bit of precision and precision. It's 1:56. Thank you for this day, and I'll see you next week. The sitting is adjourned.
