ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! I wish you every success, happiness and strength in the first sitting in 2021. Take care! We will begin the Monday session of the first working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! On 30 December 2020, Eduard Odines, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, joined the Riigikogu following the resignation of the member of the Riigikogu. Next, we will hear his oath. Here's the chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U4	Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U5	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the State Assets Act. Anneli Ott, Minister of State Administration, will represent the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when dealing with the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act and related amendments to other laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Fisheries Market Organisation Act and the Penal Register Act. Arvo Aller, the Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Customs Act. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions and related amendments to other laws. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Audit Act and the Accounting Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when these three draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. All the drafts have been forwarded to the Riigikogu through the electronic information system of the drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U6	Thank you. It seems that there is no further request for referrals and drafts. I have adopted six drafts. Thank you! The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, let's do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U7	There are 90 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 11. Honourable Riigikogu! Let's go to the order of business. The Riigikogu Board did not reach a consensus on the order of the agenda items for this working week on Wednesday and Thursday. Two members of the Bureau considered that the drafts should be ranked as they are currently on the agendas on your tables: on Wednesday, the first item is the second reading of the draft 288 and the second item is the discussion of the development plan, and on Thursday, the first item is the first reading of the draft 281 and the second item is the first reading of the draft 289. The third member of the Bureau considered that the drafts should be in reverse order on both days. As no consensus was reached on this issue, Siim Kallas, member of the Management Board, wishes to put this Riigikogu to the vote on the basis of § 16 (4) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. I shall put to the vote... Indrek Island has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U8	Yeah. I would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that already on 7 January, the Social Democratic Party Group proposed to remove the first item scheduled for Wednesday according to the draft agenda for our working week, which is draft 288 of the Riigikogu's resolution on the concept of marriage submitted by the Estonian Central Party Group, the Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. We are repeating this proposal here too. It continues to be divisive and discriminatory in the draft law. And the current timing, as the Riigikogu should deal primarily with the health crisis, is certainly completely inappropriate. In addition, the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the weekend has revealed that it is also an illegal draft decision, which is contrary to the law. It is therefore our proposal to remove this item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U9	Thank you. We'll get to the Social Democratic Party's proposal. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U10	Thank you. Did the request of the Committee on Culture to remove "Estonian Development Plan for Research and Development, Innovation and Entrepreneurship 2021" from this week's agenda reach the board of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U11	Yes, he did. But, if I may, I would like to make it clear that we are now dealing with a proposal tabled by Mr Kallas, on which the Bureau did not reach a consensus, and that after that both the proposal of the Socialist Party and the proposal of the Committee on Culture will come to them, and we will only end up approving the agenda for the first working week. Does Siim Pohlak and Keit Pentus-Rosimannus have a question about the same proposal made by Siim Kallas? Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U12	Thank you. My question is about the agenda and also about the Wednesday day. The Bureau has brought before us a proposal to put draft referendum 288 on the Wednesday agenda. My question is that there were a number of violations of the rights of a member of the Riigikogu during the proceedings of this bill in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: members of the opposition were excluded from the microphones, the amendments were arbitrarily incorporated. There have also been very many protests on this, but there has been no response to these protests so far. My question is how it is possible to include something on the agenda that the protests on have so far been unsolved. Does the fact that the Bureau comes before us with this proposal mean that the Bureau considers that there have been no violations and that you have all approved them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U13	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'd like to go to these issues with the approval of the agenda when we get there. But right now I have a proposal to address Mr Kallas's proposal, a proposal to change the agenda, which we have the opportunity to vote on. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U14	Thank you. I think my penguin was asking clearly enough. You might want to get a little deeper. We have on the agenda a draft on which the proposers, despite several days, did not get the floor to justify their proposals. How can such a draft technically be in the Chamber if, first, the proposers cannot justify their proposals and, second, their protests that they do not agree to discuss their proposals with others in a single set? How is such a thing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U15	Thank you. I would like to put it to my honourable colleagues that we should still be dealing with a specific issue, which is the proposal by Mr Kallas, member of the Bureau, to make changes to the order of precedence on this week's agenda. And I would still put this proposal to the vote first. This is Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U16	I'd like to clarify once more. Mr Kallas's proposal, which we are going to vote on, is it not going to be the agenda that is on this table if we support it? I get it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U17	In that case, a different order of the agenda shall be drawn up. But I will read to you what the agenda will be after the vote. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of Siim Kallas, member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, that the first item on the Wednesday session be the discussion of the development plan and the second item would be the second reading of the draft 288 and the first item on the Thursday session would be the first reading of the draft 289 and the second item would be the first reading of the draft 281. As you can see, it's different from what you have on your desk. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U18	It's buzzing too. Maybe it's possible to turn that sound a little bit on the speakers. In short, we are now going to vote on Siim Kallas' proposal, yes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U19	We will vote on Mr Kallas's proposal, precisely. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U20	Thank you. Let me ask you very briefly. I understand that the proposal of the Committee on Culture, which is coming before us, is such that the debate on Wednesday's research and development should at all be deleted. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U21	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U22	Just for the sake of practicality, I'm asking. If the proposal of the Committee on Culture is supported, one part of Mr Kallas's proposal does not really matter anymore because he wants to redeploy things that then no longer need to be moved. Perhaps it would be wise to do things in the right order?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U23	Yeah, that's right. But we cannot put these changes on the agenda until the Bureau has put them on the agenda. However, the Bureau did not find any consensus and the proposal by Vice-President Siim Kallas will therefore be put to the vote in the large Chamber. After that, we will move on to this proposal from the Committee on Culture. [[It's ringing the bell.]] I would like to put to the vote the proposal of Siim Kallas, member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, that the first item on the agenda of the Wednesday session be the discussion of the development plan and the second item is the second reading of the draft 288 and the first item on the Thursday session would be the first reading of Bill 289 and the second item would be the first reading of Bill 281. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U24	There are 51 members of the Riigikogu, 43 against and 1 abstention. The proposal has been accepted. Let's change these points on the agenda. Tõnis Mölder, please, is there a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U25	Thank you. However, I would ask for this vote to be repeated, because... [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Thank you. I have a microphone. I have to admit to age-related issues. I heard it here, but Kaido Haevalson, for example, didn't hear what you said up ahead. Perhaps you could take the mask off and express more specifically what you are putting to the vote. Clearly, people thought twice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U26	Yes, but unfortunately, the vote has already taken place. The vote has taken place, the hammer has struck, and the order of the items on the agenda has been changed. However, as we will soon reach the proposal of the Committee on Culture, the first item on Wednesday will fall out of the agenda currently voted on. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U27	Good chairman of the sitting! When you pull that thing in front of you, it's called a microphone, you're going to hear a lot more clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U28	Thank you. Here's what I'm gonna do. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U29	I wanted to ask, Henn, how do you know in advance that this second item will soon fall out of our hands. It has not yet been voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U30	Because the Committee on Culture has proposed this and has withdrawn its draft. But let's move on to clarifying and confirming the agenda. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed that the second reading of the draft 288 of the Riigikogu's resolution on the concept of marriage be removed from the agenda of this week's Wednesday session. If no political group is against this, we can vote on it. If a political group does not support this proposal, there will be no vote. Siim Kallas, please! I'm sorry! Siim Pohlak.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U31	Do you hear me? The ECRE Group does not want to vote on this proposal; we do not agree with this vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U32	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U33	Thank you, good manager. I did not fully understand whether you would answer the previous procedural questions before we went to the vote on Mr Kallas's proposal, or whether I had to repeat my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U34	We can discuss this and respond again when we come to the adoption of the agenda. But at the moment we have a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group and, since one of the groups of the Riigikogu did not agree to vote on this proposal, this proposal has been rejected. Next, the Committee on Culture has proposed to exclude the discussion on the 'Estonian R &amp; D, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Plan 2021 Are there any questions now, ladies and gentlemen? Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U35	Thank you, Mr President. 288 OE has been included on the agenda on Wednesday in accordance with the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, although I believe that this decision is wrong, but it is indeed here in itself, and it has been correctly put here by the Bureau. During yesterday's day, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken illegal decisions, which concerns the drawing up of a list of amendments. § 73 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states that it is impossible to discuss the item on the agenda unless documents relating to this draft have been made available. In the opinion of the President of the Riigikogu, do these documents also have to be legal, or is it just enough to put them up as a PDF file somewhere? Do they also have to comply with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U36	Thank you. The Bureau shall not monitor the content of these proposals for decisions. The board will make sure they reach the big hall. And as far as the availability of materials is concerned, of course they must be available, and today at five o'clock this deadline is. One last question, I hope, before we can go to the adoption of the agenda. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U37	Thank you, good manager. I will then repeat this question that has been put before. This concerns the Wednesday agenda and now the only item on Wednesday on the agenda, the organisation of a referendum, the number 288 of the draft decision. Since, in the course of the proceedings on this draft decision, a number of violations occurred in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the rights of members of the opposition's Riigikogu were violated by shutting down their microphones and not giving them the floor, not allowing them to explain their proposals and illegally merging proposals which the law does not provide for the possibility of merging, there are very many protests about the progress of this procedure. None of these protests have so far received an answer; they have simply not been answered. My question is, if the protests are unsolved, how can we put such a draft on the agenda? If the board has come before the Riigikogu with such a proposal, does this mean that the board has taken the view that there have been no violations, or have you approved these violations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U38	Thank you. I know the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed these protests yesterday. I wasn't there, I haven't been able to read the protocols yet, because they're still working on it. As regards the protests that have reached the Bureau, these will be discussed in tomorrow's session. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U39	Thank you. You just said you knew the Commission was discussing these protests yesterday. The Commission was far from discussing all protests yesterday. It was particularly remarkable that protests by opposition politicians were discussed yesterday, but the protest of Imre Sooääre was left entirely unanswered. I find it rather strange, in this situation, to put on the agenda something that we do not really know whether it should belong to, because perhaps, for example, if the protest at Imre Sooääre is satisfied, the whole procedure will start again in committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U40	Thank you. What is happening in the Commission and at what stage these protests have come to debate, I cannot say. Therefore, the Bureau has no basis and no reason to change the agenda for the week. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U41	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I just have a question for you as a member of the Board of the Riigikogu. Why are you discussing these protests concerning the violation of one of the draft procedures that we want to put on the agenda with some people now until tomorrow? Why didn't you discuss them before today's sitting, for example? Do you not, then, wish to have legal clarity and to ensure that the Riigikogu does not deal with illegal matters and violations of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U42	The regular Bureau meeting is on Tuesday, and I am absolutely convinced that if we can all discuss it together, it will be much more effective than by e-mail, as usual Thursday Bureau meetings will take place. As you know very well, these protests have continued to come every day. It would therefore be premature to discuss them in advance. We will take all the protests into account and discuss them at tomorrow's meeting. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U43	Thank you! Part of the protests concerned the holding by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of a meeting at a time and in such a way as to prevent some of the members of the committee from attending the meeting. You made a public comment in this context, saying that it was intended to lock up the mouths of the members of the Riigikogu. Can you explain your thoughts?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U44	I'm sorry! I have never said any such thing that the purpose of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to shut the mouths of the members of the Riigikogu. That's not true. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U45	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I just didn't understand your answer why you didn't have the will. The management of the Riigikogu is able to meet in an extraordinary way. These protests concern the violation of the law, they concern the establishment of a precedent in the work of the Estonian Parliament. It would actually be reasonable to deal with them, to give them an answer, no matter what the reply of the Riigikogu's board is then in the end, and to do so before the Riigikogu sitting, before we put this draft on the agenda. I don't know what your logic is. If you discuss protests tomorrow and find these protests justified, what do you think should happen to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U46	Thank you. The Riigikogu Board will discuss these protests tomorrow. Today it is too early to say what the result of this debate is. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U47	Thank you! In my opinion, the context in which you used these words, that it was otherwise impossible for a member of the Riigikogu to shut his mouth, had to do with whether or not the Constitutional Committee meeting could be held online and whether the Chairman could turn off the microphones, whether or not allowed. So you were quoted by the Estonian Public Broadcasting. Is this a mistake, or did you talk about the possibility and support the possibility of restricting the right of the members of the Riigikogu in procedural ways?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U48	I have always stood for the right of all, including members of the Riigikogu. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I would like to remind you and put it to my heart that we do not say quite any things here in a specific way of speaking. It will eventually go to the detriment of Parliament's authority and reputation if something is said here and spoken in a specific way about the violation of the law and the like. I propose that we please go to the adoption of the agenda and get to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U50	Thank you. That's a very good suggestion. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U51	Good manager! I have this question: should the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discuss Mr Randper's proposal for the restoration of the Soviet Union or the question of Pevkur, a former Minister of Justice, as to whether the rat should be an Estonian national animal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U52	Thank you. What the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discusses and decides is the right of the Commission. The Board of the Riigikogu does not dictate, control or direct the work of any committee. You all belong to committees, you are sovereign members of the elected Riigikogu with a mandate. We are not your employers; you decide on all the questions and problems in the committees. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question for your answer. You said that tomorrow the board would meet to discuss what the protests were and what was happening, and you do not know what the result will be. No doubt I don't know what the outcome will be. But if it comes to the fact that you are detecting a violation of the law and the rule of law, will you then remove it from the Wednesday agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U54	The Governing Board shall not carry out any legal analysis. The board proceeds from these protests, looks at them, and then tomorrow we will discuss them. Now, with the amendment of the Committee on Culture, i.e. the proposal to remove the 'Estonian Development Plan for Research, Development, Innovation and Entrepreneurship' from the agenda of the Wednesday session 2021 to 2035', I will vote on the approval of the agenda for the first working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U55	There are 50 members of the Riigikogu, against 45. The agenda has been adopted. And we have another vote to make, third vote. In fact, the Estonian Reform Party Group presented a proposal to move between 11 and 14. January plenary sessions in the form of a remote sitting. The Bureau discussed this proposal, but no consensus was reached. One member of the Bureau was in favour of the proposal and two were against. As the Bureau did not reach consensus on this issue, Siim Kallas, Member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, wishes to put this proposal to the vote on the basis of § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. A few clarifications before we vote on this proposal. The Group of the Estonian Reform Party wishes to apply the format of the sittings for distance participation 11. 1 January, perhaps today. Since today's session has already begun, we cannot transform it into a remote sitting on the agenda. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, today's session will continue until the agenda is exhausted. Therefore, we can vote for a remote sitting starting tomorrow, i.e. between 12 and 14. 1 January. Mart Networker, is there a question about this item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U56	Yeah, that's right. You have brought it out so that we can vote for a long-distance hearing from tomorrow. I think it would also save a lot if we were to hold long-distance hearings from tomorrow to at least the end of the week. We know that Harjumaa and Ida-Viru County have been severely restricted to gathering people together. The infection rate rises every day. If we look back to December before Christmas, when we last met here in the Riigikogu, then the 14-day infection rate was 506 per 100000 people. Today, this number in Estonia is a record 610 through time. So, most likely, there could be someone in close contact with us, someone carrying the virus. Perhaps it is unwise to come here together when we have all the means to conduct remote hearings. My proposal, however, is to support this proposal by the Reform Party and to hold a remote hearing from tomorrow. In fact, we would like you to open up a little bit more of this Bureau debate as to why you opposed it, except for this one day to change it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U57	Thank you. There was no consensus on this issue on the board, as we are known to have no people presently infected in the Riigikogu. If someone is in close contact or feels bad, of course, all these people should remain self-insulated. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U58	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Did the Board of the Riigikogu also discuss that, since the Riigikogu has created all the possibilities for a hybrid session, it would also be possible to make sure that those who are healthy and want to come are present, but those who have problems can vote or participate in the session via the TV bridge? Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U59	That's what a remote hearing would mean. Those who wish to come to this hall, no matter what. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Does the management of the Riigikogu have any quota, how many members of the Riigikogu must be in close contact or missing in order to allow a remote session?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U61	No, we certainly do not have any quota, but the Riigikogu is not a public event, a concert or simply a public assembly. We're working here. And if you remember, with the approval of all of us, the procedure for conducting joint remote sessions, it has been said that this is happening for very compelling reasons, for example, this is an example, when members of a group are forced to remain self-insulated. But in principle, it is the discretion of the board each time, according to the circumstances. So we're monitoring the situation and we're making a decision on it. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U62	Thank you! I also ask whether the political groups must have, let's say, some examples of how many people have left self-insulation. Because otherwise, Helmen's story seemed to be awfully comfortable if you could, for example, be quietly in a spa and then participate like that if you didn't want to come. You can't actually stay in a comfort zone like this. We've still been implementing this remote hearing in case the ambassadors can't physically show up. Is there a criterion for how many people must be self-insulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U63	Thank you. We will monitor this situation very closely, and on this basis we will decide, as well as the overall situation. But indeed, all the requests that are submitted to the Governing Board must state a compelling reason. It is not enough for just a group to go to a remote sitting or to say that there could be objective reasons. The board must have a compelling reason to consider. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U64	It is an insult to Tarmo Kruusimäe's claim here that I would like to be in the comfort zone or that my question was that I would like to be in the spa or comfort zone at the hearing. That's insulting. When Mr Kruusimäe did not understand the question, I asked if it was in the debate, and I also received the answer that the remote hearing meant that some were present, some were absent for good reasons. That was the content of the question. But I guess these questions don't always reach the audience.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U65	Yes, indeed, let us be polite and kind to each other. Now, but now, honourable Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to move between 12 and 14. January plenary sessions in the form of a remote sitting. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U66	44 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, against 49. The proposal was not supported. Is there Tarmo on Kruus Hill? No question. He gave up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U67	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to the first item on today, Monday, 11 January. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'll remind you a little bit of the procedure. The rapporteur's presentation shall be no more than 20 minutes and the presentation of the commission shall be no more than 20 minutes; no more than two oral questions may be submitted to both rapporteurs, the duration of which shall be one minute, followed by subsequent negotiations. I'd like the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good session! I will bring before you amendments to the Income Tax Act. In principle, this draft amends three things. Firstly, the regulation of a low-tax territory is replaced by a European Union list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. As a result of the amendment, existing safeguards for a legal person established in a low-tax territory are applied to legal persons established in non-cooperating jurisdictions included in the Union list. The list was last amended on 6 October last year. The list will be updated twice a year: in February and October. According to the European Union guidelines, the Member States of the European Union must apply at least one of the following safeguards: a ban on the deduction of costs, rules on controlled foreign companies, restrictions on the application of withholding tax or the exemption method. At the moment, Estonia is applying two of them: the prohibition on deduction of costs and the restriction on the application of withholding tax and exemption methods to legal persons established in low-tax territories. Secondly, the procedure for calculating the tax-free income of a self-employed person in the country of the contract is changed. The amendment equates the current accounts of the tax-free income of a resident natural person with that of another natural person resident in the Contracting State in Estonia. Until now, the resident of another Contracting State can make all deductions, including tax-free income, in the income tax return of the natural person submitted for the previous calendar year. According to the amendment, the income of the natural person working in Estonia could be taxed on an ongoing basis. Third-country residents shall not be affected by this amendment. The amendment is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year. Third, the daily allowance paid to an official or staff member participating in the European Border and Coast Guard Agency's (Frontex) long-term mission and to the European Asylum Support Office's (EASO) asylum support team's mission, which does not exceed the daily allowance ceiling fixed by Frontex and EASO, as well as compensation for travel, accommodation and other costs, shall be exempt from income tax. Such a brief introduction. I'll answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U69	Ivar Padar, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U70	Yeah. Mr. Minister! It is all very grateful that we are applying various tax exemptions to our international cooperation partners at different levels. But my question concerns Estonian farmers. Exactly six months ago, on 11 June, we have introduced a draft law amending the Income Tax Act concerning self-employed workers, the disposal of their own-produced agricultural products and an increase in the tax-free rate to EUR 5000. It's been standing for six months now. At the same time, the very grateful tax incentives adopted in spring for foresters have already come into effect. In the case of farmers we have held back...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U71	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U72	How far is the subject? What's your position? When will the government and the Committee on Monetary Affairs have a position on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U73	Thank you. It seems to me that we have adopted it together with the state budget and that it will apply from next year. But right now, I can hear a mumble in this hall that I didn't. In any case, there is fundamental political support in the government for this matter. This has to do with the budget debate, of course. I'm a little in my memory right now. My understanding is that we were there in the country, that next year it will come into effect, but if we have not yet formalised it as a law, then we have to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U74	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as a co-rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U75	Good manager! Good waitress! Ivar, I'll answer your question. Today you're doing well, sitting in this hall and listening. The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu added this point to one law in the last week and the law was passed, so it is already valid from 1 January and your concerns have been resolved. But we now come to the first reading of Bill 293 amending the Income Tax Act. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 14 December and prepared it for its first reading. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, and Inga Klauson, Adviser to the Ministry's Tax Policy Department, participated in the discussion. The main objective of the draft law is to establish safeguards against non-cooperative jurisdictions included in the European Union list so that aggressive tax planning is not possible through designated jurisdictions. The second objective is to equalise the calculation of the tax-free income of a resident natural person and another natural person resident in the Contracting State in Estonia. The third objective is to ensure equal treatment in the taxation of the daily allowances, travel, accommodation and other expenses of staff participating in missions of Frontex and EASO in the form of reimbursements to the European Union institution or body for the purposes of taxation of the allowances paid to the SNE and participation in civilian missions. The Commission took four consensual decisions: to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 January 2021, to propose the completion of the first reading, to appoint a speaker as the representative of the lead committee, to propose a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, i.e. the deadline of 25 January 2021 at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U76	Thank you, good waitress. Looks like you don't have any questions. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 293. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline of 25 January at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, Let us go to the next item on the agenda today. This is a draft law 295 on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, as well as a first reading. The rapporteur is Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. But he's just on his way. Five minutes of the chairman's break, please. It starts now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U78	I would like to ask Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige for the first reading of bill 295 of the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U79	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I sincerely apologize for the delay. I was in the right house, but I wasn't in the right room. So it's my fault. Today, I will give an overview of the law amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws. Once again: Honorable President of the Riigikogu and honourable members of the Riigikogu! With bill 295, the Social Welfare Act and the Act amending other laws, we wish to supplement the provisions of the Social Welfare Act governing the organisation of replacement and aftercare services, and we also regulate the wording of the mandate for financial support measures in exceptional circumstances. The draft law also amends the regulation of the child benefit provided for by the Family Benefits Act and extends the target group of beneficiaries of child benefit, child-rich family allowance, child-care allowance and single parent child allowance. In accordance with the same principle, the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act will be amended and the target group of beneficiaries of parental and disability student benefits will be extended. In addition, the fees for social service licences laid down in the State Fees Act will be supplemented. But now it's more specific. Main amendments to the Social Welfare Act. Firstly, the possibilities of contractual relationships with family parents in family homes are extended in replacement care. Because of the need to provide family-like services, the working time of family parents is not currently within the framework of the Employment Contracts Act and therefore the work must be done on the basis of management contracts, which unfortunately does not guarantee the necessary social guarantees for the family parent. For example, sickness insurance is paid out if the family parents are not covered by health insurance, and the family parent is not guaranteed the right to request, or receive, a transfer or release from work as a pregnant woman, and there are other differences. At the same time, the difficult nature of work and the lack of social guarantees make it even more difficult to find and maintain good family parents. The draft extends the possibilities of contractual relations with family parents in the provision of replacement care services. The law is supplemented in such a way that it allows (in addition to the differences laid down in the applicable law in relation to the contract of command) future employment contracts with family parents to be awarded more social guarantees. The Social Welfare Act creates a distinction from the Employment Contracts Act, which allows the conclusion of a contract of employment with a family parent and excludes certain provisions on working and rest periods laid down in § 45.53 of the Employment Contracts Act. Thus, on the one hand, more flexible and employment-related opportunities are created to conclude contracts with family parents and, at the same time, the social guarantees for family parents will be improved by granting an employment contract. In the case of a contract of employment with a family parent, it is necessary to make a distinction from the Employment Contracts Act in the Social Welfare Act, as the nature of the work of family parents makes their activities impossible to fit within the working and rest periods provided for in the Employment Contracts Act. At the same time, the conditions already in place, i.e. the conditions for concluding a contract of command, are not changed compared to the law in force. Perhaps there will be two options: either a contract of command or a contract of employment. So far, the law didn't allow it. The amendment concerns the following target group: in 2019, we have had 211 family parents who raise a total of about 527 children, which is at the end of the year. Secondly, the amendment extends the scope of the aftercare service target group and local authorities' flexibility in the use of the fund's resources. The amendment will ensure greater legal clarity in the referral to after-care for young people who continue to complete their education while in post-care. Perhaps they will now be supported somewhat longer. The possibilities for local authorities to finance after-care services from the Fund will also be broadened if the young person has interrupted his/her studies after leaving replacement care but decides to continue them after a while. Continued studies may concern, for example, young people who have become parents early on, as well as young people who decide to continue their studies only after they have completed their service. Perhaps, in conclusion, we are once again supporting young people who are already in a clearly difficult, more difficult situation than most of us and need undoubtedly additional support in making choices in their lives and pursuing education. The age limit for persons receiving the service is also harmonised in the case of after-care provision. As it is usually not possible to complete studies for young people who have interrupted their studies within the age of 21 years, this age limit will be aligned with other after-care facilities so that the service can be provided, if necessary, to all persons entitled to the service until the end of the age of 24. The amendment concerns the target group to which the local authority may, but is not obliged to provide the service. This does not entail additional responsibilities for local authorities, but opportunities. Indeed, for the target group mentioned above, local authorities do not continue to have an obligation to provide care after-care services, but if the young service is needed and provided by the municipality, it is possible to pay for the same service at the expense of the funds allocated to local authorities for the provision of replacement and after-care services through the Support Fund. The third amendment clarifies the wording of the financial support measures to be implemented in exceptional circumstances. To this end, the terms of reference for financial support measures to be implemented in an emergency situation shall be adjusted. According to the wording of the current mandate rule, the Government of the Republic may only lay down the conditions for support by a regulation and the provisions of the General Part of the Social Code Act fully apply to the procedure and procedure of support. In view of the content of the measures, it may also be necessary to establish differences in the procedure and procedure for the support, which is why the mandate rule needs to be supplemented accordingly by empowering the Government of the Republic to establish the arrangements. Let's move on to the changes to the Family Benefits Act. It specifies, in order to ensure the regulation and legal clarity of the child's allowance, that the child's allowance is paid to a child whose parents do not comply with the obligation under the Family Law to raise and care for the child and to whom the guardian of the self-employed has been appointed. This change does not change the general practice of the Social Insurance Board in paying the child's allowance. The care and rearing of legal persons, including children in the care of local authorities, shall be ensured through a substitute care service which provides for funding from the Fund. The right to receive child benefit, child-rich family allowance, guardian child allowance and single parent child allowance is also extended to include children under 16 years of age without secondary education. Up to now, children in adaptation and work training courses were not entitled to family allowances. This is the case in the present case for older children up to 16 years of age who are studying in the adaptation and work education courses of the Astangu Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation, who do not have normal student status and thus lose the benefits to which other children who study in the same way are entitled. Perhaps the question is purely that the Astangu Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation is not a normal educational institution, but is a state institution managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has a somewhat different status in the current law, and therefore has been deprived of, I would say, particularly for bureaucratic reasons, the very important possibilities of support for both these children and parents. This injustice must be brought to an end according to the bill. In particular, it was 2019/2020. in the academic year at the Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre, students aged 16 to 19 in adaptation and work training courses 42 and this year, 2020/2021. There are 37 in the academic year. Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre is not, as I referred to, a classic educational institution, which is why these children have not yet been entitled to family benefits. As this is a resumption of the payment of family allowances to children participating in the continuing education course of the Astangu Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation, i.e. the payment of benefits has been terminated in the meantime due to lack of grounds and, after the establishment of the legal basis, the payment of the allowance will be resumed, these allowances will be paid from the date of entry into force of the Act on 1 April 2021 and not from the date of expiry of the entitlement to the allowance. In addition, we are amending the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities. There we also wish to grant the right to a disability parent's allowance and a disability student's student's student's education allowance to a child and his or her parent who are included in the list of courses of in-service training of the state institution or Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. We specify in the terms of receiving the allowance that the parents of children with disabilities whose children are up to 19 years of age or students with disabilities who are studying in the adaptation and work training courses of the Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre, a public institution managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The granting of the right to benefit ensures that people are treated in a dignified and equal manner and that the benefits reach families with children who, as a result of the provisions of the current law, have unfortunately been deprived of benefits in relation to the child and the family who continue their studies in the educational institution. Finally, the State Fees Act lays down the rates of state fees for processing the application for social rehabilitation service issued by the Social Insurance Board, the shelter service and the permit for the provision of general care services outside the home. The level of state fees has been set on the basis of the existing state fees for examining applications for social service authorisations (EUR 32). The authorisation requirement for general care and shelter services actually entered into force, as many will remember, on 1 January 2020. Since this was a new obligation for undertakings already operating at the time, the service providers were first given the opportunity to apply for authorisation to continue their activities without State fees. Thus, this amendment does not concern already authorised service providers who, according to the register of economic activities, are on account of 144 social rehabilitations as of 1 January, 15 shelters and 156 non-home general care providers. The state fee for new applications for authorisation will, of course, apply from 1 April 2021 when Parliament approves the law. If the draft amendment to the Act amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws is approved by the Riigikogu in the form set out in 295, § 1 (1) and § 2 (1) and (3) are planned to enter into force on 1 April 2021, as well as § 3 and § 4 and the rest of the paragraphs will enter into force in general following the adoption of the laws. Thank you for your attention. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U80	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U81	Thank you. Thanks for the introduction. In the question, I will focus on the students of Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre, actually also teachers. First of all, I would like to thank you for the preparation of this amendment. This will certainly improve the position of these young people, their ability to cope and the situation of their families. It's quite appropriate. However, in so far as it is only the grant of social benefits, these students will still be unable to obtain support measures in the field of education, be they transport grants or study grants. Similarly, teachers will not be able to obtain all the opportunities that teachers normally have in school-educational institutions. Have you and what cooperation with the Ministry of Education so that the Astangu Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation can fully benefit both teachers and students from the rights and opportunities that are normally available in educational institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U82	Thank you for your question and for your attention. I agree well with this principle that the more we can ensure uniform treatment in the ordinary educational institution and in the Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre or, in fact, in any similar institution, if they are to be added in the future to children studying and their families, their parents, the better, of course. The amendments on which there was a consensus within the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs have indeed been prepared. We have actually been negotiating with the Ministry of Education and Research, and we will definitely continue to do so. I am convinced that Jaak Aab, who has taken over the role of Minister of Education, is now getting involved in this matter. Knowing also his background as Minister of Social Affairs, I believe that we will certainly quickly find a common understanding here that is to be done and that is not to be done. Understandably, it is difficult for us to assess the specifics, details, rates of grants and the legal bases for their implementation. This proposal or initiative, especially in terms of a solution, must come from them. We can draw attention to these things and negotiate. For example, at the moment, in the case of vocational training, these benefits have been solved through the Haapsalu Vocational Education Centre. Perhaps certain such distinctions have been made. And, of course, at least in my view of the world or my understanding, it is important that the state treats young people, students and their parents in the same or similar situation at least equally, especially when we talk, as in the case of Astangu, let us be honest, rather than people in a more difficult situation at least, by supporting them even more than the average student or average parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U83	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U84	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much for this draft. With this draft, we are taking some very important steps in the right direction. As I go to family homes, I have heard family parents raise the question that they can only make a command agreement that does not guarantee them enough social guarantees. Indeed, their work is very difficult and we, as a society, should value it more. The explanatory memorandum to this draft also states that these family parents often have to deal with traumatic children, but this is a very stressful and responsible job. My question is how we support these family parents not to burn out. What kind of support do they receive from either the state or local government in order to get the best out of this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U85	Thank you for your question. First of all, I undoubtedly agree with the view that if we talk about family parents at all, their contribution, it is even difficult to call it a normal job. It's still about commitment, looking out for the well-being and life of children, raising them. Often, as you rightly said, it is not the provision of care, attention, and support that are needed for children with the least needed background. The role of the state and local government must certainly be to support family parents at every step of the way. And support is needed not only for family parents, but especially for families as a whole, both for children and for parents who care for them. Some national support services are offered, supervision options are offered, both individually and by group, as well as training opportunities. This is done by the state in cooperation with local authorities. This is certainly the kind of day-to-day observation that is important here. Even this example that it is often behind contracts or forms of taking the role of family parent, apart from being already emotionally, psychologically, and spiritually very responsible and carrying a very heavy burden. The state is able to offer, as in the case of today's example, that the legal framework and support are as large and sufficient as possible, so that at least these considerations do not constitute an obstacle to the choice of otherwise prepared family parent. So there is also a need to expand support, counselling and training, and to listen to people and take into account feedback to find out what other places to consider, whether or not the same access to support services already referred to, as well as legislative issues, advice issues and exchange of experience issues. A lot has also been said about the issues of leave and the possibility of a replacement or support if necessary in the meantime. But, of course, having met several family parents myself, a replacement family, I am told that it is generally very warm and supportive families who are happy to spend their holiday moments together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U86	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Various changes and suggestions have been made about this draft from the intention to develop it until it reaches this Riigikogu table. They're accounted for, I understand. At the same time, if we take apart the table of coordination, we will see that the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, which actually represents local authorities and is most directly involved in the topic of social welfare, has also made proposals, but their first proposal has not been taken into account. So this is a further change in the regulation of substitution care. I'm not going to read this paragraph, but it's on page 2. Maybe you could take a look at it and explain in a simple way why it wasn't counted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U88	Yes, of course, when it comes to presenting these proposals, I am more than convinced that each author is based on the so-called "living situation" and the possibilities to improve it. In turn, the Ministry of Social Affairs has based itself on the best social considerations and knowledge. Indeed, the concrete proposal you are referring to is, I suppose, point 1, and it is also permitted to take note of it in future and to clarify that the issue raised requires a little more in-depth analysis. With regard to the current regime, which requires the provision of replacement care in separate premises, depending on whether the child is placed in replacement care on the basis of subsection 455 (3) (1) of the Social Tax Act or paragraphs 2 and 3. Perhaps, if there is interest and desire, we can undoubtedly send the Ministry of Social Affairs a more precise overview of why we have come to this statement that it is not possible to take this proposal into account at the moment. But in general, the Ministry of Social Affairs has always been based on what the social sector considers to be the best for children, their well-being, their legal protection and the protection of their privacy. Perhaps if there is interest, we will send a more comprehensive answer, but in the main, their arguments and answers are actually presented here in the coordination table.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U89	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U90	Thank you. A question about the child's support. This change is now specified in the form that if a child is assigned a guardian of a self-employed person, the allowance will then be extended. However, in cases where children are in substitution care at the service provider's place and in the custody of the local government, no payment is made. The question is whether payment to these children was also considered, because in theory, but also in practice, it is possible that the guardian of the child is not really raising the child, but has decided to raise the child and that the child is actually growing up with the substitute care provider. In such a case, it is as if this right is extended, which in turn creates the situation that children have actually been treated differently when living with a substitute care provider.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U91	Thank you. If you are thinking, in particular, of the fact that the payment of support to children in custody of legal persons is regulated differently, because it is local authorities that do not directly raise children themselves, then I understand that the justification has indeed been that the raising of these children is guaranteed and that the necessary support is also provided through a replacement service financed by the local authorities' support fund. Perhaps this logic and the principle of funding, the principle of support, is different here. No? [[S. Riisalo says something about the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U92	Unfortunately, there is no right to speak in the hall like this. But I'm hoping the minister might be able to supplement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U93	Yes, right now, I must say that this question also needs to be clarified in writing, just in case. We'd be happy to answer that. Certainly, it has not been our consideration to support any child.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U94	Thank you. No further questions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we can open negotiations. Oh, I'm sorry! It's too early to negotiate. We also have Liina Kersna, rapporteur for the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law introduced by the Minister, i.e. the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws, at its meeting on 14 December, which was also attended by the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, Adviser to the Minister Tarmo Kurves, Head of the Child Welfare Department, Hanna Vseviov and Adviser Helen Jõks. The Minister introduced the draft very thoroughly to us as well as to you in this Chamber. Since these amendments are indeed long awaited, the members of the Social Affairs Committee did not raise any questions. The Commission proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 13 January, but the proposal of the Riigikogu's management board raised it two days earlier, i.e. it remained on 11 January. The Commission also proposed that the first reading be completed and that I be appointed as the representative of the commission, i.e. Liina Kersnat. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, which the Commission also consensually supported, as did all other decisions. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U96	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no further questions on this subject. Proposal by the Governing Commission... Now I would have skipped the negotiations again. Would you like to start the negotiations? Representatives of the political groups may take the floor. I don't think that's what I want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 295. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline of 25 January at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U97	That concludes our agenda items, except that everyone who wishes now has the opportunity to register for speaking in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U98	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days it has been extremely interesting to explore the minds of colleagues. I am thinking of the nearly ten thousand proposals with which colleagues have blocked the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. But I'm not gonna talk in general here, I'm gonna talk in concrete terms. In fact, from the serious proposals put forward by Members, each proposal reflects the ambassador, his inner world, his deeper fears and requests. I haven't been able to analyze all of them, but some I've done, and I'll introduce them to you a little bit. In fact, I think it would be worth looking at and analysing journalists and those interested in social life, who are the performers, which proposals dominate and why they are. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has spoken of this as pointing out that there is such a desire for the Soviet Union, a group of at least seven envoys among fellow reformers. But let's take a broader look, let's take a more specific look. I have been able to analyse precisely who has presented who is the first performer, and who has signed, because there are still so-called satellites, whose signature is also there. Take, for example, Mr Pevkuri, who is former Minister for Justice and the Interior. What excites him the most? He's a great friend of nature. I'm surprised he doesn't work in the Committee on the Environment. For example, Mr Pevkur wants to know whether the national bird of Estonia should be a sparrow. He's asking with General Laaneots and Annely Akkermann. Or another: "Is Estonian national animal supposed to be a rat? ' It is also presented with Annely Akkermann. Or, "Should pets be banned? ' That's what he's asking with my colleague Mihkelson. Or, 'Is the Estonian national tree supposed to be willow? "With General Laaneots and Liina Kerna. Or the following: "Should the state set a standard for the size of potatoes? ', with my colleague Kranich. Or school and children: "Shall school food be stopped? ', with my colleague Randpere, Kross and Jaanson. Or, "Should the evaluation at school be completed? ' My colleague Everaus has just left, but he wants to know, too, that is his proposal. More: Should the state limit the number of children in the family? ' That is what colleagues Sutt and Riisalo, seemingly normal people, want to know. Or another thing: "Should the child benefit be stopped? ', with my colleague Milling. Or the media, by the way, the former Minister of Justice and the Home Affairs, is concerned with controlling the media. First suggestion, official: 'Should Facebook be banned? ', along with General Laaneots and colleague of the Gridship. Or another thing: "Should the central government control the media? ', along with my colleague, Jaanson, and the Gridship. Or: "Would social media be banned in the Republic of Estonia? ' Differently said, but fellow questioners are colleagues of Alender and Purga. It was about a vigilante. Or take Mr Randpere, for example. He has such a great interest in nature and cars as it doesn't. But he's dominated by such desires, more to the east. For example, Mr Randpere, alone, denies the question 'Do we need to restore collective farms in Estonia? '. Many have not paid attention to this. If you remember, he had much prouder proposals. For example, the question: 'Is Estonia supposed to initiate the restoration of the Soviet Union? ', with my colleague Pevkur and Sut. All nice people, multiple ministers. Or another, along with the former Minister of the Interior Laanet: 'Should stealing be allowed in Estonia? ' Or with my colleague Kranich and Sõerd, once again respected people, reasonable and educated, but want to ask this question: 'Is criticising the Soviet Union supposed to be punishable? ' That's all I'm gonna read around here. Anyone can watch for themselves. In any case, it is a very interesting faction to describe the deeper fears, perceptions and interests of colleagues. I am not going to talk about the company that is here wanting to return to the Soviet Union and disband NATO, etc. In any case, these topics could actually be distributed among all Riigikogu committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U99	Dear colleague Kalle Grünthal, if you want a word in a free microphone, you must press the speech button, not the speech button. Thank you! Next, I'd like to ask Kalle Grünthal for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week was extremely busy in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Since I am also a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I say that, from Wednesday to Sunday, we discussed such a very simple and logical matter in itself, the draft decision of the Riigikogu: to ask the referendum what the concept of marriage should be in the Republic of Estonia, whether it should be a union of men and women. But this simple debate took an extremely long time because the Social Democrats and the Reform Party had tabled an enormous number of amendments to this very simple question, according to my data, to a total of 9386. I'm not even going to talk about what happened in that hearing. But during these days, and now also during that day, I have developed my own vision of the role played by the Reform Party in this Parliament. And this picture isn't good at all. First of all, neither the Reform Party nor the Social Democrats wish to give the people who are, according to the Constitution, the highest authority the opportunity to speak up in lawmaking. Point two is that among these 9386 amendments were those in which I personally see the threat to the security of the Estonian state and its existence. I will read out some of the amendments tabled by the Reform Party, although my colleague, Mr Ernits, did so in part. The highest power is the people who are asked this question: "Would it be better to live in the Republic of Estonia if the Republic of Estonia were part of Russia? Or, " Should Saaremaa be surrendered to Latvia? ' Then there is the proposal for Estonia to withdraw from NATO and the proposal for Estonia to initiate the restoration of the Soviet Union. More: Should Estonia be part of Russia's sphere of influence? 'or 'Does Estonia prohibit the provision of education in Estonian? ' The question raised by Urmas Kruus, Jüri Jaanson and General Laaneots, 'Would it be better to live in the Republic of Estonia if the Republic of Estonia were part of Russia after the rise of the media? ' The rest of the proposals that I have read here have gone through the procedure and come to the debate in this Chamber. I cannot agree with our President's view that these are simply political games. Parliament does not play, Parliament presents drafts and makes proposals for the exercise of state authority. And when such proposals are carried out by state authority, such proposals will in the long term have an absolutely clear sign of significance. Those who presented it, in the composition of the Reform Party, want to return to the great Russia. These aren't political games. This picture has been designed before. While our esteemed President of the Riigikogu, Henn Põlluaas, spoke about handling the borders of the Tartu Peace Treaty, Marko Mihkelson, a member of the Reform Party, announced that we are threatening our security with such statements. It's a game far away. Finally. I have a question: why did our President go to Russia without telling us why? Why did he invite Putin here? I can't answer that question, but I think the masks have fallen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-11_U101	Thank you. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice day.
