ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the VI plenary session. First... [[It's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we have the opportunity to listen to the oath of a member of the Supreme Court, Heili Sepa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U2	I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U3	Now, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 15 ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I present an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Erki Savisaar. The subject concerns a large number of Estonian people and is directly related to crisis preparedness. Therefore, a very important issue that has received unfortunately little attention. In recent weeks, messages have started to sound that tell us that Estonia is starting to encourage the abandonment of furnace heating. There are stoves, stoves, fireplaces, and boilers. Already next year, you can ask for support to give up your domestic oven heating. This is a dangerous tendency, as stoves, stoves and fireplaces are the only way for people to warm up their rooms and cook if necessary in the event of a major crisis, such as a longer blackout. In this context, we have a total of eight questions for the Minister for the Environment on the promotion of the abandonment of furnace heating and the related longer targets, to which we would like answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U5	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 17 delegates of the Conservative People's Party Group, I will present an inquiry to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas concerning Estonia's efforts to support Ukraine and to increase the presence of the Allied Forces in the Baltics. This year, for the second time, Russia has concentrated a large contingent of over 100,000 people near the borders of Ukraine. The years of low-intensity armed conflict in Eastern Ukraine, where almost every week a Ukrainian military soldier has been wounded or killed, can escalate into Russia's full-scale military aggression against Ukraine. It is clear that Russia considers Ukraine to be in its sphere of influence, and the current Russian leadership is doing everything in its power to bring Ukraine back there. Ukraine's accession to NATO and the European Union would be an unbearable defeat for Russia, because it would inevitably also put an end to the great ambitions of our eastern neighbour. It is also clear that following the defeated NATO Article 5 operation in Afghanistan in August this year, both Russian and Chinese leaders may see US President Joe Biden as a hesitant and indecisive leader. China's temptation to use military force in Taiwan is growing, which in turn also affects Russia towards greater aggression. Western European countries are becoming increasingly energy dependent on Russia. After the closure of the coal and nuclear power plants, the fixed capacity of the German power plants is mainly based on Russian gas. The dependence on Russia's energy carriers severely limits the diplomatic and military freedom of action of our European allies, but NATO should nevertheless speak with one voice to Russia. Ukraine cannot be decided behind its back or over our heads to solve Eastern European issues. In this context, as well as the need to increase the presence of the Allied forces, we have 18 questions in total in six blocks for the Prime Minister. Thank you! That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U7	Mart Helme, do you have a procedural question? I'd love to put Heili Tõnisson on the remote as a representative of the government. But do you have a procedural question about the referral of inquiries and drafts now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U8	On hand-over. My question...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U9	I'll call Heili Tõnisson. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U10	I'm sorry! Then I'll ask you my question later.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U11	Thank you! Please, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law. The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U13	Thank you! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and two enquiries, and we will decide on their further processing as usual under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please, Mart Helme! You have a procedural question now, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U14	Yeah. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I see today's schedule, not the plan, but the broader work programme of the week, that we do not have another Prime Minister in Question Time. This is the third Question Time in a row where we do not have a Prime Minister here. However, we know that last week the Prime Minister was here in the Riigikogu and met, in the presence of witnesses, with the chairman of his group. So he was completely there. Is the Prime Minister afraid of the Riigikogu or has he declared a boycott to the Riigikogu? Can you comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U15	Thank you. As far as I know, the Prime Minister is not afraid of the Riigikogu; he is always ready to come here when there is an opportunity and a reason. Well, now we really have one clarification on the agenda that you have mentioned. But before we go to this clarification, we need to carry out a presence check so that we can implement the hearing. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U16	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present. Mr. Pier, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U17	Yes, thank you! We remember here at the beginning of this government when the Prime Minister hid like Stalin. Three days it was absolutely impossible for the Riigikogu to reach him, although the members of the Riigikogu insisted on his arrival every day. Now you have said that the Prime Minister will come when he considers it important. Doesn't it matter, then, that the Prime Minister doesn't want to come here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U18	Thank you. As far as I know, this Wednesday the Prime Minister will be at the European Council. Mr. Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U19	Good vice-chairman, but has the Prime Minister even been sent an invitation from the board?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U20	Thank you. You don't have to ask me that. It's in the briefing rules. Okay. With regard to the agenda, we have such a story that on the agenda announced by the 11th working week of this House there are 480 SEs, namely the second reading of the draft law amending the Treaty on European Stability Mechanism ratification and implementation, scheduled for today, and the third reading is scheduled for Wednesday. In Riigikogu's management board, we did not reach a consensus on the second and third reading of this draft during the same working week. My colleague, Martin Helme, opposed this. As the Bureau did not reach consensus on this, Martin Helme asks that this question be put to the vote in accordance with § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. And consequently... Mr. Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U21	Thank you. Would the President be so kind as to explain to the large hall why it was even planned for the third item on Wednesday in such a way that the second and third readings, two readings one week? Last week we were behind this problem, I think you ran it, and then you said it was exceptional, and so on. Now we are again [in the same place]. It's getting kind of routine every week. What were the arguments and reasons that it was even planned this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U22	Yeah, thanks! Indeed, I continue to believe that doing second and third readings one week is exceptional. This draft has to be taken into account that it is also linked to the approval of another draft directive, No 479 of which is the approval of the European Stability Mechanism. And since 480 SE is involved in domestic activities so that by the beginning of the year all of these activities can be implemented, this is the reason why, in addition to 479 SE, 480 SE would need to be processed before the end of the Riigikogu meetings this year. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U23	Thank you. For the sake of clarity of the procedure, I would like to know how long a step, or with what distance in time, should these exceptions be distinguished from each other before they come out again? This is already several times during the season in which the Riigikogu is requested to deal with the same draft several times in one week. How long should these exceptions be separated from each other so that we can talk about exceptions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U24	Thank you! That's not the rule we have. But the fact is, even during my practice in this Chamber since 2007, says that there have been exceptions either before the end of the spring session or before the end of the autumn session, i.e. just before the end of the year, because they are connected in a way or with the arrival of the second new year and the enforcement of the drafts from the new year. It's usually been the case, but we don't have a specific rule. As I said, we will certainly keep this line, as well as the committee chairmen know, that, if possible, two readings will not be planned for one week. Mr. Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Now I don't understand your explanation. The question was specific, substantive. Then why are we not dealing with this draft in a regular procedure that is consistent with practice? You indicated that another bill, which is in the proceedings of our Parliament this week, is to blame, and this bill is forcing us to do so. However, the draft law cannot force us, after all, Parliament itself will decide on the issues at which pace these matters are to be dealt with in accordance with its own practices. How does this obsession between the President of the sitting or a majority of Parliament's Bureau within it mean that we absolutely have to adopt everything by 1 January in accordance with this logic? What do you say that is based on? Does this directive include a requirement to introduce it on 1 January? Have other Member States also done so on 1 January? Explain the timeline. We need to get a substantive answer. The fact that another draft law requires it, what does this other bill require separately? After all, this second bill must also be removed from the agenda of this working week, in a healthy way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U26	Thank you! However, I very much ask you that, even if you are trying to quote the President of the sitting, let us try to remain precise. The President of the sitting said nothing about blaming, guilt or coercion. I drew our attention to the fact that this bill relates to Bill 479. Your questions can be answered today, I hope, during the procedure of this draft Dmitri Dmitriev, who will present this draft to us at second reading and will tell us why it must be adopted before the turn of the year. However, as far as I understand the draft, it relates to the joint desire of Member States to complete their activities with the European Stability Mechanism at the end of this year. And in order to be able to carry out the domestic activities related to Bill 480, we should have this adopted before the end of this week's work, because next week we will no longer have work in this big Chamber. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U27	Thank you! Mr President, I ask what happens when we process this draft as we say, the normal procedure. What catastrophic events would occur if this were the case, for example, in January? I assume there will be no blackout in South Estonia and Võrtsjärv will not cross shores. So what is the catastrophic reason that we have to do this now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U28	Thank you. As a rule, I don't like to do divination. I try to build on what the committees have brought us here, also in the work of the Riigikogu Board. The committee's request was that this procedure take place this week. And on the Riigikogu's board we found at least two parties found so that yes, it could be done. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U29	Yeah, thanks! Since you have touched on it at least twice now, you have already said that we must start with the way in which the committees have brought us some drafts into this Chamber, and you have justified that it is the end of the year and Christmas, then I ask whether the Commission, which should regulate this process, really does not have a calendar, or does not know how to look at this calendar. Or maybe there is some inadequacy or inadequacy in the management of the pending committee, so that we have this poor working arrangement back on the table in this big hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U30	Thank you. I am not taking an assessment of the work of the committees at the moment. Because, as I said, we had this debate in the Bureau, we had different opinions, and now it is true that the great hall is the one who can now make the decision whether or not we are prepared to deal with it one week. Mr. Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U31	Thank you, Mr President. To some extent, the previous speaker agrees with the question. If the Commission has done its work as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible what may be within its competence, is the question that for some reason the government has delayed it? Or is it, true story, that these materials come from Europe so late that the Member States have a completely last minute? There must be a fish somewhere that we have come to a situation where, according to you, Parliament is essentially being pushed to a wall or corner at this point, and we are forced to move on with it at this rate. Where is the nature of the problem? Has the board found out that maybe it's too late from the government to be here on our desks?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U32	We will stick to the fact that all substantive questions that are not procedural can be asked nicely by the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I think it would be perfectly correct and fair, because it is not a procedural question in any way. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U33	Thank you, Mr President. You said today that this urgency procedure is exceptional and you do not want it. I believe you and that you are absolutely sincere in this statement. However, I have the impression that at this moment Parliament is reduced to a level lower than the Commission. Perhaps the Commission will decide what it sends to the hall and so on. And Parliament will basically be put in a coercive situation, that we now have to deal with it. However, I dare to doubt that you still have certain levers for handling these matters and bringing them to this hall. Since it is already several times to deal with a bill like this, I think you should take the lead and not allow situations like this if you are really sincere, as you said. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U34	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu, together with its good assistants, communicates with committees all the time. Indeed, we are essentially looking at these issues and discussing them. For example, on the agenda of this week, we have a key national issue initiated by the Special Committee on State Budget Control, where there were two competing proposals: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs wanted to put Chancellor Ülle Madise as the first point of office, but the Special Committee on State Budget Control wanted its point as the first point. This is, of course, what we are discussing in the Bureau. Since we found that the OTRK must be fully dealt with on this issue, it cannot go over, unlike other items on the agenda, we supported the Special Committee on State Budget Control, although I know that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not satisfied with this in any way. So we must always find compromises. Of course, I am always sincere in communication with you, in communication with the committees and in the work of the Bureau. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U35	Thank you. I understand that you represent this side of the board and the position that has brought this draft to this Chamber exceptionally for processing. But I am asking because I do not have the opportunity to ask right now, and we may not be discussing in this detail what is happening on your board, what was the position of the third party, Martin Helme, on this matter. What was his disagreement as to how he explained it, and why didn't you take it into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U36	Thank you. That's what you can ask Martin. He'll be right... well, he'll be here. I think you know him too, he's not quite a stranger to you. I can really say at the moment that Mr Helme did not agree to this procedure this week; he wanted to let it be decided by the large hall and left a dissenting opinion. That is what we are trying to do here now, perhaps to find out whether the great hall agrees that we are dealing with these matters one week. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Since the Board of the Riigikogu is proposing an exception in this case, in other words, that our practice of not reading the second and third readings for one week is violated, there must be compelling substantive arguments. Would you now say clearly what were the substantive arguments in the Bureau that led you to realise that both the second and third readings must be done this week and thus violate our practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U38	Thank you. Well, we have discussed here before that, exceptionally, it is possible to do a second and a third reading in one week. This bill, as I said, is also linked to bill 479. It is certainly possible for you to ask the rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs for more substantive arguments. We were based on the fact that this request was indeed made to us by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The explanation was that drafts 479 and 480 are linked. One is the transposition of the directive, which is at two readings, and once it has been transposed, it is also necessary to adopt 480 to carry out national operations. Member States have agreed among themselves that, by 1 January indicatively, operations under national law have been completed in order to enable Member States to carry out further operations. I hope this explains why we thought it was right to do this this week. If we had a hearing next week, then surely the third reading would have taken place next week. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U39	Thank you. As I understood, since Mr Helme voted against bringing this hall, all board members still have the right of discretion, let us say, when adopting this decision. The principle is that you, too, had the opportunity to actually vote against bringing it to the hall, if you are now saying that you were absolutely sincere in the fact that this is how the second and third readings take place one week. Why, then, did you choose to deviate from such an impartial attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U40	Thank you. I would rather say that Mr Helme was not against bringing the room, but, on the contrary, he was in favour of bringing this question to the Chamber so that the large hall would decide whether we were discussing this issue or not at second and third reading. But it's kind of a linguistic specification. I got your point. And about that, like I said, Martin's opinion was that it shouldn't be discussed one week. We found, the other members of the board felt that this could be discussed exceptionally one week. Since this is undecided, we must vote through it, but we cannot vote until we reach it. Mr. Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U41	Mr President of the sitting! Now a very paradoxical situation has arisen. The situation you referred to in the handling of draft laws on one working week, if I point out correctly, was that this matter, 480, should enter into force on 1 January. However, if I look at the 480 of the bill, there is no date of entry into force defined by a specific date. There is no word here about the date of entry into force, which means that it is dealt with in general terms. Please explain to me where this misleading information came from for Parliament on 1 January, so that 480 should come into force on 1 January. There is no reference to the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U42	Thank you, Mr Reinsalu. If you take a verbatim report, then [you can read from it what I said]. I didn't say it had to come into force on 1 January, I said by the end of the year. Mr Reinsalu, these are related drafts, as I said, 479 and 480. Of course, if the big hall decides that we will not do two readings, or the second and third readings, for 480 SEs in one week, then we will not process them in one week. If the big hall decides we're gonna process them one week, we're gonna process it one week. This does not mean that we will finish second reading and adopt the draft at third reading. There too, procedurally, the Isamaa Group has the right to propose that the second reading be interrupted, so there is also this possibility. What the great hall decides is the decision of the great hall. The first decision is whether we are going to deal with it one week, the second decision is whether we are going to finish the second reading, that is today, and the third decision is that if we finish the second reading, then will we also be finishing it at the third reading. These are all the different decisions that the great hall must make, but here we are discussing something that cannot yet be called a decision. Mr. Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U43	Thank you. Since I have now realised that 480 SE does not have to enter into force on 1 January 2022, there is no indication in the explanatory memorandum that it should then enter into force, I have looked and worked here now through this explanatory memorandum, which is relatively short, then I have a proposal to stick to our good parliamentary practice and culture, so we will not do two readings in one week. The proposal is the second item on Wednesday, the third reading of the 479 SE, the deletion of the third item on the agenda and the deletion of the third item, the third reading of the 480 SE. Then we can calmly do 480 SE's second reading today and next week we can do third readings and we can also accept them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U44	Yes, Mr Seeder, this proposal, which you have just made, is essentially the proposal made by Mr Helme in the Bureau. So in that sense, we would try to get to that vote, but we still have procedural questions here that we should resolve first. So, unfortunately, I cannot even put this proposal of yours to the vote. This is not your proposal, it is Martin Helme's proposal. We'll try to get to that when we've got all the additional procedural issues to deal with, but I don't know what time we'll be there. Mr. Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U45	Thank you. I am still essentially trying to understand what these compelling arguments were that the majority of the Bureau proposed to violate our practice. I will now try to get an answer from the President on what will happen if we do not adopt the draft law 480 this week, but accept it on our first working week of the new year, either on 10 or 11 January. What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U46	Thank you. I'll start at the end. This is again a substantive question to which Mr Dmitriev should perhaps be asked. But as far as I can tell, if the big hall decides so, that's the right of the big hall. The law enters into force in general terms after it has been adopted by the Riigikogu. It's as simple as that. Your first question has to do with this. It was simply, as I said, that the Committee on Monetary Affairs had to make a second and third reading one week and, given the circumstances, we considered it possible. But now, coming to the end of your question again, indeed, if the great hall of the Riigikogu does not process it, it will push us to a new year and in that case the Riigikogu will adopt it in the new year. And he enters into force in general, that's true. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U47	Thank you, Mr President. In my previous questions, I have tried to remain on an official level that goes with such procedural questions, by the way, your sincerity in the autopsy of this issue. But unfortunately, I'm also forced to open up a little bit of the kitchen side, which maybe then is often not implemented. There is no secret, I believe you know it too, and I have learned it in this short time too, that in fact the leaders of the government coalition are giving orders to the committee presidents when [some draft] has to enter the Chamber. Since you are still involved with the ruling party, I would not like to believe in any way that you are not familiar with why it was put here like this. In fact, it's still an order from your party leaders to send these drafts into this hall by then. Have I got it all wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U48	Thank you. Well, it's not procedural. But as much as I can say, I don't know, maybe when the EKRE was in the government, ministers somehow gave orders to the Riigikogu. I, of course, have not felt like I was told to do anything by anyone working in the committee or working here on the Board of the Riigikogu. I am free in my mandate, as are you and like all other members of the Riigikogu. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U49	Thank you. Indeed, if we now vote on it here, we will not vote on the content of these drafts, but vote on the procedure, on the procedure. This is where I have a very serious problem. Now, if we let it pass again, it's going to happen like I'm not going to say, it's not just gonna get screwed up anymore, it's gonna be a bunch of screwups, because it's already gonna happen several times. If we let this mess through again in this big hall, and if it goes through, we will basically be in a situation in the future where it might mean that the Committee on Monetary Affairs or any committee chairmen are going to loosen their tie. That's a very bad precedent, because that's when they think the big hall will do the job for them. In general, I call on all Members to vote against this item, even if it does not happen in the future. Because I see it can happen very freely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U50	Thank you. This was not procedural, but as a brief comment, I would say that it has also happened in the past not only in the present but also in the past that there has indeed been a second and third reading in one week. I, without currently having the statistics and facts available, can expect and assume that, even during this period, when the EKRE had the opportunity to assume government responsibility, there were cases where there were two and three readings together in one week. And I dare say that in the future we still sometimes have an urgent need to do a second and a third reading one week. Let's not take the view that it's somehow a devil or a sinner or anything like that. If we have this need, the Riigikogu must also have the flexibility to do so if necessary. Indeed, the practice is that we do not do this, and indeed, we have always tried to rely on the fact that we do not do second and third readings in one week. But if it is necessary, it must be used. Mr. Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U51	Thank you, Mr President. I fully agree with you, and I believe that the hall does not dispute that, if there is a need and a reason for urgent action, political differences will be overcome and dealt with as a matter of urgency. I would have liked to ask you about the first answers. True, after looking at the verbatim, I believe you agree that you actually gave the hall a clear signal that it needed to be enforced on 1 January. I would have liked to ask you, in this case, why not think about extraordinary sessions? Since it has now become clear that there is no need for this on 1 January, i.e. there is no urgency, in time, I would still like a clear answer from you, which is why the Bureau wishes to carry out two readings in one week. I do not think that the answer should be stenfareticly that the Commission has proposed this. I think you are the filter that will then see whether or not this matter is justified and you will take this decision. So please be nice and say please... Mr. Ligi, please don't interrupt! Please tell me why you decide to do two readings one week because there is no more time-critical.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U52	Thank you. I guess this time-criticality is a little bit in the eye of the viewer. Indeed, the draft states that it will enter into force in general. That doesn't mean he's not time-critical. And like I said, Bill 479 and 480 are connected. Again, I suggest you ask Mr Dmitri this question, because he is certainly more familiar with the details than I am with the subject. However, as far as I understand it is linked to the fact that the partner countries of the stability mechanism have, together, wanted the necessary steps to be taken this year. And to ensure that national activities are also carried out as quickly as possible, it would be good for Parliament to adopt both 479 and 480 more during this week. Then the President of the Republic would also be able to review them, declare laws and carry out the necessary actions. But I believe that we essentially... Respectables! I understand you and Mr. Ligi need to talk things out between yourselves, but in terms of content, respectables, I don't think we're going to get much smarter here. We actually have the opportunity to decide for ourselves whether or not we are dealing with it in the big hall. If the large hall decides that we will not be dealing with it this week, then the subject is off the agenda and we do not need to deal with it any further. I do not see that we would need to know more about the substance of these remaining procedural issues. Mr. Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U53	Thank you. However, we have moved closer to the truth with this debate. We have now realised that there is really no need, and also the reason why it should be processed today and Wednesday, one week, there is not, because from 1 January these laws do not have to enter into force, it is simply a proposal from the Commission. But my procedural question now comes to this. You said that you could not put my proposal to the vote, because Mr Helme has already proposed the same. I don't know what Martin Helme proposed, but you're only talking about 480 SEs. But since they are linked, as you say, my proposal was both a second and a third point, i.e. to remove both 479 SE and 480 SE from the Wednesday agenda. It's probably a different proposal than Martin Helmel. So I ask you to vote on it and take a position to delete these two points. Then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and good parliamentary culture, we will be able to adopt these laws in good time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U54	First of all, we have a disagreement with the board. Once we have discussed the Bureau's disagreement, we will be discussing the agenda. And on the agenda, in turn, I would like to inform you that, if you would like to take a moment in the meantime, before we can deal with other procedural matters here, you will briefly look at § 54 (4) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, you will see that there has been a statement on how we can exclude the items that have been announced from the agenda. Mr. Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U55	Thank you, Mr President. I don't like the way this debate is going, I'm going to say it frankly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U56	Me neither.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U57	Somehow, we are getting jealous of this culture of work, and I do not understand the real motives that are pushing us into this kind of handwriting of the leadership of Parliament. We now come back to what actually happened at the Riigikogu Board meeting. I think this House needs this information because you are speaking, Mr President, on behalf of the Bureau, but you do not have a mandate for this at the moment, because the Bureau has not taken a decision. No decision has been taken. There are different concepts among the individual members of the board. I have a request that you try to restore the Bureau's meeting in your head and to explain, (a) the reasoning of the lead committee for a procedure seeking infringement of Parliament's practice, (b) the views of the member of the Bureau who opposed the proposal of the lead committee, and (c) the arguments of those Bureau members whose conduct or vote has led you to face this proposal in plenary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U58	Mr. Reinsalu! When I finish this session here in one hour and 22 minutes, maybe we can go sit in the cafeteria and discuss these practices in the Riigikogu, how the content of the Special Committee on State Budget Control is about the market price of electricity and the control of the state budget, and other topics. When you said that the work of the Riigikogu is getting jealous, I really feel that in some points we get a little jealous, not everyone stays on their agendas and frames. Your right, under the Rules of Procedure, to bring into the Chamber all kinds of things that are not even in your committee's work programme. But the comment I'm gonna make is that we're gonna discuss it at the cafeteria. Coming to your question, I say that there was no long debate in the Bureau. Mr Helme disagreed, and now we would like to vote on this disagreement. So in this sense, my sincere recommendation would be that we go to this vote, so we will find out. Mr. Reinsalu! I listened to you very carefully, so maybe you'll listen to me. If we vote through this, we will know, even the large hall will either agree or disagree with this draft to be dealt with at two readings, two readings and three readings this week. It's as simple as that. Mr. Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U59	Good manager! That's a simple question. For the last six months now, you have been carrying a new draft of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, a revised version, and have now sent the text to the political groups for discussion. How do you feel about whether it should continue to be that, if you do not have a place of residence, I agree that every time there is a special situation, [then there is another thing], the second and third reading should be done in the same week? At the moment, I can say as a Member of the Commission, certainly not. And many countries have not yet ratified this draft, so there is no concern. Why are we still discussing this today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U60	Thank you. We are discussing this because the Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed this to us. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U61	Mr President, can you explain why this draft is so important and time-critical that it must necessarily be dealt with within this year's number? After all, every week we have a large number of drafts in the proceedings, many of which directly concern Estonia's life, the functioning of the Republic of Estonia and all the areas that are extremely important. Now all of a sudden, we are going to have some kind of guideline from some Brussels officials from the European Union that there is a need to change some points in the European stability mechanism, that is a very fast and very important thing, and then we are going to do it very quickly, in violation of the good practice that we are discussing here for so long. Why is this bill so important compared to all the other things we discuss in the Riigikogu every week?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U62	Thank you. Well, we've been discussing this for a long time, and there was no additional knowledge here, neither a question nor an answer. I believe that we are in the same position to continue to have a proposal, we have a disagreement and we need to resolve it in the big hall. There's no other art here. So let's not create illusions. I understand that you have already mentioned Brussels here and that it has come from somewhere. The European Union, that is us, too, that is it. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U63	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to give you an interesting comparison right now. The Government of the Republic must, as we know, submit a draft of the state budget three months before the beginning of the financial year. I think the budget was 13-point-something. Now the Government of the Republic has initiated the draft, precisely what we are discussing here, on 8 November. Today, what is he? December 13th, such a date. One volume has 13.4 billion and the volume discussed in this draft is 65 billion. How do you logically explain that our procedure for processing a smaller amount is going to be here for a very long time, for months, but now that we have the amount that this bill concerns, EUR 65 billion, we will do this in principle within a month.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U64	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U65	Thank you, good vice chairman. I would like to point out that there is quite a marked lack of truth in your answers. I hate to say that you've shattered a little, but I say, however, you have misled us by suggesting that you turn to Dmitriyev with substantive questions. We know in advance that if he responds that these things were not discussed in the Commission before he sent it to second reading, he will say that these things were not discussed. Therefore, ambassadors who want to know what these substantive questions are, why is this the case should be known to the Riigikogu Board. But it is clear from this current debate and debate that Mr Helme has opposed and you are flexibly impartial. So what did George Wheel break you off with?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U66	All political groups have their own representatives in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and these representatives will hopefully also bring this information to you in the groups [and explain] what one or the other point means in terms of content. Of course, the Commission rapporteur must also be able to answer your questions about what was discussed in the Commission. So in that sense, there is no other way around the truth or whatever you called it. There is a point before us now where we need to decide whether or not we are discussing the two drafts at two readings this week. Nothing complicated. Mr. Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U67	Thank you very much, Mr President. I caught that boomerang you threw at Urmas Reinsalu. But I still want to say that this question was very well founded, because we know the saying that it is not only we that are being spoken to in this Chamber, but that we are talking to the people. People are watching it. I imagine Urmas may be invited to this cafe and talking, but inviting the people is complicated, the cafeteria just doesn't fit that much. Therefore, I would ask that you explain to the public and to the entire Parliament what this argument was and why it was justified that the Rules of Procedure law would be trampled down in this way. I would also like to remind you that the President has already said in a previous decision that the violation of the Rules of Procedure Act itself already makes the draft unconstitutional. But this draft is, by its very nature, particularly sharp, because it has already been discussed in the Riigikogu in an earlier version. So, after all, maybe you would inform Parliament and the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U68	Mr. Woodland, this is where you're wrong. Even if a large hall decides to deal with it one week, it is in no way contrary to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure Act allows the large Chamber of the Riigikogu to make a second and third reading of the draft in one week. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U69	Thank you, Mr President. I have such a constructive proposal: please take the President's break of 30 minutes, call the Bureau, discuss the nature of this subject and consider the possibility of holding an extraordinary sitting around Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen will certainly be happy to meet and we can move on nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U70	Thank you for this proposal. But I'm not taking the manager's break. Okay. Mr Reinsalu and Mr Ligi, I would also like to ask your attention now, listen very carefully to an important fact that I have asked to be taken out of the Committee on Monetary Affairs session. Second reading to terminate the decision of consensual. The proposal for a third reading on 15 December is consensual. Therefore, all the political groups that took part in the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs were in agreement with this timetable. Period. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U71	Thank you. You said such very fundamental words that the European Union, it is like us. But I'd still say it should be a two-way street. Unfortunately, I see both the issue we are discussing here and the directives that would constantly want to take precedence over our constitution, and we are also seeing now that we are being pushed into haste, even though I have understood your answers, that even if we decided otherwise today, nothing would happen. However, I would ask you to consider this possibility that you take it out of the agenda on your own at the moment on behalf of the Bureau, because we would be able to show right now that the European Union, it is us, also the other way round, even if the European Union could also take into account the procedure and good practice of dealing with the law in our national parliament, and that the Commission, too, should be guided in particular in the future. I think that if you did, we would actually win out of it all, both us and Estonia and both us and the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U72	Thank you for your opinion. I understand that the grand hall of the Riigikogu is a place where there is certainly more transfer than from the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but I recall, however, that all the members present in the Committee on Monetary Affairs were in favour of these procedural decisions: the second reading will take place on Monday and the third reading will take place on Wednesday. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U73	Thank you. Since a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed that the Commission should meet exceptionally and that the President should take a break, since the chairman of the committee is not presently in the Chamber, as vice-chairman of the committee, I propose that you take a break so that the Committee on Monetary Affairs can meet exceptionally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U74	Thank you. I will not take this break because the chairman of the committee has this right. Okay. Let us vote through this point, but first we must call for a hearing. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by Martin Helme, member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu to remove the third item on the agenda of the Wednesday sitting, the third reading of the draft 480. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U75	33 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 50 against. The proposal was not supported and the third reading will take place on Wednesday. Now I have one item to pass on to you to complete the agenda. Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, has expressed his wish to make a political statement on energy prices at the session of the Riigikogu today. According to § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Home and Working Rules Act, the Chairman of the Riigikogu has added to the agenda of today's sitting and added the political statement of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Asa asa as the first item on the agenda. With this change, I'm gonna... Mr. Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U76	Yeah, thanks! In accordance with your instructions, I will now make my proposal on the agenda, because until now we have discussed the disagreements between the Bureau and the great hall has made a decision on this. To be honest, I do not know that you are now the President there, how to interpret this situation and what the meaning of this previous vote was. It was as if we only confirmed the Bureau's decision, and it was only the Bureau's competence to propose to a large Chamber, we did not vote anything on the agenda yet. I therefore have the proposal to remove the second item on the Wednesday agenda, that is 479 SE, and the third item, 480 SE, which is interrelated, as you said, and which should be dealt with together. As a result, it would not be possible for us to do two readings one week, my proposal is to remove these two items from the agenda of this working week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U77	Now, here's the thing about excluding from the agenda, as I suggested, is regulated in § 54. It states: "After the agenda is announced, the draft shall be excluded from the agenda at the request of the initiator, the drafter or the commission. " That's the story. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question of changing today's agenda. The honourable Minister of Economic Affairs is here today to make a political statement. I hope it's revolutionary, saves all our people and business from this terrible electric shock, the price shock. In this connection, however, I have a question: are the members of the Riigikogu also able to ask the minister questions and how many questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U79	Yeah, that's the point I would definitely have gotten to after we fixed the agenda. Of course, I will give you a full overview of how many questions you have and what will all happen with this point. Mr. Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U80	Thank you, Mr President. I am very concerned by looking at one maybe this year, but perhaps also at the most important decision of the Parliament of five years, which is to be lowered, there is such an impression, somehow, around the corner, outside of this House. This concerns the position of the Republic of Estonia in relation to the European Commission's climate package. Parliament's Bureau has directed this package to two committees in the field, after which it will arrive at the European Union Affairs Committee, and then the day after Santa Claus has been in Parliament, the Commission will adopt it with a financial impact and with a level of processing such as those positions from the government. I have to say that my subjective observation has these spineless positions. In my opinion, given the weight of the representatives of the people in these decisions, which have a major impact and for which we give a mandate to the government, and which, in the course of the negotiations, are expected to become mandatory positions for the Estonian state, we should discuss this in the Chamber. My question is whether we should not take the President's break, discuss it at the level of the body of elders, and find a format for Parliament's plenary to shape the positions concerning the European Union climate package and the European Commission's proposals and the position of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U81	Mr Reinsalu, this has nothing to do with the agenda of our big hall today, which we are about to vote on. However, you have the opinion that this has to do with the big floor agenda? Can we finish the procedural questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U82	No. Because it is the most directly related to the agenda of the large Chamber of Parliament. Because the issues that the large hall discusses are the result of Parliament's agenda, not the other way round. Things don't happen off the agenda. That's the whole question. My question to you as the chair of the sitting, the representative of the Riigikogu Board, is very simple and specific. I am not satisfied with the level of mandate we have for the routine positions of the Council of Europe, the Council of Ministers, coming from a government. It seems to me that the debate on this climate package, in view of the conflicting [positions] between interest organisations and the impact on society as a whole, on our entire economic environment and on all consumers, should be done in a plenary format. And in a situation where, at such a rapid pace, the door to the European Union Affairs Committee has been proposed on Friday to close on this issue, I have a legitimate concern, at least in my view, that this is not the level of mandate that we should find on such a crucial issue. I have a proposal that we find, precisely in the format of this House, a method of working which will enable this House to debate and shape its position.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U83	Mr Reinsalu, if you don't like the work of the Riigikogu, if you don't like it or otherwise feel wrong, then every place isn't the right place to press the microphone in and say something about it. What you have just said is not an appropriate way, a time or a place to say it. The rules of procedure of the Grand Hall are also agreed upon here. Let's try to stick to them. If you have a procedural question about the agenda of the large Chamber that we are discussing now, please. But about what you asked for or raised, please send us to the Board of the Riigikogu or to ELAK or otherwise signal it. Please do not use this bleacher and the opportunity to raise other questions here. We have 101 members who would otherwise also raise all kinds of questions. Anyway, we've got procedural questions going on here, and we're asking for all kinds of things that aren't procedural. Mr. Networker.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The President of the sitting has already largely said what I wanted to say, but in fact we have spent an hour now on the circa of procedural questions that are not, at least the last of them, absolutely related to today's agenda. I have serious concerns about how we can work our agenda this week. And since we have now recently received a statement from the Minister to hold a debate on electricity prices, a debate similar to that which was otherwise planned tomorrow as an important national issue, my suggestion is that if we hold this debate today and have saved up the time that has been seriously abused here, we could take the OTRK out of tomorrow's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U85	Yes, in this regard, too, I must say that if the Commission, or the initiator of the OTRK, wishes to do so, it is possible to do so, but I do not know whether Mr Reinsalu wants to do so. I'll ask Mr. Reinsalu. A microphone for Mr. Reinsalu, please. Do you want to take it out of tomorrow's agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U86	It's a serious proposal on Mr. Gridship.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U87	But please, no longer [talking]. No way, Mr. Reinsalu? No, you don't?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U88	After internal consideration, I am of the opinion that I do not. The answer is this: I think it is appropriate that this point remains in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U89	Got it. Let's keep going. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U90	Thank you. I wanted to support Mr Reinsalu. We are developing here, and I have noticed this in the past with regard to European Union affairs, just like a two-digit Parliament or a two-chamber Parliament. We have the Council of the European Union, which, without a large hall, takes decisions that are later mandatory for a large hall, and the large hall simply has to knock them out. This is not acceptable practice. Even in this case, when, on Friday after the end of this year's autumn sessions, the Committee on European Union Affairs meets and takes decisions, these decisions can be just for information and they must come to a large hall for approval. It is an urgent demand for the board to take this into account and to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U91	Thank you. Your ambassadors will also have the opportunity to say this at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs on Friday. Once again, you will see that this is what happens, Reinsalu draws an apology, for my emotional expression! And we're all starting to react to it. Excellent! Why don't we just try and stay on the agenda we have on here? Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has not been able to do his job for an hour, waiting here to tell you about the price of electricity, the price of energy. No, we are dealing with the fact that Reinsalu has a desire to talk about the European Union Affairs Commission, right? Mr Grünthal, do you also have an ELAK question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U92	Thank you. I have a completely different problem. You said here to Mr Reinsalu that this isn't the place to talk, and choose another job or something. I would remind you that according to the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu has a free mandate to say what he thinks is right. And if Mr Reinsalu, using his free mandate, wants to say something, then [your] accusations to a member of the Riigikogu are extremely evil. The second question is that there was some kind of message coming out of your mouth: if you don't like it here, then get out of here. I would point out that § 17 (2) of the same law says this: "A member of the Riigikogu cannot be obliged to resign from the Riigikogu. " Yes, I agree, you really didn't impose an obligation on him, but you gave him instructions to do so. So I am still of the opinion that a member of the Riigikogu has a free word, that he must be able to say it, that is in line with his free mandate. And the references to his so-called possible, I say straight out, getting the hell out of this house, are not absolutely appropriate to the President of the Riigikogu sitting, the Vice-Chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U93	[[Sighs.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U94	Thank you, Mr President. My question is about the adoption of the agenda and the procedure on it. My question is: why is Parliament's plenary method not provided for this week, how can Parliament's plenary debate and approve the positions expressed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Estonia regarding the European Commission's climate package? On this point, I am absolutely convinced that this mandate must come at Parliament's level, not at the Commission's level.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U95	Thank you. The answer will certainly be available to you at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Get over there and ask. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U96	I would like to thank you for the explanation relating to MP Urmas Reinsalu. The question is, yes, you have just quoted the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act here, but you have completely rejected the Second Act, the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, which gives the distinctions. I understand that I do not like it, but the question is also that if the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu clearly violates order, it is our duty to call him to order. Isn't that right? Or are there other ways to do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U97	Priit Onion, do you have a procedural question? Then it's the procedural question button right there. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U98	Thank you. You've been emotional around here for a while, you've noticed that somebody's got the saw going somewhere. I haven't heard that. However, I heard that the Net Vessel proposed to remove the first item of tomorrow's agenda. You gave the floor to the Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. The Ceder proposed that drafts 479 and 480 be excluded from the agenda, but you did not make such a proposal to the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I ask you to treat the various committees equally and propose to the Committee on Monetary Affairs so that they can exclude their drafts from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U99	No, no, the chairman of the committee can still speak on behalf of the committee. Since the Commission has not expressed its wish to withdraw it, I am relying on the fact that the Commission does not want to withdraw it. Reinsalu also expressed his wish that he did not want to take anything out, so there is no difference in the views of the committees in this respect. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U100	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. When Estonia once joined the ESM, the opposition was very sharp, not only here in Estonia, but also elsewhere. The topic went to constitutional courts, as well as to the Supreme Court in Estonia. And the Supreme Court stated that the decision-making power and mandate given by the Estonian state has thus been exhausted. If we want to give up further rights and increase the mandate of the European Union, then we must ask our own people for a mandate, a popular survey or a referendum. Now we are in a situation where we surrender even more rights, giving them away. It seems to me that this is a violation of the Constitution and the Supreme Court's judgment. Are we competent or justified here today to discuss and discuss the ESM issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U101	Thank you. I have understood that in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, all the members of the Commission and all the political groups have been familiar with it. As I said, there has been consensus among all members of the Commission on both the conclusion of the second reading and the referral to the third reading. Nor have I come to know that there could be another problem here. But we can, of course, specify all of this while we're at second reading. Mr. Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U102	Yes, I think this climate package debate is still on the agenda this week. If, on Friday, the Committee on European Union Affairs will finally shape and approve Estonia's positions, then they will be approved and we will no longer have the opportunity or reason to discuss it here at the level of the grand hall of the Riigikogu. In this sense, this is a very important question raised precisely this week. But I have a procedurally direct proposal from you, which Priit Sibul mentioned earlier. In the case of the proposal for a network vessel, you considered it necessary to refer the matter to the chairman of the committee concerned, what his position would be when he proposed that the draft be removed from the agenda. On the draft Committee on Monetary Affairs, where I proposed, you did not address the chairman of the committee. I have a request: in this large Chamber, we will also ask the chairman of the committee for a position. If [he] is not, it shall be the vice-chairman who represents the Commission. We will still treat the committees equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U103	Mr. Chairman of the Commission, we have the floor. So, Mr Korobeinik, are you going to say the Commission's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U104	Thank you. In the Commission, we had a rare consensus on this issue. Everyone unanimously supported two readings this week. In this sense, I trust the Members of the Commission and see no reason to reopen this debate, even though it has been going on for some time. I think the Commission's debate was much more constructive and we have the result.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U105	Thank you! Mr. Grünthal, can we finish the procedural questions now, or have you found a problem again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U106	I'd like to ask a procedural question. I'll make sure there's a peculiar duel. Members of the Riigikogu's hall ask questions I think are relevant and, in my opinion, procedural questions, and the answers to those questions that are regulated by § 74 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Rules Act, the President of the sitting immediately gives and resolves them. However, there are also situations where procedural questions are actually asked, but the President of the sitting says that this is not a procedural question. And sometimes the question is left unanswered. Why don't you explain which levers are there for Members in this Chamber and how the conduct of the President of the sitting can be influenced if it is clear and obvious that the President of the sitting will not resolve protests or answer the question for which he is actually obliged?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U107	This question, which you have now asked, was indeed nothing to do with the procedure for conducting the sitting, but I am nevertheless taking the liberty of commenting on it. The chair should ensure order, but the chairmen here have been polite and answered non-procedural questions. Well, I guess that's what the questioner and the respondent are all about, asking and answering. Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U108	Thank you. Based on your recent reply to your colleague, where you pointed out that the President of the sitting must ensure order in the Chamber, should this be interpreted as a hint that asking completely legitimate procedural questions in the Chamber is a disorder that the President of the sitting must prevent or prevent, inter alia, by not answering these questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U109	Thank you. No. No further procedural questions... Mr. Grünthal, the ninth procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U110	Thank you, Mr President. If you remember, before Reuben Kaalepit, I asked how the levers could be used to summon the President of the sitting. That's why you said something completely different, and you didn't answer my question. I would now still like to know how Members of Parliament can, if there is any doubt about the activities of the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu, put pressure on him or call him to order. Give me some advice right now, please! Don't say anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U111	Thank you. It is regulated by the Home and Working Procedures Act. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U112	Yeah. I understand, of course, that you, or anyone in this hall who is currently on the remote, are being asked simpler questions or more complex questions, as well as questions that are perhaps more difficult to understand or understand at a certain point. But indeed, to one of Kalle Grünthal's long questions, maybe you're so busy with your thoughts that you couldn't follow it, you didn't answer anything at all, politely or rudely. You just took Priit Onion's question. So I'm going to make such a procedural remark that sometimes I could at least say yes, I heard you, or just say that I have nothing to answer about it, but it's just not appropriate to ignore the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U113	Thank you! I listened to you very carefully. Mr. Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U114	Thank you, Mr President. It was my question, after all, how can the President be called to order? I thank you, we have also had a positive shift in this direction, in your response. You indicated that this was laid down in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Okay. We have a step towards positivity, we know the law. Please state specifically the paragraph and paragraph that governs the subject on which I asked that it should not remain abstractly in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U115	Mr Grünthal, you have asked ten procedural questions today, none of which have been about the procedure for conducting the sitting. On the basis of paragraph 74, we created an opportunity to press the "Hand" button on the remote control, which gives the indication that you want to ask a procedural question that is not regulated at all in the Riigikogu's domestic and operational rules, as § 74 regulates the right of a member of the Riigikogu to ask a question about the procedure for conducting a hearing. This is your chance. You haven't taken this opportunity. You have taken the opportunity to express your opinion and asked a number of questions that are not related to the procedure for conducting the sitting. The chair has taken the liberty of answering your questions, some longer, some shorter. The President of the sitting should have answered each of your questions strictly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that this is not a procedural matter or that it is not about the procedure for conducting the sitting. I hope this explanation was clear and long enough. Mr. Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U116	Thank you, Mr President. I so much appreciate all kinds of procedure and, no matter what, there's a desire to ask for something by looking at what's going on in the hall. To say please, if you are asked a procedural question, does this mean that the answer must also be procedural? Who has this competence to assess whether it is procedural or not, because the members of the Riigikogu must have the right to refute your statements on the ground that your answers are not procedural or that the procedure does not provide for it. And where's our country of procedure if there's no such simple thing in the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U117	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! I certainly agree that procedure procedures can be recorded in procedures. But I don't support it. I support the fact that the members of the Riigikogu also follow our Rules of Procedure Act and respect this large hall and respect the people of Estonia who often look at it here. I wouldn't rule out some of them watching today. Consequently, in fact, the members of the Riigikogu, everyone, really have a responsibility for what the microphone says there or here. Consequently, indeed, the rules of procedure under which we behave in the Riigikogu have changed dramatically during my modest 14-year practice with its composition. We are not asking these questions concerning the conduct of the sitting, but we are constantly expressing our opinion by saying that this is a procedural issue. As I said at the beginning in answering your question, I do not support the inclusion of procedures in procedure procedures. Mr. Weightep.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U118	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question about the procedure for conducting the hearing. If during the course of the sitting the members of the Riigikogu have procedural questions and if they ask the same procedural questions, do they also express their opinion, from your point of view, there are two completely mutually exclusive aspects of asking a procedural question and publishing their opinion, or may there be overlaps and common elements between them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U119	Mr. Weightep! We're not here for the debate contest. If we were in a debate contest, we could debate and debate with you. We are currently trying to implement the Riigikogu sitting. Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs would like to come and talk about energy prices. Of course, if a member of the Riigikogu has a question that is substantive and concerns the procedure for conducting a hearing, it is best for him to present it specifically, without a longer introduction. If a monologue is desired, the microphone shall be free on Monday after the closing of the meeting [the order of business]. In other cases, I strongly recommend that all of us respect and respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Grünthal, question 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U120	Thank you, Mr Pevkur, President of the sitting. Look, here we are with these procedural questions. I asked you on what grounds and how it would be possible to call the President of the sitting, and you said that under our Rules of Procedure. When I asked specifically what paragraph and what point is that, I got an epistle like a schoolboy late for school instead of you answering that particular question. That's not how it works, I guess.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U121	Thank you for your opinion. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U122	Thank you. Good manager! Does the procedure also allow respect for those members of the Riigikogu who would like to start working and would also like to show their constituents, because it is not up to us to choose that there is also a television broadcast and its name is energy prices, that we were actually chosen here for something other than to have our colleagues looking at their belly button and talking about procedures. Actually, we could get to work. Will our honor and dignity be protected by procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U123	Thank you, Mr. Ligi! The Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu does not allow the President of the sitting to close such procedural matters. In the course of the negotiations, it is possible for the President of the sitting to say to the large Chamber that we have dealt adequately with the item and to close the debate on the matter. For procedural questions, it is a question of the conscience of each member of the Riigikogu, how many questions he asks, and the Head of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to answer these questions briefly. However, unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for any other possibility. In the new Rules of Procedure Act, to which Mr Kokk referred here, we have offered this opportunity that, even in procedural matters, a large hall can say that it is enough, we will go to the substantive work. However, until the new Rules of Procedure have been adopted, I, as the chair of the sitting, must continue to follow the Rules of Procedure that we have now. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U124	Thank you! As I recall or, as far as I know, the procedure for conducting the sitting should concern all parties in the same way. I remember very well that during the previous government, the Reform Party was the one who was very active in obstructing work. If you now rely on your words and claim that this drastic, let's say, custom has come with this composition, then I recall that the Reform Party was the one who brought the posters into this hall and the Social Democrats brought in the confederation cannons. Let us do this, however, so that all of us should have the same application of these principles and rules of procedure for the implementation of the sitting, not so selectively by political party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U125	The principles of implementing the session apply to the entire Riigikogu. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U126	I would now get out of these disputes and ask a question about the independence of the President of the Riigikogu. As we know, self-isolation should be ten days, but right now he's saying he's staying five days. Is there any way he's got it like the people's mouth says I'm half-pregnant? Or, in his case, how does this corona manifest itself so that he doesn't need to be in isolation for ten days? Isn't this his attempt to evade his duties because he knew we were going to have procedural disputes today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U127	Thank you. I am convinced that the President of the Riigikogu would have been happy to be here and answered both Mr Grünthal and your questions. Absolutely. So there is no doubt about this; the Chairman of the Riigikogu knows and feels his responsibility. No further questions. I shall put to the vote... I'm sorry! We can't put it to the vote until we have to call people back to the hall. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to put to the vote the approval of the agenda for the 11th working week of the VI session. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U128	With the result of 50 and against 32 the agenda has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U129	Our first item today is the political statement by Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Asa, on energy prices. But before the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure comes to the remote, I will show you how we will deal with this item. First, the Minister's political statement is up to ten minutes, then every member of the Riigikogu has one oral question and during the negotiations, the representatives of the political groups have the right to speak. Please, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas! You're welcome to the chair. Mr. Seedr has another procedural question. But you can come to the remote by now. I'll take the Seeder procedural question and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U130	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural proposal for the processing of this item that we are currently dealing with. Since this statement has come unexpectedly to all of us, it also came unexpectedly to the Bureau, because the Bureau had not put this statement on the agenda prepared by us and we voted on it now, we have also not been able to discuss and shape positions on behalf of the political groups. It is very difficult to speak on behalf of the political groups. We don't even know the subject right now. We assume it's electricity, but maybe it's a public transport cut, for example. We don't know what the report's gonna be on. When processing the agenda and processing this point, there should be an opportunity for all members of the Riigikogu to participate in the negotiations, so we can each express our views in this Chamber. And I suppose the question is very important when the Minister comes with a political statement, it is not a secondary or a third-rate issue. So my suggestion is that all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to participate in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U131	Thank you. We will stick to this procedure, which we have agreed here, i.e. one oral question and representatives of the political groups. This follows from Paragraph 69 (5). Mr. Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U132	Yes, thank you! I have a question. Has the board discussed this? You said you had an appointment. Did the board share a common position or has the chairman of the Riigikogu agreed with the minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U133	Thank you. As I have pointed out, in the Rules of Procedure, we have nicely regulated and § 155 (5) of the Rules of Procedure Act, to be precise, tells us this: 'After submitting a statement, a report or an overview and answering questions, negotiations will be opened with representatives of the political groups speaking. " Have we now exhausted the procedural questions, Mr. Ceder? Looks like we are. Please, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The biggest energy crisis in the century has been going on for a short time, but it has already had a painful impact on the livelihood and daily life of most Estonian people. The energy bills for November have already reached families and businesses and the reality is harsh. If we don't do something together, monthly price shocks will stay with us. Today we are talking mostly about monthly utilities, but the time is not far from when the price increase will reach food stores in the form of crisper prices, the transport sector and will have a direct impact on jobs. You have probably also received news that Estonia's largest energy consumer, Estonian Cell, a wooden mass manufacturer, stopped his work for a day because of extreme prices. The Kunda company paid EUR 1.5 million more than usual for electricity and gas in November. They have had more than five million more energy bills in recent months. I stress: EUR 5 million. In the production value chain, the Lääne-Virumaa company employs nearly 500 people. You can only imagine what a socio-economic disaster would result if production stopped. I spoke to Siri Bay, the leader of Estonian Cell today, and they are very, very concerned. I call for an end to the party's campaign of violence and for the focus to be placed on supporting our people. I believe we agree: alongside the development of long-term solutions, we must act in parallel with the implementation of temporary measures. We still have a cold winter period ahead of us, and the country must give people the confidence that once utility bills are paid, there will be no emptiness in the wallet. It is not a normal situation for companies to take steps in the organisation of work to avoid peaks on the stock market. This is possible in many cases, in many cases not. In the interview, Oleg Gross, a large company, recently said that there is an extremely short-sighted view that the free market economy must not be interfered with or compensated for when electricity is expensive. The state collects many times more as VAT and CO2 revenues, but people are in a difficult situation. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The government has adopted a number of support measures. We stopped the increase in excise duty on electricity, diesel, special fuel, natural gas and LPG used as heating fuel, twice reduced the network fee and decided to pay compensation for the increase in prices to the low-income people. The partial energy price compensation web application is scheduled to start next week. But it's not all enough. There is certainly a need to increase the number of people we help when we are in trouble, but there is also a need for comprehensive measures, whether VAT cuts or ceilings for stock market prices. However, the measures must be implemented together and together, because only in this way will they be effective. I would also like to talk here about what might be our longer-term solutions or what we have done to ensure that we have longer solutions. We are of this opinion, the Centre Party is of the opinion that greater use of renewable energy must be supported, but this must not lead to a deterioration in the livelihood of our people, and it is unreasonable to abandon the current ones before new capacities are introduced. I think one of the most important energy policy decisions was made in 2019, when the then Government of the Republic decided to give Eesti Energia the task of maintaining 1000 megawatts as a reserve of energy production managed in Estonia. As far as renewable energy is concerned, as a decision to acquire new radars, we have opened up opportunities for the development of wind farms to 60% of Estonia's land. A reduction in green energy to 450 gigawatts has been announced, with a reduction of 650 gigawatts being added. It has also been decided that the state as a whole should be a consumer of green energy. The total power is 100 gigawatts. We call on all municipalities to join it, it could add at least 100 gigawatts more, and that would be certainty for renewable energy producers. In addition, there is a law on local benefits that also benefits those in whose vicinity the wind farms are located. The Riigikogu is also under the procedure of the Energy Market Act, which provides an opportunity to conclude even longer-term and thus more favourable direct contracts. These decisions concern renewable energy production, but we also need to find a long-term solution to managed energy. The National Nuclear Energy Working Group, set up by the Government, will analyse the possibilities for the deployment of nuclear energy in Estonia, with the help of external experts. The original deadline for the analysis is autumn 2022, but in the developed situation, ways could be found to accelerate this process. In summary, perhaps: we need such long-term measures that are being dealt with, but we also need urgent decisions on short-term measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U135	Minister, you also have questions from members of the Riigikogu. Urmas Reinsalu begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, thank you for a very concrete package of proposals on how to tackle the energy crisis. I have a very specific question concerning the Fatherland's proposal to reform the electricity market, to introduce electricity as a universal service for small consumers and to allow people to buy electricity from a dominant energy producer on an over-the-counter basis. The Director of the Competition Authority said today and confirmed that this price level, if CO2 quotas were also reimbursed in accordance with the provision allowing for the European Union Electricity Directive, would be below EUR 50 megawatt-hour, the estimated price level. Minister for Economic Affairs, will you support this proposal and support it in the government, facing the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U137	Thank you. I support all the proposals that contribute to improving people's livelihoods. This proposal you have made is one option. Here, it is undoubtedly necessary to consider its legal aspects as to whether and how this possibility can be implemented. But in my speech I also said that there should be a way to set the price cap on the stock market.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U138	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U139	Minister, thank you very much. Right now, they're trying to cure the consequences, but there's less to be said about the causes. This redistribution and the support system will not bring us back to normal electricity prices if we want to attract investment here, preserve Estonian Cell and maintain jobs. You know that well enough. But I ask whether, among the proposals, a bolder and root-cause solution emerged, such as the principle of leaving the power exchange. Were there any mention that if the measures were not working, we would at some point be prepared to perform this surgical procedure if nothing else worked out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U140	Thank you. I consider urgent measures, i.e. tax measures, subsidies, to be important at the moment. As for the exit from the stock market, for those who want to continue to be on the stock market, I think this could be an opportunity. But there should certainly be an alternative to those who do not want to be on the stock market. Fixed-price electricity packages are indeed an alternative. These packages are used by quite a large part of the Estonian population, and there has been little price increase in these packages. So there is this possibility, too, that we can continue with these packages.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U141	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to you, I got the impression from your presentation that the situation was bad and that long-term plans were needed. Very right, and such thoughts must be greatly appreciated. But lately, I have this feeling that [I don't know] whether our country has any longer-term plans. If you read in the paper that Auvere's repair is planned in the middle of winter, is it in keeping with any plans or are decisions taken the way someone is thinking about it, just living in today's day?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U143	Thank you. When speaking of Auvere's problems, it must certainly be stressed that this was not a planned repair, but an accident in Auvere. Unfortunately, with Auvere, we have this problem that there are very many accidents due to the technology there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U144	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U145	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs! I'm a little disappointed. I was hoping you would have a backbone and you would announce before the Riigikogu that you no longer wish to participate in this pathetic government. But the question now is the price of electricity, which was actually beginning to rise from spring. Did the government still lack competence or willingness to react in time? Or was there another reason for this frozen state of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U146	Thank you. As I said, the government has responded. And in the same situation as the Estonian Government, there is, in fact, the governments of all the countries of Europe, if not to say so. The governments of countries that are more prosperous than us have also taken action. For example, Norway recently announced that they would implement support measures for their consumers. This actually shows that this situation is one across Europe, when we are only talking about Europe, it is all over Europe. And I think that, like the governments of other countries, we must also take action.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U147	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U148	Thank you. Good Minister of Energy! You have often been like the Minister of Finance in your speeches here, and so far you have come up with only the idea of reducing VAT. But since you had such authoritative sources as Estonian Cell and, secondly, Oleg Gross, tell me how much and in what way a VAT reduction helps an entrepreneur. [[Javier Aas answers something.]] Yes, please describe how he does it, then I will be able to comment later on whether you are right.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U149	Thank you. One of the support measures by the operators for the reduction of network charges for all was that they would also help the operators. There is no doubt that reducing VAT will not help the company so much, but it will certainly help because VAT is a part of the tax, and it will undoubtedly help to contain inflation, in which it will certainly have an impact. In addition, it is an easy-to-implemented measure. We all know that receiving subsidies, its very large expansion, is a good measure, but it is problematic in this sense that it is demanding a great deal of work to pay out the grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U150	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U151	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. From the European Commission's document to the European Council, which is now taking place and where the Prime Minister is present, one can clearly read from the fourth division, the energy price breakdown, that the urgent recommendation of the European Energy Market Regulators Agency is only to use price relief in the crisis caused by high energy prices and to provide it in a targeted way, i.e. through social benefits for the poorest households. This is precisely the point that Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has been repeating for a long time, and the government refuses to discuss any other options at all. Also from your long and thorough presentation, we have heard nothing fundamental except that you personally and the Centre Party might do something different. In this light, how can you offer serious life-changing proposals to us here and to the entire Estonian people, which could actually alleviate this situation if there is nothing more than social benefits from Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U152	Thank you. My message is that the measures must be implemented in a complex way, then they will help. We can say that the proportion of each measure is about 10%. If there are several of these measures, it will accumulate 10%. And if it totals 20%, 30% or 35%, then it's actually already helping people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U153	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand that the main message of your political statement was that you called for political party-wide consensus. I think that consensus actually exists in this Chamber. Steps must be taken to help us get out of this energy shock because it is a huge blow to our economy. But I am still asking you a very specific question. You mentioned wind farms, radars, regulated prices and other instruments that have been dealt with in such a political consensus. But what about Toots' wind farm? We know that Eesti Energia has bought it for 52 million euros from the state. We know it's been planned ten years ago. We know that windmills can be built there. But the state companies are judging each other. I haven't heard anything happen to this thing either. Can you comment on that in a few words?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U155	Thank you. Indeed, it is true that legal proceedings are pending there. There have been several legal proceedings and there is still one in progress. The question is not so much that two state-owned companies are in court, but the question is, in fact, that the state-owned company is in court with the market regulator, who must assess whether the Tootsi wind farm will in future receive support under the old scheme or under the new scheme. The regulator has decided that this should be based on a new scheme, i.e. not fixed support for 12 years, but as much support as possible for less supply. The state company Eesti Energia is of the opinion that since this development began so long ago, it has stopped because of litigation and litigation. They would therefore also have a legitimate expectation of obtaining the first, i.e. the aid scheme in force in the past. I add so much that Eesti Energia is a company whose general meeting is not the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but is the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U156	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You support the reduction of VAT, unlike the government of which you are a member. One of the rhetoric of the government, why it does not support it, is that it also helps the rich. At the beginning it was rich at EUR 673; last week we heard that it could be raised a little bit and reached EUR 1000 or 1200. Here's actually my question to you. If you agree to a reduction in VAT, but the government does not and still goes down the road that the rich cannot be supported, what would be your monthly income level from which a person can be considered rich? And what could the government have on this level?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U158	Thank you. Here you had two measures together. One is the VAT side, which indeed our party has considered appropriate to support, so that it applies uniformly to everyone, and the other is the support for people on low incomes, which is paid on a case-by-case basis in particular. At present, this level has been agreed at EUR 672 per first household member. The government has agreed that this limit will be raised either to the median wage or, on our proposal, to the average wage, the recipients would then be entitled to receive support. So these are two different kinds of support. But really, it would be difficult to imagine a situation where almost half of Estonian people would be entitled to receive support for electricity prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U159	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U161	I'm sorry for a second. Mr. Reinsalu and Mr. Ligi, your buzzing alone is going to come out here awfully hard. Mr. Ligi! May I ask you to speak to Mr. Reinsalu outside... [[Something's been answered in the hall.]] I understand you have a lot to talk about, especially the cost of energy and everything else. But it's really hard to run this debate from here, and it's even harder to listen when you're always buzzing there. All right, Mr. Woodland. Wait a minute. Microphone. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U162	Minister, thank you very much. Well, I'm somewhat disappointed, because from your report I really expected something like this to explode, but it turned out to be kind of sloganful. That's a shame. It's very interesting to have a picture, if you look out the window right now, you'd see that Tallinn is blind. It looks a little bit like this picture when we look at North Korea and South Korea up there is darkness, below is light. We have reached this economic stagnation, where half the people are sent to beg for the door of local governments. It's actually totally drastic ugly. I thought that you were now proposing proposals that would really affect this situation, which would reduce the stagnation that would reduce the public's labour poverty and there are shocking proposals. But I didn't hear them. I just didn't hear them. I do not see whether there would be any kind of measures that would really quickly reduce labour poverty and quickly solve the problem of electricity prices. There aren't any. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] That's too bad. Would you like to guess?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U163	Thank you. As I said, no measure in isolation is certainly not the kind that solves this situation. These measures must be implemented together, complexly, it is value added tax, it is a grant, it is a ceiling for the stock exchange price or some other solution for cutting off the peaks of the stock exchange price, such as network charges or excise duties. These are measures that must be taken together, they will have an impact, and they will not have such an effect if they are implemented one by one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U164	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I have two questions, one is very specific and the other is of a more general nature, but still very important. We all understand that there are a number of factors in the current high electricity prices: cold, no wind, maintenance of power plants, faults and common market rules, but also the production and supply capacity of our national producer. We have, as far as I know, fixed arrangements to maintain the production capacity of Eesti Energia. As far as you know, has the public undertaking complied with these agreements? If not, why? And more generally, I ask how we help our entrepreneurs, including Estonian Cell and other producers. What are these concrete operational measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U166	Thank you. First of all, of the 1000 megawatts that were supposed to be, or which were placed as the owner's expectations as an obligation to keep Eesti Energia up. As a rule, it has been done. Auvere's emergency stop is less than 1,000 megawatts of their capabilities, so at the moment that Auvere doesn't work, it's less than 1,000 megawatts of Auvere's share is so high. What would help businesses? First of all, network charges were a measure that worked for all companies. Excise duties are a measure that works for companies. And, as I said, to a certain extent, VAT is also what helps businesses. It would certainly be reasonable, at least for the residents, to apply a higher level of stock exchange prices, above which the price should be compensated, but why not also for businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U167	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U168	Thank you, Minister. In your five-minute statement, you described the situation, but no effective and effective solution was proposed. When you answered the questions, I did not understand your position on the provision of the universal service over the counter as a price coordinated with the Competition Authority. Maybe you'll rethink your position. And secondly, the same benefit for people is only a kind of relief and it is an acute issue. Tell me, when and how will a person receive this benefit or benefit? October is gone, November is gone, December is gone, it is heard that some municipalities are planning to start accepting applications sometime next year. Do people pay six months' electricity bills for money they don't have, and then one day in springtime, they get that compensation? Or what's the mechanism going to look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U169	Thank you. As I said, this application should be ready next week. January, the beginning of next year will be the time when you can start submitting statements of support. And this support will also be granted retroactively, so that if the application has gone into operation afterwards, it does not mean that people will not receive money for previous months. As far as your proposal for direct contracts for the residents is concerned, as I said, it is certainly worth considering. There is a need to review the legal aspects of whether or not the funds can be used, whether or not the CO2 funds can be used for this, as the CO2 funds bear a statement that this money can only be used to compensate for the low-insured residents [increase in cost of living]. Who's the group that gets these direct contracts? It depends very much on whether these funds can be used at all or whether they cannot be used. I understand that your proposal is an alternative to today's situation where fixed-price contracts can be concluded. Your proposal is that it would be cheaper to compensate for the share of CO2 in this agreement. But this is precisely the place that needs to be legally reviewed as to whether or not CO2 resources are suitable for this. Or you have to find some other source of funding if you apply it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U170	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for their explanations. And thank you for talking about the planned steps to reduce electricity prices. As we know, the stock market package is partly the result of the surge in electricity prices. My question is very practical. What do you suggest to those who currently have a stock market package?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U172	Thank you. I have a stock market package, too. I'm in the stock market because I installed solar panels, and as a power manufacturer, I can only be in the stock market package. In this sense, I dare share my experience. During the summer, the panels were very effective, helping very well. Now, the panels are as good as they don't work, and I feel all the non-joy that comes with this package right now from the stock market package. But for all those who have a stock market package, I strongly suggest that you consider a fixed-price contract. There is no doubt that this is a risk, because the fixed price is certainly cheaper now than the stock exchange package, but if the stock exchange price falls in the summer, then again there may be a situation where the stock exchange price is significantly lower than the fixed price package. As energy experts have said, this price volatility may be quite high in the short term, and this in turn may mean that at some point those who are now abandoning the stock market because of the high price and switching to the fixed price [will lose]. At present, the fixed price that can be reached is 140 euros per megawatt, maybe a small plus even that, but let's say 140 euros. Nor is it certain that our electricity exchange price may again not be significantly lower than EUR 140 per megawatt in the summer, at least at some point. But if someone wants to guarantee themselves against very high peaks, then, of course, a fixed-price package is what helps.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U173	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U174	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Have you discussed in the government an analogous scheme, as is the case in Norway, to compensate consumers for these peak prices for a period of time until some better solutions or better measures are found to help people out of this distress?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U175	Thank you. No, no such package was discussed with Norway. However, I have proposed that there should be compensation from some stock market price onwards. The idea would be to take away the fear of such extremely high prices from consumers. I offered it when it was known that there would be prices like EUR 1000 megawatts. This, too, is one way indeed: to take away the fear of very high prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U176	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The right thing is that a whole set of measures is needed to remedy the situation, but this part of the measures that you listed, which has such a longer-term and, in fact, more weighty effect, remained sparse. In particular, I would like to highlight one or one aspect of the operation of the Nord Pool power exchange. You mentioned price caps, but what instruments, mechanisms, levers or options are there to intervene at all, and what instruments, measures, as a result of your office, do you intend to implement this maximum, lower the price, and also solve the problem that several countries are restricting their capacities, contrary to exchange rules when placing electricity capacities on the market, Norway and Sweden, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U178	Time, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U179	Especially in a situation where Estonia has sold its stake...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U180	Time, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U181	...in this stock market.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U182	Thank you. Yes, indeed, just like the beginning of the corona crisis, the start of the energy crisis has highlighted places where countries have taken restrictive measures. This is very regrettable because we are operating and operating in the same market. Indeed, it has been a case where Sweden and Norway began to restrict cross-border trade in electricity, with the result that the price started to change accordingly. It is true that the cut-off of trade between them probably could not have affected Estonia's price very much, because from Sweden to Finland this transmission capacity was already on the border. So even if Sweden had gone more energy than that corner, electricity, it would probably not have just moved forward from Sweden, as the transmission capacity between Sweden and Finland was already at maximum, there would not have been more. Really, it's happened. As I said, I have proposed as a measure to compensate for these peak prices in order to agree on an exchange price ceiling, from which onwards there is a situation where the consumer does not pay more, that price will be compensated. We've been through this with Elering. It is possible to withdraw prices on an hourly basis and to compensate on an hourly basis if the price is higher than the agreed limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U183	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Can you read and explain all the reasons that currently prevent Estonia from exiting the CO2 quota system? Are these reasons so important that they outweigh the livelihood of the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U185	As far as I know, it is not possible to leave the CO2 quota system. However, I do agree that this quota system should be amended, updated and improved. I have also proposed this. I am also aware that we are not the only country in the European Union that thinks in this direction that this quota trade should be changed and improved. Poland has taken the same view, the Czech Republic has expressed its support and there are other countries. Indeed, the current quota trading system does not work as it was built, or rather does not work as part of this system, which should stabilise the quota price in the event of very steep increases. This mechanism is actually built into the quota trading system, it is there, but unfortunately it is in a form that does not help us because it simply does not work. This system should be restructured in such a way that it really works. As an example, Estonia has reduced its CO2 emissions by 72% if we take 1995 and 2020. That is 72%, at most in the European Union. And the reduction took place in years when the quota price was EUR 25 per megawatt. Perhaps this price was already one that led to action towards greener energy. There is no reason that the quota price should be EUR 80-90 or even more per megawatt. This price simply shows that there is a shortage of energy. If there is a shortage of energy, energy will be produced regardless of what the price of the quota is. This is the current situation and this situation is not normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U186	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U187	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Well, they're the kind of great intellectual intelligence you're giving us here. I understand, of course, that the coalition has set you up here as a lightning rod right now to show the public that we are still doing something and that the concern of the people matters to us. But in reality, of course, I understand that Euro fidelity still prevails. Still, it's a thawing mentality that we can't really do anything. Well, let's cut some taxes, and we'll pay some subsidies, but there's not much we can do. But I'm telling you, it is. It is necessary to take radical steps to leave the stock exchange, to leave the CO2 trade, to withdraw certain taxes at all, at least temporarily. If we do that, we're gonna get this electricity down very quickly. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I think it is the Estonian people that we need to think about, not the Euro bureaucrats. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U188	Thank you. I agree with you on the fact that we have to take different measures to bring down energy prices. Disengagement from the stock market? Well, yeah. For many years there was a situation where the stock exchange guaranteed a very good price. I do not think that this could be the measure that should certainly be accepted. But that the various measures must be implemented as a package, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U189	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U190	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the first quarter of 2020, when there was an emergency situation and many companies were closed to avoid the spread of the corona, the tax authorities promised that if taxes cannot be paid in a cash-flow manner on time, they would not be used to calculate interest. Now that a lot of people have high electricity bills, they're pretty unexpected. Christmas is coming and it is known that compensation for electricity bills will not be dealt with quickly enough. Could it be considered that late payment of invoices does not take into account late payment of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U191	Thank you. It's a question for every electricity seller individually. But Estonia's largest electricity seller, Eesti Energia, has confirmed that they will delay electricity bills if there is a need and a reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U192	Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question is driven by a recent voter's letter. As is well known, until 1 May 2015, specially labelled diesel fuel was allowed to be used for, among other things, the heating of private homes and apartments. The price of this fuel has also increased significantly. Have you considered, among other measures, allowing the re-use of specially labelled diesel fuel for space heating?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U194	Thank you. No, no such proposal has been made. But if this proposal has already been made in this Chamber, then it must also be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U195	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It was really very amazing to hear that you came to tell us that you do not really have a special plan, that things that were going on years ago, but it is very important to deal with the increased energy prices now. It is just as important to deal with what will happen in the future, because energy prices will be more expensive, inflation will increase, and that means that people will actually be considerably poorer by spring than they were this autumn. I ask what is your and the Government of the Republic's plan to deal with this issue, which will now follow it all, in a situation where, in fact, people's incomes, wages, which should rise this year and next year, inflation will eat up and people will be poorer. How do we solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U197	Thank you. So far, there is still a situation where wage growth has been faster than inflation. But once again: indeed, subsidies are necessary and certainly subsidies must be further addressed and those people who need the most help must be helped, I fully agree with that. On the other hand, certainly, we are all affected by inflation, all of us are affected by the prices of goods, and therefore, as one measure, I consider it very important also to have regard to VAT, because it would help everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U198	Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister! I'm gonna ask you the other way around. Can you tell me how much electricity represents at all the costs of the average household consumer and how much does it represent the costs of the average company? So we have that proportion in the place that we're talking about and what growth we're talking about on the cost side right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U200	Thank you. In the case of electricity, I think it is almost impossible to talk about the average. I gave an example of Estonian Cell, which has the highest energy consumption, and its largest share of costs is energy. There are certainly companies that are significantly less affected by the increase in electricity prices, so it is very difficult to bring such an average out here. Similarly, this is difficult for domestic consumers. There is one situation in an apartment building and a completely different situation in a private house where perhaps even precisely freshly installed electric heating or air heat pump, land, air or water heat pump. So these situations are so different and it really doesn't make sense to bring out this average here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U201	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You came to this hall today with a political statement on energy prices. I'll listen and listen, and then when it's over, I'll go right here to the lobby. Steps up to me with one member of the government department, quite seriously right now, and tells me that completely empty talk, nonsense, look behind the contents of the matter like Toots with a knife-tip of raisins in the bread. It was a story of a member of your own government coalition. Actually, it's serious, because look at how many questions you've been asked. Your message, your political statement, is empty talk and nothing to say. Why didn't you make such a statement that Aunt Helme of Laupa's village, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U203	Thank you. Everyone decides how empty or unempty it was. I have brought to you what opportunities are available to speed up the reduction in electricity prices and what opportunities are available for longer-term action.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U204	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You spoke at length of your withdrawal from the CO2 quota system that this is neither reasonable nor possible. But it was even possible to step out of the Soviet Union. I believe it is possible to withdraw from other systems that are harmful to the Estonian state. But here's the question. Auvere Station and transfer lines were planned for the toughest time. Whether these things were also coordinated with the Minister or with another member of the government, or whether it is the rhetorical performance of the Prime Minister, somewhere in the press, that the higher the price of electricity, the sooner we reach the green turning goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U206	Thank you. Once again, the repair of Auvere Station was not planned, it was an emergency stop, it was a serious accident. Nobody planned this. The only planned repair in the Baltic countries was in Lithuania, because Lithuania did not expect the beginning of December to be so cold. It was rather assumed that the cold would come in January-February, and therefore in Lithuania the repair of one of the stations was planned at the beginning of December. In the case of our Auvere station, and also in the case of the Latvian station, this was an emergency stop.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U207	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I join the criticisms of people or members of the Riigikogu who say that the political statement did not actually contain a statement. You stated what we already knew and said that a long-term plan was needed. Well, that's good. I am also amazed at your view that there is nothing to prevent us from taking applications from people without an information system right now. But we can well imagine that this means manual work for these hundreds of officials in local governments afterwards. So they8 leave their application to be accepted there in January and people at Christmas without the necessary resources. But the question is, how do you feel about the position that the Prime Minister expressed last week that people should start turning to energy companies for billing? As far as you know, the hundreds and thousands of officials or employees who are going to process them are now coming to work in energy companies, as you thought, half of Estonia's population is experiencing a problem with electric billing applications? Or what about it anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U209	Thank you. I can tell you that Eesti Energia has already implemented additional labour force and additional working time, even on weekends they respond to calls and give advice to people. Eesti Energia has also confirmed that they are ready to schedule electricity bills if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U210	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U211	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Dear Minister, Certainly, those who are really risking energy poverty at the moment must be helped in full agreement with this. But even more important in the long term, it is precisely to increase its productive capacity. You said yourself there's a shortage of energy. Some keywords: local, diffused small production, recording technologies, sales network, smart consumption. How can we help housing associations so that all these things are supported by the government so that housing associations want to think about these issues when renovating the house? There is no reason why every building management company could not participate in producing energy, using modern storage technologies, and continuing to sell energy into the network, just when it is useful to do so and thereby manage our consumption more intelligently? What are the plans for the longer term?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U212	Thank you. We have taken legislative steps to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to participate in the market. It has already been processed in the Riigikogu. So there's a whole lot of legal possibilities for that. There are also possibilities for renovating apartment buildings; 360 million more will be needed from the new period to renovate buildings and find smart solutions for storing or producing energy. But from this crisis, I think we should definitely learn that this crisis struck us, however, at a time when there was a very cold, still air, practically no opportunities for alternative electricity production. There is also a lack of hydropower production capacity in Scandinavia, which is also green energy. So the need for us to also have manageable capacity and enough in the whole region will certainly not go away.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U213	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U214	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. I too found your political statement largely incomprehensible or quite incomprehensible. And in your answers to the questions, you have given an example of the fact that you could lower the value added tax on electricity, but you do not have such an agreement in the government. As a representative of the government, you come before us, you make a statement and you say that the situation is bad, but you do not really offer people solutions. For example, I have not heard of any solution that should be done by people who are just beyond the limits of their government's ability to cope. These are, for example, teachers, cultural workers, police, rescuers and social welfare people maybe just under it. The situation of these people has also become much worse. They were not given a salary increase this year, provided that the salary does not increase. The average wage increased by 7% and is likely to grow by 7% next year. All of their wage increases were below the two-year projected wage growth. Now you come and you tell me that the situation is bad, the situation is complicated, but you really don't have any solutions. Do you have any solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U215	Thank you. These are the solutions I was talking about, what is possible and what I very much hope is that the government will come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U216	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U217	Thank you. Dear Minister, I also have to admit, I didn't really understand why you came here today. Although I thought the last sentence was that because the Reform Party does not want to help the people of Estonia, you simply resign to make the decisions you want in the next government. Now we're looking, in September, the government reports that now the underprivileged are getting money from the parishes. It turns out in November that there is no such law, there will be a Committee on Monetary Affairs, and in December it turns out that there is no such program, either, listen to your friends, for several months, maybe in January we can. The price of the CO2 quota is EUR 25 according to all calculations made by the European Union, but we have 82. This isn't new news. By the end of next year, more than EUR 240 tonnes have been estimated for 130 and 2023 instead of EUR 25. Let's say that this green thing with the sale of this CO2 quota has failed. What is a concrete proposal? Do you, for example, CO2...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U218	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U219	... renewable energy charges such as zero would be the easiest decision to make from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U220	Thank you. I think that there are measures in this package that have a much greater impact than the impact of renewable energy charges on people's wallets. Renewable energy charges are one of the lowest. When we talk about, for example, network charges, these are the circum 10%, the value added tax on the circum of 10%, their effect is considerably higher than that of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U221	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You mentioned that the Auvere station was not planned, it was an emergency repair. The station's new. I'm asking you what the statistics on failures and repairs are. What are the main technical problems and what is the perspective? Can these failures be repaired and what happens next? If this complex issue is too complicated, then I am also satisfied with the written answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U223	Thank you. I think that in writing no one can confirm whether the repairs that are being carried out today in Auvere are the last or the last, or whether there will be more. There's been a problem with Auvere since his launch. The situation has been somewhat improved, but today no one can guarantee that this Auvere station will work all the time. The experience of Eesti Energia is that the older the boilers, the more reliable they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U224	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U225	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Today you made a political statement and a very large part of the Estonian people are waiting, not only for solutions, but also for explanations as to why we are in this situation. Why, for example, can you buy energy in Latvia, but Estonia itself does not have it according to production capacities? That's my question. The cold weather has been experienced by many of our neighbours and there are difficulties both in the Nordic countries and in our Latvian and Lithuanian neighbours. Is Estonia in a special situation? What about prices in the Nordic and other Baltic countries? Are we in a worse situation, a similar situation, or a better situation? And what have other countries done to control the price?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U226	Thank you. We're in a relatively similar situation. At the beginning of autumn, there really was a situation where the price of energy in the Baltic countries, including Estonia, was higher than in the Nordic countries, Finland and Sweden. But these last prizes have been such that they have been similar in Finland, similar to us in southern Sweden. True, there have been somewhat lower prices in northern Sweden, but these prices do not reach us simply because there are not enough transmission capacities to bring these lower prices into line or bring down prices in our region. With Latvia, we have almost always been in the same price range. So it's pretty much the same in all the Nordic countries, except for the real north of Sweden and Northern Norway.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U227	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U228	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! On Thursday, the Polish Parliament adopted a resolution to suspend the current sale of CO2 quotas and reform it. My first question: does the Estonian Government think that the Estonian Parliament should do the same? And my second question is that. Too lightly, we have now given up this furnace heating. If he doesn't want to, he'll be an alternative in our region, one way or the other. There's nothing to do, there's maybe the Mediterranean people don't understand that we have snow, we have winter, we have four seasons, and we should stay here [this heating method]. Doesn't the government plan to share firewood with people before the 2013 local elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U229	Thank you. The plan to share firewood does not make any sense, it has not been discussed. Now, with regard to the imminent withdrawal or suspension of CO2 from trade, indeed, Poland has proposed this. As I said, the Czech Republic has also supported, not the withdrawal, but still the suspension or the fundamental reform of this system. I, too, believe that there is a significant need for reform of the system. About the oven heater. I don't think it's right for us to start losing oven heating in Estonia. I also use oven heating myself, and I am very happy with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U230	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U231	Thank you. The questioner almost took away my question, but from the Minister's answer I realized that Estonia would support Poland if it came up with the elimination of the CO2 trading system. But I would like to ask, like what is happening in Hungary, where the price of the CO2 quota is being reduced by this, electricity for small consumers and also for the business that the European Union directives allow, could we perhaps go this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U232	Thank you. Yes, the directives or rules provide quite precisely what money from the sale of this CO2 quota can do, whether this price can be reduced or not. As I said earlier here, it simply needs to be legally analysed as to whether this is possible with these measures. If so, it is certainly one of the possible options.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U233	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. We can go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can take part in the negotiations. Lauri Läänemets, the Social Democratic Party, is the first to sign up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U234	I'll ask for an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U235	Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian person is in a situation where increased energy prices make him directly poorer. We have not come out of the corona crisis and its impact on the livelihood of our families. We have areas where there hasn't been a general increase in wages. Not only are people on lower incomes, but people on average pay are also in difficulty. What has the government done in this situation? First of all, at Prime Minister level, the seriousness of the problem was denied. Then, in public, ideas on the table and the density of rejection from the table have reminded the work of two-man time rather than the government's thoughtful plan and its implementation. To be honest, the Social Democrats have been appalled by the political statement made by the Minister of Enterprise and Infrastructure, Taavi Asa, a moment ago. No message for the people of Estonia. There is no new solution to what has been done a long time ago. There's no way out for pensioners who are alone in a candlelight home out of fear. No solution to the situation where expensive energy prices make everyone poorer and reduce the ability of our companies. An Estonian person does not need a government that does not make decisions. Spectacular policies hurt our families. At the beginning of the autumn, the Social Democrats presented a proposal to compensate for the total cost of renewable energy charges for people and businesses for a total of EUR 100 million from the CO2 quota money. Overruled, not done. We have proposed raising the level of living and using the existing system to support people with lower incomes. People's concerns began months ago, but the government's help has not reached anywhere, and the weakly prepared plan now threatens to overload the social workers of the municipalities. Not done. We have proposed a reduction in network charges of 100% and a reduction in VAT. For each child, an emergency allowance of EUR 100 should be paid to families. But nothing. Not done. Indifference. However, the main cause of the energy crisis is the lack of power generation capacity. The construction of wind parks was delayed during the previous period, especially during the term of office of this government. By 2025, if we leave Russia's network, the network connection, are we even ready to manage on our own? Maybe you don't just have to leave everything on the market. The role and responsibility of the State is to be a balancer, a fortress provider and, in the event of a non-functioning electricity market, a stand-alone player. The rise in energy prices should have been responded immediately, urgently and decisively. Next spring, the people of Estonia will be poorer than they were this autumn. And that's how it's gonna be for years now. In November, annual price growth reached 8.8%. Price growth has become increasingly rapid and broad-based. In November, electricity prices increased by 49% over the year. The result of the spectator's policy of increasing energy prices is a re-allocation of wealth from those who have little or those whose family has done more or less so up to now. There is a risk that rising energy prices will, in many cases, eat up wage increases both this year and next year. The cost of transport, food and services will no longer be cheaper, and the entire multi-annual social effort has been written in the chimney due to government failure. The Social Democrats want to hear how the government plans to balance the redistribution at the expense of the ordinary Estonian family. This plan is needed just as quickly as the solution to the current high energy prices. I would also like to come to the aid of the coalition, and I would remind you that tomorrow Parliament will discuss a plan to raise the tax-free minimum to a minimum wage initiated by the Socialists. This would benefit nearly half of the earners of EUR 370 per year. In fact, it would be a minimum of what to do at this point in time to prevent and reduce the overall loss of income. I also call on all parties in Parliament to support this plan tomorrow. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U237	Thank you. Next, I call Jaanus Karilaiu, representative of the Centre Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U238	Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate Mr Asa on his presentation and wish him the strength to implement the so-called cluster measures and develop forward-looking solutions in cooperation with the Riigikogu. The faction of the Centre Party is behind its Minister for Economic Affairs. It is in our common interest that the prices of sharply rising energy carriers do not undermine people's livelihood. A person cannot live without electricity, without light, without heat, without a refrigerator or without a washing machine, without speaking about industry. If we want more work and more income to continue in this country, we cannot afford constantly rising and opaquely rising energy prices. Our reaction must be quick. In addition to private individuals, private business needs to be put on the back of a more solid shoulder. We have launched a number of support measures, but they are not sufficient. A successful solution would be a cluster programme that would provide support for both families and businesses. There's no gold key. That is what Taavi Aas said. There have, of course, been mistakes in previous energy policy decisions. But it's gonna take years to fix the mistakes. These mistakes must be acknowledged, but today we need urgent support. Clear measures to mitigate price increases and to be implemented quickly are needed. In times of crisis, it is not polite or right to tell a person that you chose the wrong package. At this point, I recall that it was the former Minister for Economic Affairs who encouraged people to join the stock market package. The Heads of State pointed it out, and now it is time to take responsibility. In fact, there is no point in chewing on the issue of who is responsible for the shortfalls in energy production in Estonia, Europe and the world. It's not helping right now. We therefore need to move forward to local authorities with a partial solution to compensate for the rise in energy prices. The limit on the average amount is not enough. In addition, in the current situation, the state needs to draw very rapid conclusions as to why it takes so long to develop the programme. I'm sure Signe Riisalo has good reasons here, still so that there won't be such major failures in the future. In the face of the crisis, today we are seeing a very accurate X-ray of the capabilities of our ministries. The Estonian state must take greater control over the production and supply of energy, in the interests of the better functioning of our people and our companies. Excessive anomalies on the market must be compensated. Many observers may ask why this lack of political co-ordination is not sufficient to agree on these measures, their resources and their timetable for implementation. The reason is simple: reality is perceived differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U239	Thank you very much. Next from the Isamaa Group, Urmas Reinsalu, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs! The political time of this government is over, as far as I'm concerned. Political decisions in the various crises, the security crisis, the energy crisis, the corona crisis, have only come when these decisions have been beaten out of this government. Parliament also has this responsibility now, in the energy crisis, to beat the decisions of the government out of it. I support the position of the Minister for Economic Affairs; I understand perfectly who knows the political context of why the Minister for Economic Affairs came to the board. It was a cry for help. It was a suggestion that large level solutions are not reached in the government, and now Parliament has to say, cross-partyly, that in the current situation, the passive nature of the situation is ku-ri-te-ge-ge-lik. Unforgivable! And that is precisely the decision and the situation over time-critical decisions. What do you really do? Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs gave a brief overview of possible options for such a menu. What are the visions of the Fatherland? We have both given reasons for them and have submitted corresponding draft decisions to Parliament's proceedings. First of all, take the full amount of renewable energy charges into the public budget allocation and, at the expense of consumers, delete renewable energy charges, currently in this crisis. Secondly, a specific proposal: VAT on energy carriers, both electricity, district heating and gas, will be shifted from 20% to 9% for household customers. If removing renewable energy charges from consumers' accounts would result in financial savings for consumers in a large way, for both industrial and domestic consumers on a consolidated basis, a reduction in VAT would amount to EUR 225 million for domestic consumers. In total, it would be EUR 325 million, so we are essentially talking about 1% of gross domestic product. For these measures, one is to resist price losses, the price crisis, but the other is: these proposals have at least one-and-a-half times, if not twice the leverage effect, also to mitigate price increases. We are talking about this now, a respectable Parliament, that November inflation was 8.8%, but the government is still living on the basis of the summer economic forecast. The next proposal that the Isamaa Group has. Its content is one and clear: the reform of the electricity market must be carried out in Estonia. The elements of the electricity market reform are as follows: Firstly, electricity must be defined as a universal service, as a vital service. In the current situation, we have mail, mail, Christmas Christmas card in the universal service, which is guaranteed by law. However, electricity has not been defined as a universal service, although we know that modern society, industrial society, the information society is an energy-based society, especially when we talk about energy in our belts as a source of heating and an operator of the economy as a whole. Secondly, in the case of universal service, the incumbent electricity producer in Nord Pool Estonia's price area, i.e. essentially Eesti Energia, is obliged to offer an off-exchange package to small customers, with the volume of consumption of small consumers being at least five sharps in our estimation. These are both smaller companies and all domestic consumers. And notice, we're not saying that we should leave the stock market in full or so. This decision must be made by consumers. Those who want to operate on a stock exchange with EUR 1000 price shocks can be on the stock market and contribute to the stock market's risk management, but who want to have defined universal service packages with a more stable price horizon, which, according to our electricity market reform, can be obliged to offer electricity producers, can choose this option. The question now is what will the price of electricity offered as a universal service to small consumers be as a result of the reform of the electricity market. Our proposal for a reform of the electricity market is to take the whole of this cushion, CO2 allowances, where one increase in the euro's CO2 emission quota means an increase in the price of one euro's megawatt of electricity, and to say, according to the European Union's Energy Market Directive, in the case of electricity provided as universal service for small consumers, the national budget will have to be set up in the same way as the country takes with one hand, because the producer will have to pay the price of the electricity provided in the universal service package. As a universal service, this electricity price package would be regulated as a coordinator and price regulator by the Competition Authority. At today's meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the Director of the Competition Authority confirmed that this is in line with the rules of the European Union. Recently Hungary moved to it, France is also using the home consumer package as a universal service, and Lithuania, for example, is doing so in our Nord Pool countries. This can be done in the short term, and from this level, if these measures were implemented under the reform of the electricity market, small consumers would be able to obtain electricity in the order of less than EUR 50 per megawatt. Now, about the government's plans. The government's time horizon on the crisis relief package is too small, it's only three months next year. We must orient ourselves in terms of the years, not in terms of 90 days. Secondly, the vision that the government has proposed is too little, too late and too inept. The idea that we will have 300,000 families write applications to the municipalities and city halls, half of the people will then be energy poor, who will have to turn and ask for help from the municipalities and city halls. In Narva, we must do so, as we heard today at the meeting, 20,000 families. The state has failed [to start paying out the money], the officials said that we have not yet developed the systems, we have not foreseen. Officials do feel better when we start paying out this money only in January, because then you can pay at once, there is no need to submit a statement several times. But it's not fair to people who have Christmas coming and who live so that [heavy is] the end of [come out]. So this measure hits the two pages of society. It is ideological to build a philosophy of class struggle for energy. The mitigation measures must apply to all domestic and small consumers, which are businesses, and must be implemented immediately. There's a toolbox. Where does that cover come from? Kate will be found in hundreds of millions of euros coming into the state budget next year due to the rise in CO2 quota charges, the rise in VAT prices and other sources. We have to act. The plan is there, it must be implemented, but, unfortunately, there is a lack of political will at the level of the government. The unravelling of this problem, the Gordion node, must be tackled in Parliament without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U241	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U242	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the law, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy had to be entitled to make a political statement. It turned out the statement came from the Centre Party. The Minister quickly distanced himself from the government and made it clear that we would argue with the Centre Party. If he had spoken to the Minister for Economic Affairs, he would not have mentioned two randomly selected entrepreneurs as the first source, one of whom he had spoken to and read the second interview, but would have defined the size of the problem. Unfortunately, we don't have a debate here, or I would still have done it for a long time, what the magnitude of the problem is, how it is distributed between different social groups. I certainly know that last year, electricity has accounted for 3% of private consumption. I would have liked the minister to say, first thing, that it is now 10%, for example. I doubt that this is 10%, certainly this is not the average of the year either this year or next year, but at least this would have been the story of the Minister of Economic Affairs, which he should have illustrated with the facts, not with the rumors. I would have liked to hear about this wise proposal that he has said here: a temporary reduction in VAT. It was supposed to help businesses, it was supposed to help in the event of a problem of inflation. Well, then, please, Minister of the Economy, an economic man? If businesses get VAT back, point one, if leaving money for people, which is nice in itself, because it increases demand, how does inflation fall? So how much does he fall? We don't collect cash from people, it's beautiful, but inflation isn't what we're suppressing with it. It will not be transferred from goods to goods, VAT will not be transferred from goods to goods, as you said here, because it is something that will be recovered as input VAT. It's not going to pass. VAT does not help businesses and does not help them to reduce inflation in this way. This effect is controversial, because inflation takes the opposite place, it creates demand. And, of course, the budget is also negative. The Minister for Economic Affairs would have talked about who would win some kind of package, about any suggestions on how it would be distributed, who it would help. I already described VAT. It is very embarrassing when the Chairman of the Riigikogu or, be it Mr Helme, puts a post that he won four euros from the online fee. Thank you, party and government, personally me! Well, there's no measure. This is also in proportion to consumption. How can you praise yourself for winning more than a common citizen, who is often in real trouble? That's not fair. It's propaganda, it's propaganda from one party, to which others are praising and praising. I would have liked to know where the party that held the Energy Minister's portfolio for the fifth year has been wrong and what it now wants to improve. Where are the new production capacities? I can say that I've been talking to the Minister of Finance since the 0s about having wind farms so we can have Auvere. I have praised nuclear energy. What have I heard from the Minister for Economic Affairs? Nothing! VAT must be reduced. Even how it works, I haven't heard it. Where are the savings and production measures that the Minister for Energy has put out? Where are the messages for the middle class to come to help, to help provide insulation grants, smart consumption grants? These smart solutions exist, right? Where are the benefits of the solar panel, which the government can do now, so as not to leave the middle class with a long nose, because it has suffered an unexpected increase in prices. Of course, this is a problem in some families, but then this problem has to be defined and something answered about it. Where's the 1,000 megawatts? Why are 1000 megawatts in Estonia not guaranteed? Explain what the Minister of Energy has done to do this? Why hasn't the Minister of Energy spoken... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U243	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U244	...the stock exchange's really big fluctuations? Where there have been consultations with other countries on the Nord Pool case, can this price ceiling be established there? At least the answer that this cannot be imposed is an example that the Minister is working and actually wants to solve something. Where does the Minister have negotiations against CO2 trade fluctuations and speculation? Why wasn't it in today's statement? Why am I sitting here for hours waiting for me to get smarter? I didn't get any smarter, I swear. I found out there's nothing to say except that there's not enough of it and others don't perceive reality. Yes, they do. New projects, new productions, new transfers, all this is an issue. Somewhere restrictive. Yes, I do not know exactly either, but I hear countries have become protectionist, there are negotiations at European level by the Minister for Economic Affairs, in other words the Minister for Energy, on whether such a thing is compatible with European rules and what can be done. It's easy to point the finger: that's what the government does, I'm the Centre Party here, but look, this government doesn't do anything. The main thing in this whole story, apart from being irresponsible and failing to provide content, is that the state is not something that sits in Stenbock, but the state is a taxpayer and a consumer. These roles must not be confused. It cannot be that the taxpayer takes the place of the consumer and the consumer responsibility disappears and the state simply pays for consumption. It's so strange to hear that I can take those prices out by the hour, how much someone's taking and then start compensating. This is bullshit! The consumer must take responsibility for himself. Jüri Ratas was also responsible, started to start the washing machine at night. He did the right thing. There was nothing to mock. It was the right thing to do. All people have to do this. But no, look, you say you pay for an hour and start all the machines in your time. That's not how the economy works, that's not how the state works. The taxpayer and the consumer are themselves things, the consumer has a responsibility, the taxpayer has a responsibility, they must not be confused. And then there's helping the weak. It is also the responsibility of the taxpayer to help the weak. And it's very generous to have some kind of help for 600,000 people. This role will be confused and the taxpayer will pay more. That's a lot of help already. And to say that it's very little is ridiculous. The main thing, however, is that prices are no longer dependent on price additions, at least not to a significant extent, but on stock exchange prices. And that's what I'd like to hear. Is there anything you can do? Is this an opportunity for ceilings? Are there any possibilities against speculation? Are there negotiations with other countries that could be done to harmonise this price? I think maybe the answer is no, but then you should hear it. The minister should show that he knows the situation, he knows that France is even worse because Germany screwed up some kind of power plant, shut down its stations, shut down the power plants. But where is our man's vision? He supports wind farms, nuclear plants, private investment grants. We didn't hear about it. And it's very sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U245	Henn Põllaas, EKRE faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U246	More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U247	Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U248	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to this last presentation, it was a very interesting feeling that we have one member of the government, one party, see that in an even bigger opposition than the rest of the Riigikogu opposition, because the Reform Party is not fit to take the steps taken by the Minister of Economic Affairs of this government or by the government, even without taking action. So that's great. I guess we're looking forward to this sunrise government, which has brought us to the deep sunset, simply falling apart by its own contradictions. In this situation, where we are, this should happen because we are in a situation that cannot be described differently than disaster, as a result of wrong and inadequate political decisions. Electricity prices are rising, people and entire families are in increasing trouble not only because of the bill they are being charged, but also because of all the other rising prices, because the economy and businesses are also suffering from it. Inflation is galloping. Today we have already heard news of our largest electricity consumer closing doors. And the most intrusive, the biggest energy consumer, Estonian Cell only recently received a prize from the Minister of the Environment as the most environmentally friendly company in Estonia. Now he's put a stick on them. I congratulate the Minister of Economic Affairs, Taavi Asa, that he dared to come here before the Riigikogu to discuss this very, very sharp issue. At the same time, we cannot fail to wonder where we have the Prime Minister again. For several weeks he has been hiding from the Riigikogu, not showing up, as we have seen here in the case of the spring corona crisis. He's probably scared. When the political statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs on electricity prices was added to today's agenda, of course we all hoped that we would now hear some new proposals of principle. Unfortunately, we did not hear anything like that. The Minister said that we need long-term measures, but we also need short-term measures to alleviate the electricity price crisis, and said that he would support all the proposals that would help bring prices down. Very good, I'm glad for that. The Reform Party, another government partner, does not want to hear any suggestions. But, yes, unfortunately, there were no proposals in this political statement. EKRE has already come up with a series of constructive proposals in the autumn to resolve the situation, and other opposition parties have also made proposals. Unfortunately, the government and the coalition have just rejected them all. However, the measures adopted by the government are anything but adequate. With one hand, CO2 quotas and stock market prices, the price of renewable energy and whatever the people are screaming at, and with the other hand, small, small, humiliating subsidies are being spilled from it. Half of Estonia's people are literally made beggars, who must go to beg for help and alms, suppressing their dignity. It's abnormal. However, the business sector, which is on the verge of survival, is completely forgotten, although it is just as important or even more important, because if we do not have entrepreneurship, if it does not work, then neither will our people have a job. I repeat some of the proposals that we have put forward to solve the problem of electricity prices without making people dependent on social assistance. It should be borne in mind here that electricity is not a luxury commodity. Whether we want it or not, today electricity is more of a human right. Firstly, this stock exchange system, which does not make any sense, must be abandoned, because some of it receives electricity at a cheaper price, some at a more expensive price, and there is virtually no limit. Regulated prices must be fixed. There is a need to stop people from being fined with a CO2 quota and to exit or at least stop this emission quota trading system and ask the European Union to redeploy it. As Poland does, for example, we support them. It is necessary to reduce or instead to suspend the renewable electricity charge. The reduction in VAT will certainly also help, which is over 200 million, which will save us in favour of people and businesses. It is also possible to restore direct purchases of cheap electricity from Russia to compensate for the electricity deficit. It's not kosher, yes, I know, but we're buying it now and buying it at 100 times the price in Finland. Well, there is no economic logic at all. In a situation where we are actually producing electricity in Narva for the circa 50 euros megawatt-hour, and our people have to buy it for 1,000 euros per megawatt-- that's not normal. This is completely absurd. Here, the state and the government must adopt all possible measures. And not only by one by one, and not by humiliating people, or by throwing down some kind of subsidies, but they must be a complex of measures, the same as I read here and the other opposition parties have come up with. They all work together. The price of electricity must be brought down if we want to remain a nation and a state and if we want our business to be competitive. If Jaanus Karilaid at the end said that the Centre Party was very welcome behind his Minister for Economic Affairs, then I would say here that EKRE is behind the people. But the Reform Party seems to be somewhere behind the tree. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Because it seems that they do not care about Estonia, the Estonian people or anything, but about power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U249	Thank you. The negotiations have been concluded, but yes, the Minister is still in a position to say the final word.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I want to thank you for this debate. I would like to thank those who were in favour, and I would also like to thank those who were not in support, because this is a parliamentary debate. And I very much hope that this presentation provided the basis for moving faster towards decisions and moving faster towards helping the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U251	Got it. Thank you. The negotiations have now been concluded and today's first item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U252	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. I call as rapporteur Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U253	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation for the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism was carried out by the Riigikogu in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 6 December. As we have discussed here before today, this point is also directly linked to the draft law on ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism 479 and we will discuss these at the Wednesday session of this week. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu prepared an opinion on the draft, and according to the opinion, the role of Parliament in the decision-making processes of the ESM is optimal, both in accordance with the law in force today and the amendments to this draft. The Riigikogu is sufficiently involved in the decision-making process and is also in line with the decision of the ESM of the Supreme Court. The opinion also referred to the need for technical specifications in the draft. No amendments were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments, and therefore, as a result of the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department, the Commission decided by consensus to make technical specifications in the draft, aimed at harmonising the wording and ensuring legal clarity. All the clarifications are incorporated in one amendment. The Commission then unanimously took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 13 December, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 15 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U254	Thank you. There are questions. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U255	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Since there was a very long controversy here to approve the agenda, I have a substantive question for you. The President of the sitting of the Riigikogu indicated that it was necessary to adopt this matter by 1 January, and because this second draft, which is subject to proceedings, is already on the agenda during this working week, this must be done. But there is no deadline for entry into force for the draft 480. My question is clear: why must it be adopted by 1 January? Secondly, how many European countries have enforced it, in their national legal order, supposedly completed the ratification of this Treaty by 1 January? And thirdly, why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs get so late when such deadlines were ahead, I imagine, as a government commitment or something, as a draft from Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U256	Thank you for a good question. When we are talking about ratifying the Treaty amendment, we are still talking about draft 479. When we are talking about this draft, this draft rather sets out the national procedures for implementing the new ESM measure. I say that they could be in place when the ESM changes come into effect, but they don't have to be directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U257	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U258	Thank you. I'm asking the same question I asked Vice President Hanno Pevkur earlier. When the Supreme Court considered its compatibility with our Constitution when we joined the ESM and ratified this Treaty, they said that okay, we can join, but the mandate of the transfer of power is exhausted, and all subsequent transfers of power and decision-making must be asked by the people, to organise a referendum. Now we give extra power again, we give up our decision-making powers, and that is totally contrary to the decision of this Supreme Court and therefore to the Constitution. How was the Commission able to discuss this in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U259	Thank you for your question. The members of the committee were still based on the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu on this issue, and there is no contradiction with this draft concerning constitutionality.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U260	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U261	Good manager! Good waitress! You didn't answer Urmas before. Was there any discussion in the Commission as to how many European Union countries have already ratified this decision that we are in such a terrible hurry? It must be said with shame that no one in the Commission paid attention to this when it was put to the vote that there would be a second and a third reading in the same week. I guess in that respect, you can only shake ashes on your head. According to my memory, there were so few who have ratified that we are in no hurry to do so. Poland and Hungary, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U262	Thank you for your question. I do not know the exact number at the moment, but there was an agreement between all the ESM States Parties that ratification will be completed by the end of the year, and all the letters concerning ratification will also be deposited before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U263	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U264	Thank you very much, manager. Good waitress! I have such a very simple and specific question. When you examined this law in the Commission, did you look at the question that this dispute between the ESM, which ended in 2012 at the Supreme Court, was a very analogous dispute. Are they connected to each other? Is there no conflict there and, as a result of this decision of the Supreme Court of 2012, cannot there be a contradiction with the Constitution? Did you even discuss such a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U265	Thank you for your question. Once again, we were based on the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and, more specifically, we did not further address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U266	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U267	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is about the speed of this procedure. I don't know, maybe you didn't really discuss it in the committee, and you just went down the government lane, but maybe you could still open up a little bit, which was behind, so we have to do both readings this week, two and three at a time. In your opinion, did the government submit this draft too late in the Commission's proceedings, or did it simply fall into the Commission's proceedings, and the Commission was unable to manage its work properly and to plan the work properly? Where under the rock was the cancer really that we had to spend so much time today in the implementation of the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U268	Thank you for a very good question. Once again, this draft provides for national procedures for implementing the new ESM measure. When the members of the Commission made their consensual decision, we were all based on the fact that these national procedures could still be in place at the time of the entry into force of the ESM amendments. Speaking of speed, we all know that, in fact, the procedure of a draft law in the Commission takes up to three months on average. When we look at this schedule, this draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 8 November, which was already discussed by the Commission on 16 November. The first reading in the Chamber was on 24 November and the deadline for tabling amendments was 2 December. The Commission discussed the issue again on 6 December and the second reading in the Chamber will be held on 13 December. In fact, the Commission also had a little less time than normal practice. If you ask whether the government has submitted [the draft] too late, I will say that if we had a little more time in the Commission, we could also work at a slightly different pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U269	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U270	Thank you, good waitress. Did the Commission explain whose interests the European Stability Mechanism is in its current form? Is it in the interests of the peoples of Europe, the countries of Europe? Is it in the interests of the larger countries, or is it in the interests of the smaller countries, or is it in the interests of the European Union institutions, or is it in the interests of the international banking cartel?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U271	Thank you. Yes, well on the general question, I will also try to answer well in general. I think it is in the interests of all States Parties that want this stability and the functioning of the Banking Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U272	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U273	Thank you, good manager. Here's the question. We have two drafts: one is 479, the other is 480. The 479 bill is the main act, that is, the change of the notorious ESM. Draft 480, which we are discussing today, is an implementing act, i.e. we will look at the implementing act sooner than the basic act itself. But on Wednesday, we will discuss this way that we have the third reading of the implementing act and the second reading of the basic act, and then there may be a situation that the basic act will not be adopted at second reading, but the implementing act will be adopted. How are we gonna look at this now? Then we will have a legal situation where we have an implementing act, but there is no law. Something like the infamous Cohabitation Act, where the exact opposite is the law, but there are no implementing acts. Is this the kind of half lawmaking we're supposed to have, or what about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U274	Good question. As you yourself pointed out, we already have the opposite situation, where the law has been passed, but there are no implementing acts. I think we have enough wise ambassadors in the Riigikogu to resolve the question of whether it is going forward, whether both drafts will be adopted, or if necessary, both drafts will be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U275	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U276	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your reply to Urmas Reinsalu, you said that there is no time for entry into force in the case of the 480 bill, and indeed, there is no special time for entry into force in the bill. There is no indication that it should enter into force on 1 January, nor is there any reference to the relevant provision or law of the European Union. In your response to Aivar Koka, you once again argued that it was as if the Member States had negotiated and agreed to try to ratify this package of treaty amendments by the end of the year. Which one's right now? It is either that it needs to be enforced by 1 January, or that it does not need to be enforced. And if you are saying that there is a need for enforcement, please also indicate why it is necessary to enforce, which requires or requires its entry into force from 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U277	Thank you. In reply to Aivar Koka's question, I spoke about the draft law 479 on the law on ratification of the Treaty, in which all the States Parties agreed that, by the end of the year, they will get to the end of this question. As far as this draft is concerned, on which there were many questions at the beginning of today's sitting, there really is no date, but we are still based on the fact that implementing acts, or the part concerning the implementation of the ESM, could already be adopted and valid at the moment when we amend the ESM Treaty. If that does not happen, then we simply have to rely on the Constitution, other laws and the current procedures for dealing with ESM measures. There's nothing else we can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U278	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U279	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You certainly know that the state budget law is being dealt with for quite a long time, many months, so that it is clear and precise. It's going to be pretty early. And if you look at the volume of our budget, that's 14 commas of something, that's a pretty big number. But with this draft, we are basically taking a decision of EUR 65 billion. This bill was filed on 8 November, practically a month ago. And we want to finish it here. Please explain how it is possible to deal with such a large amount of draft [concerning], where things should be done very thoroughly, very briefly, but at the same time we are processing the state budget for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U280	Thank you. As far as the ESM is concerned, the volume of the ESM should not really change for the States Parties. As far as the state budget is concerned, I think it is one of the most important documents that we are dealing with here, and that is why it takes more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U281	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U282	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! There were many questions and the [Commission] trusted the Legal Department of the Riigikogu and their opinion. I ask whether, before sending you to second reading, you have also been given a list of countries that will accept it immediately in any case, of countries that have reservations and of countries that are working against it. If so, I would also like to mention the names of some of these countries, so that we can understand that you had an adequate overview of the moods of this draft in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U283	Thank you for your question. I do not have any information that any of the ESM States Parties would oppose ratification of this Treaty amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U284	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U285	Thank you. Now it's messed up like a soup and cabbage. I mean, here's the question. At the beginning of the sitting, the President cut iron: we need to deal with it, because it will have to be adopted by 1 January. It has now become apparent that we referred to it as 'the mother's law' on Bill 479 and that there is no separate date for entry into force on 1 January of this second so-called 'the tail law'. Correct me. Now, let me get this straight, you said that draft 480 has nothing to do with it having to come into force mechanically on 1 January? Where does it come from, which act, which political decision at European level, that this contraption will come by 1 January, I mean, the 'bottle' of draft 479? It's gotten really messed up. It is also a question of the dignity of Parliament today, because the information on which Parliament was based and on which the agenda was adopted was quite different.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U286	Okay, I'll start at the end. As this draft specifies the national procedures related to the implementation of the ESM as a result of changes to the ESM, there is actually no direct date. But I would point out once again that it would be good if they were already in force when the 479 SEs came into force as law. And this agreement that the draft ratification of the ESM amendments should come to an end by the end of the year will exist between all ESM States Parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U287	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U288	Thank you, good waitress. You answered my question by saying that the ESM is in the interest of all those who want the stability of the euro area. Now you will certainly agree with me that the balance laws in the economy apply exactly as they do in all natural processes, and these balance laws cannot be ignored. This, in turn, means that the formation of short-term stability could lead to a much greater loss of stability in the long term. This is precisely what we see in the form of the ESM and other similar debt-based monetary mechanisms, where the debts of the future are paid off today. So my question is, what stability are we talking about? Are we talking about short-term stability at the expense of future generations, or are we talking about long-term stability, for which, for example, some banks need to be bankrupted in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U289	Thank you. All these mechanisms, which concern ensuring stability at the level of the Banking Union and the entire ESM mechanism, still provide for a long-term objective. In the Commission, we did not discuss this issue so thoroughly and widely. But I don't see the dangers you're describing in the changes that the bill provides for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U290	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U291	Thank you. Good waitress! I was not on the commission on Tuesday, there was the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, I am very sorry. But listening to this rally here for several hours, I'd like to know what happened there. We have two Kokkas on the Commission, we have Urmas Reitelmann. Did they really fight there for a long time to keep this bill off the agenda, or was it not like that? I didn't hear it myself, and my sincere question is how did you manage to suppress the opposition there and still send this thing to the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U292	Thank you. I think I have already mentioned this somewhere, but all the decisions were taken by consensus in the Commission, including those concerning the referral of the draft to the plenary agenda by 13 and 15 December. All members of the Commission took part. [[There's a debate in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U293	The minutes must contain the names at the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U294	I will read you the names Dmitri Dmitriyev, Ivi Eenmaa, Aivar Kokk, Rene Kokk, Jürgen Ligi, Urmas Reitelmann, Kersti Sarapuu, Riina Sikkut, Aivar Sõerd. [[There's a protest in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U295	[[Noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here at the beginning of the sitting, the second vice-president Hanno Pevkur taught us repeatedly and read out this sentence, which is the procedural question that it is about the conduct of the sitting. I am now asking you: is this okay or a well-organised sitting, if some ambassadors are screaming at random questions to the waitress at any time, the waitress answers them, and the chair only smiles at it and praises? Please explain to me whether I can start screaming or whether I should press the "Word" button or how I should act if I am interested in who took part in the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U297	The comment is, of course, justified that there should be no random noise in the hall, but it was a specific point within the conversation, and I tried to keep it on the line so that there shouldn't be a procedural question that I didn't get the exact number. I think we almost figured out there's probably a protocol error. If Jürgen Ligi says he wasn't there, but the protocol says he voted in favour, it's not accurate. But let's try this... Well, here we go! A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U298	I hate procedural questions. But didn't the chairman of the hearing notice that I had to leave the meeting of the Bank of Estonia, that I actually said so. I don't want this joke to sound like I was lying.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U299	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U300	I really did not take part in this debate, did I, Mr President?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U301	I heard that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U302	Thank you. Then we are in agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U303	...and then the waitress read the people who voted in favour of the proposal and your name was in it. [[There's a comment in the hall.]] Well, let's settle this later. Let's try to move on with the report. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U304	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! § 115 of the Constitution states that the Riigikogu must adopt a state budget for all revenue and expenditure. There you go. The question is that when the Government of the Republic submitted the draft on 8 November, the ESM's financial obligations had to be reflected in the state budget. My question is, what line does the obligation on the Estonian state come from in the state budget? And there's another question. Of course, according to the Constitution, this state budget may be changed, but [can be done] on a proposal from the Government of the Republic. My question is specific: do the financial obligations of this bill exist somewhere in the State Budget Act and on what line?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U305	Thank you. I must stress here that although the content of the reform is the extension of the mandate of the ESM, the reform does not really change the volume of the ESM.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U306	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U307	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I was a little surprised that maybe in your area there will be such great European movements and then there will be no description of the background system. I recall that Estonia wanted to join this ACTA and was almost already joining it, but fortunately, it was looked at what was happening in Europe, and so we had it. After that, on Saturday and Sunday, on a cold day, everyone outside and the right men, that you see, we've been stopped. In other words, they are still watching and able to observe what is happening around Estonia. But my question is, on November 8th or when you had this first meeting, did they say it needed to be handled within a month? Did they tell you right away that he should be in the 15th jar?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U308	Thank you. The Government of the Republic shall submit or initiate drafts on the date on which they do so. The Commission did its best to reach the end of this draft and the accompanying draft as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U309	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U310	Thank you. This is now the top of the iceberg of problems only, which we have discovered here today. If it is stated in the Commission's [Protocol] that Jürgen Ligi voted in favour of it and achieved a consensual result, which has been confirmed here several times today in a large hall, and it turns out that Jürgen Ligi was not at all voting there because he was in the meeting of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, then it requires a serious investigation by the Riigikogu Board. But that's my question. We have been assured that the vote took place in a consensual manner, but was it equally misleading in the Commission for Members to know that by 1 January the draft must have been ratified and must have entered into force? Perhaps that is why the Commission was consensually prepared to go on the road to two readings in one week. Did the Commission have misleading information as it did here today?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U311	Thank you for your question. Since in the Commission we dealt with both 479 SEs and 480 SEs in parallel, and the members of the Commission did not have such specific questions in my memory, it seems to me that everything was clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U312	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U313	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! I trust the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but I'm still checking. Indeed, last Tuesday was a situation where I had to attend both the Teams meeting at the Monetary Committee and the Webex meeting at Eesti Pank and I failed to connect them, and I had to switch to the Eesti Pank meeting. And that's why I asked my first question. But I didn't get a satisfactory answer, I have to admit. No, I didn't. The big hall didn't understand anything right now either. Tell me what really meant that you had such a consensus. Was the opposition somehow suppressed, sent away, deprived of their voting rights, or shut down? How was it, as you describe, that there was no argument and everyone was in favour? Well, except for the Ligi who was supposed to be at two meetings at once and may suffer that shame. But that is what happened in the Committee on Monetary Affairs? How did Aivar Kokk, Rene Kokk and Urmas Reitelmann so much as ease at that moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U314	Thank you, my good colleague. It just seems to me that both of these drafts were well explained and that the Members of the Commission did not have very many questions. There was no controversy like today in this Chamber, and therefore consensus was reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U315	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U316	Now I get embarrassed as a member of the Commission. In the Commission, on the one hand, it was said that it was awfully fast, all ratification this year, but now it is not urgent. Several drafts were discussed at the same time, and nowhere was it made very clear when the vote was put to two readings in the same week. If somebody thought like that, it may be very good, but I have to start watching this verbatim report, how it was put to the vote and how it was during the debate. I guess this wasn't very well explained to us in the Commission. Or what does it look like to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U317	Thank you. Well, I don't exactly remember discussing it anymore. I am currently following the protocol, and when the decisions have been taken that we all support the referral of the draft to the plenary agenda by both 13 and 15 December, that requires that the debate is within a week, and then I think we had to understand that we had to discuss the drafts on Monday and Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U318	Now there's a bunch of procedures. First Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U319	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have this procedural question about how you should be acting right now. What do the Rules of Procedure say when it turns out that the rules of procedure were likely to be seriously violated in the Commission, a number of drafts were discussed at the same time? It is unclear who took part in the vote, whether they participated in the vote and what was voted at all. At the same time, this is a very important issue concerning the use of 68 billion. Is there no way that, under the Rules of Procedure, this procedure should be reopened by the Commission, or how is this an option?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U320	When the matter has already arrived in the large hall and approved by the Board of the Riigikogu and the big hall on the agenda... I say, of course, that we have received the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the reading and that we can vote on it. If, in the course of this debate, we are able to reach the point that most of the ambassadors in this Chamber believe that this interruption is necessary and justified, this is one way of reducing procedural confusion. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U321	Thank you. I'm also out of line. Such disorderly conduct, I must admit, I have not noticed in Parliament's story. In a situation where [the debate] actually has the implementation of very important international commitments, and in a situation where the protocol has been drawn up in some way, the Members of the Commission say that they did not understand what was decided and what motives were decided, this matter is clearly getting out of hand. But my question is for the President of the sitting. This information, which has sounded, has been different from the information provided by the leading waitress, the information provided by the chairman of the sitting before you as a member of the Bureau. And now my question to you, as a member of the Bureau, is: when this question was discussed in the Bureau, was it based on this and was the information that, by 1 January, these things had to be accepted or not? Secondly, was the Bureau also aware of the outcome of the vote on the minutes, which has been based and appealed on a consensual vote on an ongoing basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U322	Yeah. Two things. One thing is that the Commission really sent it to the Bureau as an argument. I immediately raised the question of why there are two readings in one week, and then this argument was that it has been agreed, well, in principle, in ECOFIN it has been agreed that the ratification process is trying to be completed within this year's number, and that is the reason. The second is that when procedural decisions are taken on the dates of reading and reading rapporteurs, it is quite common for the Commission to have consensual decisions, regardless of whether or not the opposition supports the draft. The fact that we go to the hall with the procedure is a common consensus. We didn't overcheck it in any way, or we didn't see anything suspicious about it. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U323	Thank you, Mr President. In addition to this procedural question, which Mr Puustusmaa has asked, that there are problems here in dealing with this matter, I see today a very serious constitutional problem. I think that there is probably no dispute over the fact that the ESM creates certain financial obligations for the state, i.e. the state budget, and, of course, according to the Constitution, the state budget is drawn up in accordance with the law. What I want to say next is that there is no debate about the fact that all the resources needed to cover expenditure and revenue must also be indicated in the state budget and, in this case, in this very draft. Since, at the moment, the honourable representative replied that he could not tell which budget line there are sources of cover, if we need to implement the ESM, and that it has not been introduced either, even though there was an opportunity, in this case this draft law is in fact contrary to the Constitution. I would like to say that, in fact, this draft should be interrupted at the moment, because it is contrary to the Constitution. I'm not gonna give up those numbers again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U324	Yeah, well, the cut-off proposal has come. Interruption can always be proposed by the Commission itself. But I have to say here that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs should know this from my previous job, and I also know that the financial obligations of the ESM are, in fact, within the state budget, on the debt line for financial transactions. And if we believe in this argument, which goes with this procedure, that the amount will not change, then it will actually be covered in the state budget for all those years when we have an ESM commitment. Urmas Reinsalu is also a procedural one. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U325	Thank you, Mr President. [Let's] try to shed some light on this messy thing. You said that the Committee on Monetary Affairs informed the Bureau, as is the argument of 1 January. This argument has, in fact, now been refuted, as regards legal bindingness, we have not found such a date in the basic law or in the tail law in terms of legal meaning. Sometimes, indeed, it is said that the law must enter into force on 1 January and Parliament will adjust its procedure, say, it is necessary, for example, in terms of financial commitments or the logic of the financial year, there is nothing unusual in itself. There is no such situation at the moment. My question is: in what way, and on behalf of the Commission, who made such a statement, and is it in a form to be reproduced in writing? Let me make it clear that this was actually an ECOFIN oral agreement or a call formulated by the ECOFIN leader. Was it a political call, or was it in any way negotiated between the States and the Communiqué formulated to enforce the ESM amendments and implement these agreements mandatory for the ESM Member States by 1 January? These two aspects: who did and what form of misleading views were presented to Parliament's Bureau? Because it is possible that the bona fide former members of the board, who voted differently, were, in fact, not possible, but supposedly aware of other information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U326	If some things are agreed in the Council of Ministers of Europe, then there is usually some kind of time horizon fixed there, and it is usually fixed either in a communiqué or in some kind of interpersonal papers, it is customary. When the Committee on Monetary Affairs gave us these dates, there was a justification attached to it, I suppose it was attached to it. I did not read the material that had been received by the authorities, but they were attached to it and, if I remember correctly, one more time, the matter was also addressed by telephone to the officials of the Committee on Finance and the officials of the Bureau. And this recital of reasoning was not told us that it was legally binding, that we knew that it was not legally binding; it was specifically mentioned that it was a political objective agreed at the level of the Council of Ministers of Europe. So in that sense, I didn't see us being misled in any way. My argument was that this political horizon is not mandatory for the Estonian Parliament, and we do our work according to our internal agreements and procedures and usually do two readings in one week. Now there's Kalle Grünthal again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U327	Thank you, Mr President. I thank you for enlightening Members of Parliament on the details that the rapporteur is unable to answer, although this is not your court. Thank you very much. We're about to get smarter. But I basically have a different question. As we know, the same topics of the stability mechanism all went through the Committee on European Union Affairs, i.e. the European Union Affairs Committee, which Parliament has authorised to take decisions on its behalf, gave its consent to implement these matters. In essence, we are suddenly dealing with a two-cameral Parliament which is not actually foreseen by our constitution. All these issues, including the ESM, should go through a large hall, not through any Commission. It doesn't matter that there's been a mandate to do it. In the same way, it can be said that Parliament gives a mandate, I do not know, for any citizen to make any kind of decision, but that is not possible because there is no mandate in this matter. What I want to say is that, in fact, the authorisation given by the Committee on European Union Affairs to implement these things is not in accordance with our constitution. These issues should still have been implemented by the whole of Parliament, but not by any Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U328	I would like to point out that we are now in the big hall with the same subject. LAK alone cannot decide this matter, indeed. But please don't try to drag me into this political debate or debate on this draft, because that is what we have a waitress for. And there's a question for the waitress. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U329	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Well, this confusion, as you can see, is largely due to the procedure we are talking about endlessly today, and probably because there are so many times. My question to you comes from the parliamentary working arrangements: what is the role of the Commission? After all, the role of the Commission is actually to review those drafts that come into operation, even the minister usually goes to the committee to take stock of the drafts that come in the season. Doesn't the Committee on Monetary Affairs have a working plan where you can start by looking at how these things work out, how things fit together, how they can be dealt with at a reasonable time? Where's the mistake now? Sounds kind of funny. I understand that in the meantime, Jürgen Ligi was and wasn't, and you don't remember all the things, and the two mysterious Chefs were in the process of cooking this soup. It's all a very interesting intellectual discussion, but maybe next time you could do better. Perhaps you can take this information to the Commission and the Commission can put things in place so that this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U330	Thank you. Well, on a follow-up basis, we were guided by this principle that issues relating to the national procedure for the implementation of the ESM could be in force at the moment when ratification of the amendment of the Treaty enters into force. We took the view that the 479 SE should have been ratified by us in this Chamber before the end of the year. We were also in a coercive situation because the Government of the Republic initiated this draft only on 8 November. So the Commission also had much less time than we are all used to working on drafts here in the committees. When we put all these nuances together, we came up with a situation where, on the one hand, we want to comply with international agreements, but, on the other hand, we want us not to have a situation where the law has been passed again, but there are no implementing acts. And thirdly, I think that the Commission too wanted to do its work as well as possible and reach the hall as soon as possible. Since there was no major controversy in the Commission on this issue and there were no amendments, it gave us the courage to propose that these issues be discussed in parallel. Maybe on Wednesday, both 479 SE and 480 SE are both on the agenda, but this assumed that on Monday, or today, we had to discuss an additional 480 SE in order to arrive at a parallel adoption of both drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U331	Thank you. Looks like we've run out of questions, and the procedure has given in for a moment. We can go to the negotiations. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U332	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous debate on the procedure repeatedly referred to the fact that this draft act is a co-object of amending the ESM Treaty to be decided on Wednesday, which specifies the national procedure relating to the ESM. However, the draft is not of minor importance because it clarifies the ESM's operating mechanisms and specifies how we will be required to provide guarantees. For my part, I congratulate those Member States that did not go to the euro zone because they are engaged in an independent monetary policy and are not bound by the current dangerous ESM mechanism and do not need to discuss new developments in this instrument. The sleep of the central banks of these countries is calmer because they do not have to think about when the loans of some Greek or Italian banks will go sour because of corruption, stupidity or simply because of the "one-size-fits-all" policy of the European Central Bank. The fall of a corrupt Italian bank could lead to huge sums being demanded from Estonia. If there is a conflict with the European Treaties, there will be no failure to do anything about it. In the grey zone, it has been possible to mix water before and not to carry out the activities allowed by the Treaties on the European Union. After all, the power to lay down special rules is a special type of sovereignty. The true sovereign is the one who sets his own rules in the grey zone. Then we will see the face of this true sovereign quite shriveled. If there is an emergency situation, special rules, the grey zone is controlled, then we will see the face of a true sovereign. I'm reminding you of the history of the ESM and how close it was to putting it into effect for us here. I mean, in the Supreme Court, the decision authorising the accession to the ESM only went through with a one-vote majority, the former Minister of the Reform Party, the then President of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask. I will add further arguments to reflect the essence of the ESM from the 2012 constitutional review procedure. On 12 March 2012, the Chancellor of Justice referred to the Supreme Court with a request to declare several articles of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, signed in 2012, incompatible with the Constitution, the principle of parliamentary democracy and § 65 of the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice found that the benefits of the ESM for the financial stability of the euro area do not outweigh the very intense interference with the principles of parliamentary democracy and parliamentary reservation and the budgetary powers of the Riigikogu. Dr. Anneli Albi, a deserving lecturer of European Union law, was also extremely critical of the constitutionality of the ESM in the United Kingdom. Anneli Albi found that the financial commitments made through the ESM are irreversible and unconditional. In his view, the wording of such an agreement was unprecedented. According to Albi, this was an exceptionally large financial commitment, which can be increased without a maximum limit, and it gives an irreversibly important part of the independence of the Estonian state when joining the ESM. This reminds me of the article I have just read about banking beads, who will introduce themselves as bank workers, police detectives, still in order to get your personal identification number and bank codes and clear your account. Sovereignty is in the same way. Give away your constitutional keys and codes to the ESM magicians far away in Frankfurt. Then life will be beautiful. Still so that Greek pensioners receive multiple pensions...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U333	Anti, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U334	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U335	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U336	... that they would receive their retirement guarantees, multiple retirement guarantees. As I recall, Jürgen Ligi even gave interest to Greeks because their pensioners have a difficult life. We don't need those interest rates, we don't. And what else do we guarantee? New junk loans in some European winding-up banks. Very important action! If necessary, we need to draw this money out of the air somewhere in a flash, really, because this money is not provided for in the Estonian state budget or in our reserves. If a real junk bank decides to go down for good, where do we find the money? They could take over a billion from us. Where do we find the money? Where are we going to beg? Is it the IMF to pay off the junk loans from an Italian junk bank? It's a financial bomb, a long-term financial bomb. Sooner or later, a Greek or Italian bank will go bankrupt and there will be a domino effect, and we will be required to do so. So maybe it's a fatal contract. We don't know yet, but in order to be a fateful treaty, it has all the prerequisites. The emergence of a large-scale payment obligation of the Republic of Estonia through the ESM is not merely theoretical [option]. Many economic experts consider it likely that aid packages will be needed for large countries, which would mean large claims against Estonia. As a result of these circumstances, the EKRE Group proposes to suspend the second reading. The proposal for interruption has already been sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U337	Jürgen Ligi, would you like a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U338	Yeah, I wouldn't want to, but my name was called. I can assure you that I do not know where the previous speaker's interest is, I have not taken them to Greece. Don't give me that shit. But in general, I would like to reach a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U339	Negotiation first. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U340	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues and people who later read this verbatim or watch this video! At this point, I want to start by apologizing to all my colleagues for being all human. The fact that this situation arose in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is a bit surprising. Rather, it would perhaps remind you of the education and culture committee of some local government that has gone somewhere in the kindergarten and afterwards say that we did not really remember that 16 parts were needed in that wardrobe, but if you say so, that is the case. Classic! They're wrong, and then we'll take a simple conclusion that Oskar Luts told us in the words of teacher Lauri that if you don't get the whole thing done, the side of the road. We understood that since two drafts had been tabled, the ambassadors were deliberately misled. The ambassadors were also misled by the fact that everything has already been agreed, and nothing is [to be done]. I believe in Dmitri because Dmitri's good tall, but Vale-Dmitri and the lie have short legs. But Dmitri's present moment was dignified, and he didn't accuse the officials of being deliberately misled, but it was philigranally made. After all, it was said that the task would be to do this quickly by 1 January. There are very few abbreviations, stellar combinations, to which every person in his committee says: oh! It's Europe-wide, and it already knows. The Member of the European Union Affairs Committee has quite a lot of them, and the ESM is not as unknown to me at all, all the more so than looking at what is happening elsewhere. Right now, you might as well get the impression that the debates are still going on and maybe in January it's going to be a serious discussion. But we have Estonia simply picks up the information it has given us and makes us yell, and the whole of Europe will be left to look foolishly at what Estonia has now banged. But Estonia is looking for this direction. I think that the direction is wrong at this point in time if we do not wait for the processes taking place in Europe. We're always busy with some things, and we have a lot of time with some things. It was only here that there was a bill that said that three years had already been dealt with. No one wants to believe that 68 billion should be processed in the Riigikogu for less than one month. 16. It was submitted to Parliament on [November]. And that's how it gets knocked out on Wednesday, December 15th. Another strange thing is if you people are watching it and watching it. I'm the one who identified the identity theft here right now. I talked to someone I knew about how this was possible, and he said it was like an e-voice, you realize you're voting like you're voting, but they go in the pot. I don't want to agree with that. But is there a problem with the protocol, is it a mistake that it was the revolver holidays, November 7, that it immediately pulled blackout"? It is doubtful, and in order for the Committee on Monetary Affairs and our Ministry of Finance to be able to exit clean, perhaps, this was a mess. Maybe in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, things were all so brilliantly good that everyone was in one of those pleasant fluidations that wow, there's nothing going on here. We can see that there were still questions here at this point. Sixty-eight billion fast-track less than one month, while no one understands what happened. I don't know, maybe it was affected. I remember a citizen also said he had gone to an election debate, but then he was affected and he couldn't say anything. Although the election debate does not take place 365 days a year. I believe that my ladies and gentlemen, colleagues in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, have been put on ugly fire. And I don't know what it's like: you can only break the opposition, but the coalition is complicated at this point. It will be a symbolic vote, so the Fatherland will support the removal of this draft [reading] in exactly the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U341	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U342	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, however, there has now been unnecessary or unjustified confusion in previous debates and speeches. But let's briefly recall the history of the ESM. 2007/2008 was a global financial crisis, followed by a debt crisis in the euro area. Indeed, it was not until the crisis that a common resolution capacity was created. But it was clear at the time that, acting separately, not all Member States were able to stabilise the financial system. If you remember, several euro area countries lost market confidence, were unable to obtain funding themselves and needed external assistance for the functioning of the financial system. The ESM was created as an aid mechanism. The programmes have ended today and the programmes have ended effectively. Finally, in 2018, Greece exited the aid programme. But there were still many other countries that benefited from the ESM, and this managed to overcome the debt crisis. I admit, of course, that the European Central Bank's asset purchase programmes also played a major role. But still, the ESM had a very big role to play and this task was fulfilled. The debt crisis was overcome, that is a fact. It cannot be that, when we are in the euro zone, we only use the benefits. I don't know how much we took last year's loan, 2 billion or 2.5 billion, which was exactly what it was. On such favourable terms and at low interest rates, Estonia would hardly have succeeded if it had not been a member of the euro zone. But something must also be given back, and our contribution is definitely to the ESM. The current draft [content] is a reform of the ESM. As we know, in autumn 2014, the supervision of systemically important banks in the euro area went under single supervision and in 2016 resolution was under single resolution. The content of the current draft is the provision of protection measures for euro area countries for the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) of the Banking Union, which is responsible for supporting the functioning of the SRM. In addition, the draft also updates the ESM support tools and extends the role of the ESM in resolution. The size of the ESM will not change with the reform. So this is a necessary thing and the Reform Party Group will certainly support the completion of the second reading of this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U343	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will now examine the amendments that have been tabled on this draft. They've made exactly one. This is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and is fully taken into account. So we have accepted the amendments. And although the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft, we have been asked to interrupt the second reading of the 480 SE, and we need to vote it through. Honourable Riigikogu, I would remind you that we are discussing the draft law amending the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic 480. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to interrupt its second reading. I therefore put to the vote before you the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U344	The proposal was supported by 23 members of the Riigikogu, 46 against. The proposal was not supported. Therefore, we have completed the second reading of the draft 480.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U345	Our third item is the inquiry into the procurement of rapid tests by the Ministry of Education and Research, submitted on 8 November by the members of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Heiki Hepner, Priit Sibula, Andres Metsoja, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Aivar Koka, Üllar Saaremäe, Sven Sester, Mikhail Lotman and Urmas Reinsalu. The inquiry has been submitted to Auditor General Janar Holm, but it is now to be introduced by Helir-Valdor Seeder on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U346	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Auditor General, Members of the Isamaa Group are concerned, and we have asked the Auditor General precisely because we have not received satisfactory answers to our questions concerning the procurement of urgent tests at the Ministry of Education and Research through written questions, enquiries and Question Time. Indeed, we are talking about this procurement, which was carried out in the form of a negotiated procedure with a value of EUR 5132000. We're talking about buying fast tests from Selfdiagnostics OÜ. There has been a great deal of talk about this in this Chamber, and very much in the media, that, in an incomprehensible way, the procurement was carried out in such a way that very many entrepreneurs, very many companies that could have participated in the procurement and could have supplied the corresponding quality and [necessary] amount of rapid tests, were excluded and could not participate in this procurement. As has been shown afterwards, the price at which the tests were purchased was largely above the market price. By its very nature, it is absolutely not in line with the objectives set out in the Public Procurement Act for the sustainable conversion of public money, taxpayers' money, and for procurement to be conducted in a transparent and understandable manner, so that it can be understood by both businesses and taxpayers. But I would also ask the Auditor General to focus on the whole process and the time it took to carry out the procurement. In fact, the main reason for the officials was that there was finally ten minutes to make the decisions. However, we know that on 2 March the scientific council proposed that students be tested at school. The opposition parties and several members of the Riigikogu also proposed already in the spring to start mass testing in schools, as this would limit the spread of infection. So, what's behind the stump that cancer's hiding? From the beginning of March, even by September, no tests were obtained by the beginning of the school year and no tests were obtained through the normal process, but had to be carried out late in November. And apparently, as we know, the officials had ten minutes to decide. To be honest, it has not been understood whether anyone is responsible for who is responsible, who is responsible, and if there is anyone responsible, how is responsible. All we know is that the test officer got a bonus. For what and how this is completely incomprehensible. It also worries us that mistakes have not been learned, but that the Ministry of Education and Research has also announced a second procurement procedure, in the same way as a negotiated procedure, where even the cheapest bidder was not chosen, this is a separate issue, whether the cheapest bidder should always be chosen, but also whether there have been problems in carrying out this procurement. I quote from the Minister for Education and Research, here on the floor, why this second procurement was carried out in the same way. "And then Selfdiagnostics actually wrote to the Ministry of Social Affairs and also to the Health Board in the first half of October and announced that their tests had been tested in schools, and called on the country to use more rapid tests at all. This letter was also sent by Mari-Anne Härma to Mario Kadastik, that you see, here is a company that has tested its tests in schools. So it was also our knowledge that this is a company where children are actually piloted to use them." Is this a sufficient argument after such failed fast-test procurement that the Ministry of Education and Research conducts another procurement based on a letter from one company? We have asked four questions and we hope that the Auditor General will respond to these questions and perhaps to questions on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U347	Auditor General Janar Holm is now welcome to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U348	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since now, in the last month and a half, the Ministry of Education and Research has received a lot of detailed information on the procurement of rapid antigen tests by both the Riigikogu and the public, I am not going to recount the whole story. I will focus on the questions that have been put to me by the Members of the Fatherland Group on the basis of the information known at the time on 8 November. In the meantime, as has been pointed out, new procurements have taken place, but I am not dealing with them thoroughly today. I am based on the explanations and written material provided by the officials of the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board. I'm also trying to sum up what we have to put back behind this case. Question one. To date, the Health Board has started a monitoring procedure for Selfdiagnostics OÜ. According to the Health Board, the reasons relate to the lack of instructions in Estonian and to the manual prepared by Selfdiagnostics OÜ itself. Did HTM make every effort to prevent these problems when carrying out the procurement? I'll get it. In the contract with the company, the requirement of the Ministry of Education and Research is that the instructions for the use of the tests must be drawn up with a view to the normal user and that the information on the packaging and the instructions for use must be fully translated into Estonian. The contract also included a requirement for video training in Estonian and Russian to use the rapid test. Test manuals were sent by the Ministry of Education and Research to all schools and local authorities by e-mail. According to the officials of the Ministry of Education and Research, they also looked at the packaging samples. However, it is undoubtedly the task of the Ministry of Education and Research as the contracting authority to make sure that he has received what he has obtained. A separate issue is whether the Ministry of Education can be expected to know in detail what exactly one or the other user manual must be from the specific view of the Health Board. Question two. The Ministry of Education and Research has argued that the selected company had previously carried out a pilot project for rapid testing at school, which was why it had to be preferred. Does such an explanation arise in view of the fact that over the last year and a half, various hospitals, educational institutions and public authorities have ordered urgent tests by tender from a number of different companies? I'll get it. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, participation in a pilot project cannot be a criterion for determining which companies selling rapid tests to take the preferred offer from. It is important that an undertaking is able to offer goods that meet the requirements of the procurement and that it is also able to rely on other terms and conditions provided by the contracting authority, such as the time frame. If the experience of participating in a pilot project were to be made a prerequisite for participation in the procurement, the general principle of effective exploitation of competition, highlighted by the Public Procurement Act, would not have been respected. In this case, other providers of rapid antigen testing are also known to be present on the Estonian market. Linking participation in a pilot project to a procurement would exclude tenderers who did not have the opportunity or information to participate in a pilot project. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education and Research had too much thought about the fact that they had known a company that had previously tested rapid tests in cooperation with schools, and the offer was only taken from this company. The Ministry of Education confirmed in the debate on the allocation of funds to the government that they have a solution and are ready to act. I believe that, given the large amount and period of procurement, competitive offers should have been taken from the market and could have been taken from it, and not seen as a solution for narrowly addressing only one company, even under time pressure. I would like to emphasise once again that this is not about acquiring something unique, but about rapid tests by different companies on the market. However, it should be taken into account, of course, that although there are several companies on the market, all the tests they offer may not be suitable for self-testing by school age and the reliability of all tests may not be the same. The question is once again how the Ministry of Education could quickly have known who else to ask for offers. The Health Board has assured us, the National Audit Office, that they did not have a formal overview of the importers of self-tests at the time of the procurement. However, the business community would probably have become the data of companies operating in the market, but the Ministry of Education did not think of this. Question three. The media have shown that the cost of the rapid tests per test has been EUR 1.35.1.5 per piece. However, the transaction with Selfdiagnostics OÜ was expected to cost 2.5 euros for the test. Has HTM acted in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and ensured fair competition and transparency in the procurement process and the cost-effective use of guaranteed taxpayers' money? I'll get it. A final assessment of whether the Ministry of Education and Research has acted in accordance with the Public Procurement Act can be made during the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. I would point out that, since the Ministry of Education and Research did not ask for competitive offers, it is not possible to know for sure which offers could have been made by other operators under the conditions laid down by the Ministry. The contract ordered rapid antigen tests with the delivery of tests to schools. In addition, video training was ordered from the company together with video training materials. A total of 2 million tests were ordered and the total cost of the contract, including delivery and video training, is just over €5.1 million. The Ministry of Education and Research organised a procurement procedure, as indicated, using a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice. The use of this type of procedure is very exceptional and must be justified by the extreme urgency of unforeseen events. The Ministry has referred to the increased spread of the virus and the tense timetable of the National Audit Office to justify the choice of type of procedure. Both justifications may be relevant in the real situation surrounding a particular procurement, but point to a wider problem in the implementation of measures to overcome the health crisis. The maintenance of contact training has been one of the objectives of the document already approved by the Government of the Republic in April. Its title is "Social Life Management Plan under the conditions of spread of the Corona virus'. In this context, the document sets out, as one measure, the rapid tests of schools, which had to be implemented in 2021. It is reasonable to assume that preparations have been made for the implementation of this measure, that the market has been examined, that an overview has been obtained of which bidders are on the market, etc. According to the explanations provided by the officials, the rapid testing of schools has been discussed this summer and autumn. For example, the Director-General of the Health Board has sent an e-mail to the Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research in August. I believe that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board and the Ministry of Education and Research, when planning more carefully, the urgency of the procurement and the over-the-counter behaviour that arose in the final phase would have been avoidable. In those circumstances, in which there was indeed an element of unforeseen events at that moment and in which this call was finally carried out, urgency was no longer avoidable. However, only one company could have been prevented from asking for an offer. And the last question. The Evening Paper has pointed out that after requesting information, the Ministry of Education and Research sent them a contract, most of which is covered by a business secret. What is the National Audit Office's assessment of the Ministry of Education and Research's decision not to share the details related to obtaining rapid tests? I'll get it. In particular, information of a commercial or technical nature which is not publicly available and which is kept secret by an economic operator is commercially confidential because it is detrimental to the commercial interests of an economic operator if it becomes known to others without justification. In practice, public contracts may contain information that is a business secret, such as detailed technical specifications of the product, cost accounting, unit costs in certain cases, etc. On the other hand, public procurement must ensure both fair competition and transparency in the use of public money. This principle must be taken into account when drawing up the contract and must also be communicated to the tenderers during the procurement procedure. The subject-matter of the contract, i.e. what is procured, the description of the contract with its value and the delivery deadlines cannot be fully covered by reference to commercial secrecy. Having examined the contract, I consider that the fact that the chapters of the contract relating to the subject matter, value and quality of the contract were covered, referring to business secrecy, was not justified. To sum it up. This whole rapid test procurement saga shows once again how important it is to precisely fix and agree who is responsible for what. In this case, the Ministry of Education and Research took the initiative to deal with procurement in an area where they did not have the necessary specific knowledge. As a result, the Ministry made mistakes, under time pressure, but achieved results. The Ministry of Education, in turn, came into this situation because the Ministry of Social Affairs, which together with the Health Board of its sub-office has the relevant sector knowledge, did not achieve the necessary results in the proposed timeframe. This was revealed to the Ministry of Education at the last minute, and then the Ministry did what could be done and did it the way it was. It would be logical to assume that in such a specific area, procurement or, at least, provision is made by a specification authority with the relevant competence. The communication that the National Audit Office had with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs sometimes gives the impression that the authorities involved understood differently what the government had ultimately decided and what one or the other authority had to do in this light. I have repeatedly pointed out this problem in various letters as well as in the Annual Report of the National Audit Office to Parliament. That is why it is important to acknowledge that, in addition to being as clear as possible as what was decided and why, each decision would also be the person responsible for the execution of the decision. This responsible person must also have the appropriate knowledge and skills to minimise errors. The main thing, however, is that the result will be achieved. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U349	Good Auditor General, there are questions for you. Aivar Chef begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U350	Good manager! Good Janar! First of all, I want to thank you for your very meaningful answers. But I do have more and more understanding every day that someone is allowed something and nobody is allowed. It's easy to throw 5 million into the wind. If the Health Department says he didn't know, I can tell you there's such a thing as the medical records. This is not an obligation, but most of the importers register their tests there, and then there are a lot of those who sell on. These numbers aren't one-two, they're hundreds. And now to claim that the Ministry of Education, when the minister personally demanded at a government hearing, as he replied here a few weeks ago, that he himself conducts this [procurement] with his ministry, and took practically only one offer that did not meet the requirements, how do you, as the Auditor General, see it? In my opinion, this is a flagrant violation of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U351	Thank you. As I have also pointed out in my reply, we see that, in accordance with § 2 (1) of the Public Procurement Act, equal treatment of persons and effective use of competition in public procurement must be ensured by means of public procurement. The fact that the offer was taken from only one undertaking is certainly not in line with the law in this respect and, as I referred to in my reply, the fact that pilot projects have been carried out in schools cannot, in our view, certainly be the basis for the choice that should be given to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U352	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U353	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! Thank you very much for my meaningful answers too. I'd like to sum up that your assessment of this procurement was quite destructive. I would rather say that, if it is not followed by a specific reaction, it is a very bad precedent for many public procurement institutions, institutions, for example, municipalities, where the message would be that we are stalling, stalling, stalling for as long as we are suffering, then let us say that we no longer have time. And in every area of life, we can reach out to where we should be dealing as if in an extraordinary hurry. If you don't get ready in six months, it's the reason you're looking for. How do you see what message we should give to other public procurement institutions in this example?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U354	Thank you. The procedure chosen must obviously be exceptional and, as far as I know, it has actually been almost not the procedure used. The dangers you referred to in order to leave some decisions to the last moment and then bring it as a reason for the procurement, that is certainly a risk. But I also think, knowing that the Ministry of Finance is now making such a larger review, that this is where, in the course of this supervision, a very clear message must be given, under which exactly the procedure can be used, which is extraordinary, which is actually urgent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U355	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U356	Thank you, dear Auditor General. I, too, thank you for these meaningful and honest answers. The Minister of Education and Science has been to the Special Committee against Corruption on this subject, and also a week ago, to answer a question in this Chamber, and I am astonished by one fact in his narrative. He says that if the choice of this procedure was even wrong, it is nothing, it is a lesson for all, and everyone can rely on [the principle] in the future, if I quote correctly: "We pay the fine and move on with our lives! " As far as I know, the legal person, in this case the Ministry, is fined EUR 32000. How do you feel about the Minister's message that it's okay? In addition, during the course of the year, those entrepreneurs who have lost this procurement will be able to file a claim for damages to the Estonian state. The minister didn't say it was okay, a lesson for everyone, but he said it was fine. How do you feel about this government member's statement that it's okay, we pay the fine, we move on?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U357	Thank you. Unfortunately, I can't comment on how the minister answered you whether he said it was okay or not. I don't know, so I can't say anything about it. But what's going on... What was the other half of that question, I'm sorry? [[The floor shall be specified.]] Yes, I mean, there are a number of objectives in procurement. As I also referred to Article 2 (1) of the Public Procurement Act, one reason is equal treatment and competition. That's one question. EUR 5 million is certainly a very large amount of money, which gives one company a huge opportunity in this area. I therefore think that it is simply a matter of principle that everyone should be given the opportunity to make an offer. And I believe it is now difficult to control because offers were not taken, but I believe that there is always hope in the competitive environment that the price will be more favourable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U358	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U359	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, Indeed, as Heiki Hepner pointed out, this may prove to be a poor precedent. I do not exclude at all that such a provision should exist, especially in military pre-crisis situations, when it is once again necessary to obtain ten kilometres of barbed wire as a matter of urgency. It's already pushing the mass across the border. But now these arguments that ten minutes had time. Didn't the sun rise the next day? Each office official must take three offers for pens and folders. And they had ten minutes to decide. Was this time pressure a convincing argument? In this way, you can really stretch and stretch and hurrah in the future make 40 million decisions, 100 million procurements.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U360	Thank you. The decision to start testing in schools from 1 November was made, but I am not in the role of assessing whether it was right or not. Looking at the fact that almost 1,000 positive tests came out of there in the first week, it seems that this was a sensible measure. The question is that indeed, as I said in my reply, in a situation where a decision had been made to start on Monday, indeed on Tuesday, when the government discussed it, it was not possible to implement the normal public procurement procedure from that point on. In this sense, of course, this was already an urgent situation. Now it is simply a question, which was also referred to in the question, of whether this could have been foreseen earlier. Yeah, we know it had been discussed. Could there have been a situation where in the summer it was thought that there might not be a need for these tests, there was no point in buying tests? Yes, I think that is also possible, but there could have been a great deal to be done, including assessing who is on the market and from whom to take offers. So I think there are a number of aspects to be taken into account in the assessment of the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U361	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U362	Thank you, Mr President. Good Auditor General! Your report made it sound like effectiveness was something that in the same way makes an assessment. Effectiveness was important, and therefore certain errors, errors, and errors had to be recorded. But the result at the time was important. Indeed, it makes you ask the other way around that you can always set such an impossible result and automatically write in a violation of the rules, because we say that the result is important. But the result is important in every context. Whether the Ministry of Social Affairs does this procurement or does the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Education and Research does the result in any case is expected. But the results, or those expectations, must be realistic, right? So my question to you is that we have a stock agency. Should we give this particular entity some privilege in situations where we actually have to meet any goals in rapid time pressure? Do you think that would be necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U363	No, I don't think so. I think that the existing public procurement law also allows for this method to be chosen sensibly in these situations. I'm sure there are moments like this, but they're very rare, where it can really happen that something is urgently needed. But they really are extremely rare. If you understand me this way that I say that what matters is effectiveness and then you can forget everything that's due to the law, it's not really my idea. I hope that the majority of public procurements will be effective and oriented towards this, but they also need to follow the letter of the law. I was simply referring to the fact that it seems that [the decision] to carry out the tests was a point and the results came from the discovery of positive tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U364	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U365	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I am very pleased that you must be the first person to mention this social life plan, the so-called white book, other than me, after spring. If you look at what happened in the third wave, if you had implemented the White Paper as you wanted, you could have predicted when you should start testing your children, when you can send your children to distance school, when you should recommend teleworking, when time limits are set for entertainment or catering services, for example. This resentment of unexpected and unknown restrictions would also have been avoidable. Do you see that this White Paper should actually have been implemented and would have allowed a number of concerns, in addition to this fast-track, bizarre test procurement, such as the sudden sending of schools to distance learning in Tallinn, to prevent and better manage society's expectations?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U366	Thank you. In my reply, there was a very specific reference to this document precisely because, in April 2021, this issue was already addressed, that it might probably be necessary to test students in 2021, so I will only refer to this document in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U367	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U368	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My question is who could be an impartial and independent supervisor. The Ministry of Finance does not seem to be [this at this point in time. If you look at the government at all, it's [so] another ministry can't do the same thing, and coalition partners are good friends. For my part, I would add this and I will ask a question here at the end. I call these things a question of faith. It is not a traditional question of religion, not even as a world view, but the need to distinguish itself from the previous government, and then, if there was a method that was perhaps not the religion that was today's government, it was deliberately ignored. How many such religious things or subtle human desires may have hindered rational thinking? Could that have been a sign of danger?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U369	Thank you. You asked about this independence or who is the evaluator in public procurement. The fact that it is the Ministry of Finance has been decided in this very hall some time ago by approving the Public Procurement Act. There it has been clearly emphasised that an extra-judicial practitioner in public procurement of misdemeanours is the Ministry of Finance. This is a legal obligation and it is imposed on them by the Riigikogu. I don't know what to say about a religious question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U370	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U371	Thank you. Thank you very much for your reply, Auditor General. Today, we know that the Ministry of Education and Research has also carried out a second procurement with open negotiations, i.e. has not carried out an open tender either. This, in my opinion, is very regrettable, but it was not the subject of this inquiry at the moment. You also referred to once that there should be an agreed division of labour and responsibility, and if we look now, there is a certain competence in the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research has shown its initiative here. If we remember getting masks, the government specifically entrusted the Minister of State Administration with the administration of the Ministry of Finance. All these procurements and the issue of corona have been dealt with by various ministries, in my opinion, in a systemically and dispersed manner, and this division of labour and responsibility is not in place. But, as far as you know, has the Ministry of Finance started some sort of supervision of this process or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U372	As far as I know, the Ministry of Finance is currently in the process of supervising procurement by the Ministry of Education and Research. I don't know exactly when it's gonna be done, but we have information that that's the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U373	Good Auditor General, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U374	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to the Auditor General, who came and gave me a very constructive and good overview of the process of the procurement of rapid tests at the Ministry of Education and Research. And frankly, it confirmed the questioners' doubts and reservations regarding the conduct of this procurement in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and good practice. I'm not going to go into the details here. There's been a lot of talk about them. I hope that we will receive a more detailed overview of these details from the Health Board, which has already started monitoring, and from the Ministry of Finance, which has not yet started, but hopefully will start monitoring. This is, on the one hand, a question of responsibility for the fact that I believe that the country has suffered damage. If we had carried out a transparent procurement under open competition, the price of the tests would have been significantly cheaper. This has been demonstrated by comparisons with other procurements carried out at the same time and with the possibilities to acquire these tests, and by subsequent procurements that the State itself has carried out has confirmed this. On the other hand, a fundamental approach that creates distrust and distrust for the whole process of making decisions such as the one that took place in this case. This main argument that time pressure was taken, that there was no time, is in fact not waterproof at all. Here, we must recognise very clearly that these were wrong governance decisions, political decisions that were not made in time by ministers and the government, actions that were not done in time, and this resulted in the end being the way we saw it, as fast as it really was. While already in March the Scientific Council proposed that it would be reasonable to start testing in schools, and the government itself came to the conclusion in April that it was likely to start testing, there was enough time in spring and summer, even if the virus outbreak subsided, to carry out preparatory work, to examine the market, to look at what the companies were, what the procurement conditions might be, etc., to announce the next wave, on the basis of the prepared materials, if necessary. It seems so trivial and so elementary, but collectively the government did not get to the point that even at the beginning of the academic year we did not start procurement and then we quickly did in November. And now we've repeated the same mistake with the second procurement. In my opinion, it cannot be that no one is responsible, and in the end, the official who should be responsible for this will receive a bonus in the ministry. This is seriously incomprehensible, and I hope that both the Health Board and the Ministry of Finance will find out the truth in this whole process. It is not only a question of looking for the guilty and responsible, but also of avoiding these mistakes in the future. So once again, I thank the Auditor General for these answers. I hope that they contributed to the fact that such mistakes will no longer be committed in the future and that we will act in accordance with the law and with good culture. So thank you, everyone! In any case, I can assure you that the Members of the Fatherland Group are trying to find out the final truth on this issue and also to get a clear answer from the Minister for Education and Science himself that such cases will not happen again in the future, and we would very much like to see who has been wrong here. I agree with Eduard, who said that the Minister for Education and Science said that it was not very wrong that the testing itself was justified, correct and necessary, and found out that nothing was very bad. But the damage to the state is likely to amount to millions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U375	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U376	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Auditor General, Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, thank the Auditor General for his thorough, honest and enlightening answers to many issues on my behalf, because there is a great deal of strangeness in this procurement. It is so strange that the Minister of Education and Research has already had to go to the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption, to answer questions in this Chamber, but there are still questions for members of the Riigikogu and there is still a lot of confusion. One of the things that seems to be most obsessed with everyone is how urgent and how inevitable this procurement was. European law, and also our law, says that such a direct contract with a single economic operator must be an exception which will only be used if, due to technical and time constraints due to extreme urgency, only one economic operator is able to perform the contract. The use of a procedure without prior publication shall have a causal link between the unforeseeable event and the extreme urgency. I do not understand and probably not very many understand what was an unforeseen event that happened before the end of October's school break, which required urgent action in ten minutes. No one's been able to tell us that so far. Yes, we all understand that testing was necessary. Testing showed quite a lot of leaders in different corners of Estonia, in different schools, but all this was already known in advance. As the Auditor General quite rightly quoted the White Paper to us, it was already known in spring that tests should begin. But nobody moved a thing. They waited until the last moment and then ran towards the first partner who had performed screening tests at a couple of schools. These tests aren't screening tests. These tests are the same as we all do at home, which children do at school, which many members of the Riigikogu do in their political groups' rooms, etc. This is nothing extraordinary; it is not some extraordinary medical product that no one else brings into Estonia. Why such a procedure was chosen is still incomprehensible. And, of course, the Minister's point of view is that this is a lesson for everyone, is a very exceptional, rare type of procedure, and we will all learn together how to make better use of it in the future. But the price is too high on this lesson, and I'm not talking about the fine that the Ministry will probably pay for the money they get from Mailis Reps, I don't know what kind of money. In fact, all entrepreneurs who feel they have suffered damage have the right to claim further damage from the Estonian state during the year. We can't imagine what it's all gonna be. And the transport issue that wasn't touched here today. We know that the contract involved transport costs, taking tests to schools. But apparently many of us noticed on the Ministry's and Minister's personal Facebook page on the same weekend before the school break ended, a report of successful moves to schools when the minister himself travelled, the Ministry's officials drove and took tests to schools because this partner was unable to do so in time. The minister in the Corruption Committee claimed that he did so in a personal car of his own time and that all ministerial officials had volunteered to work the weekend. Well, it doesn't work that way, ladies and gentlemen. There's a lot of questions left in the air. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance has started monitoring this issue. I very much hope that the respective authorities of the European Commission will also start monitoring, because it should have been not even an intra-Estonian procurement, it should have been a European procurement when we are talking about such large sums. So we probably can't put a point here, and apparently the Minister of Education and Research will have to look for more durable answers than he has found so far. Indeed, as a number of colleagues have already said here, so great things, so great sums of money must not be overlooked by the Riigikogu in a situation where we hold every kopika, including at the expense of public toilets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U377	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U378	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Head of the National Audit Office for the meaningful answers we rarely get to such questions. Eduard, I want to wish you strength and strength because, in fact, your committee is the only committee in the Riigikogu that can seriously deal with this issue. Today, we have heard very clearly from the Auditor General that there is a department in the Ministry of Finance who should actually monitor the conduct of public procurement. Let me give you an example. Many of us in this hall are also associated with the municipality. The snow came this year very unexpectedly. All municipalities could be advised not to tender better. On that day when the snow comes, make a deal in ten minutes, but on a longer, several years of snow-pushing purchases in millions. Nothing's gonna happen, because it's emergency. Five million with the first purchase! Okay, they say we wanted better, but it turned out the way we used to. A moment later, a new procurement in exactly the same way. And then, when I understood correctly the speech of the Auditor General, the Health Board said that there was no register. I honestly do not understand what is happening in Estonia. Register of medical devices. Take this off for now. At the moment, you will find 30 companies who have brought tests to Estonia and who offer them without looking for them. They're landers. Although it is optional, it is not mandatory to put [data] in that register. It's like some other test that women sometimes buy for themselves, making sure nothing's happened. [These importers] put their [tests] landing in exactly the same place. And then they say they didn't know I couldn't give them any more! It was offered to a company that, if you believe in the press, had made a pilot project in one school, not all over Estonia. Five million! When people say that it would have been possible to save two to three million out of there, [it is recalled that] we heard here the last month how the members of the Riigikogu were very bad, they each distributed 30,000 euros of roofing money, so-called regional investment money 2.7 million, which actually went to different regions of the country, small foundations, NGOs, village societies to develop and support local life. And the minister here just says that, well, it went the way it did. I don't understand it. I must admit that there are a lot of politicians in this Chamber who have been teased about small [amounts], EUR 10, EUR 20, EUR 30 in the press and all other institutions. We read about local government leaders and officials who have been deprived of jobs for violating public procurement law, criminal penalties and everything else. But at this point, the minister who, in his own speech here a few weeks ago, said that he himself strongly decided at a government meeting that the Ministry of Education would carry it out because others could not do it, others could not do it so quickly, did not take political responsibility. Perhaps in the Riigikogu and in the government we will have the right people who can do something, and there are other people across Estonia who have to follow the law. I myself have been chairman of the Economic Commission for Public Procurement Act [under the procedure] and have done the procedure in this Chamber, and the Committee for Economic Affairs has also received the best law of the year. While I did not see any option in this draft that such a moment could arise, that there were dozens and dozens of bidders on the market, the offer is taken from one company, which is not the leader of the market in terms of price and quality, but we see and hear that there are problems and that it is being monitored and that it is being checked whether everything was as it was supposed to be. And that's it! What kind of example do we set...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U379	Do you need more time? Mr. Chef, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U380	Yeah, let's take some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U381	Well, you've already gone over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U382	Yeah, but there's still time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U383	Well, it's not if I haven't given you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U384	Seven minutes out? Eight minutes out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U385	All right, then we'll give you three more minutes. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U386	Right. Thank you. In my opinion, mistakes must be recognised in such situations, on the one hand, and, on the other, we see that today's government is in a situation where all things are done half a year late. Anything. We heard the exact same story here before that our lower-paid and elderly people should be supported, and I remember that at the end of September or early October, this message came from the government that since September you can go to the municipality with your bills. In November, the Committee on Monetary Affairs was informed that there is no such opportunity in the law, and today we are hearing that perhaps by some date in January, this programme will also reach there to support. We are talking about small subsidies for people, and at the same time we are failing millions. The most painful thing was, frankly, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the third reading of the state budget, when a proposal for a correction was introduced that 7 million more needed to be allocated to the government reserve for the purchase of these same tests. The next ones could get so much more expensive they wouldn't cover it. I hope that everyone will learn from this unfinished work and this public procurement, and I hope that the Committee on Corruption will call out the Department of the Ministry of Finance, the Department of Public Procurement, and the Minister, and will actually get the answer, whether the law on public procurement was actually implemented or passed, and why it was passed. In my opinion, today the question remains why, if there was enough time to organise it properly and honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U387	I'm closing the negotiations. We have exhausted today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U388	But now it's possible for anyone who wants to sign up for a free microphone. Mr. Padar, please! Is it a Võro dragonfly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U389	Honourable vigilante! Honourable! Nigu ti ti tiät, then december i võro kõnõõlja. I'm going to go to the village of Tu võro kil om, sis täämbä ma knõõlü säätsed as'as i näi folk census kõiste ao, kus na omma olnuq and which, tied to the tuu võro's tongue, starsä om. Yeah, well, christmasq ommaq tulõki and all mi tiämi Christ's story, where Emperor Augustus tõrald Roman state Census to the tiedä saija which happened in the country. Tuu om sääne over 2,000 year agony thing. And in Estonia om, no mis mi tänämi, et vanõmb säändseq reviewq or censusq ommavaq kosk on 13th century Danish Hindämisbook, and from the 13th century onwards, iks ühõ ao takast egä valitõri ummi censusesq and auditionq tennyq. No kütõmi mo kodokülä, Navi külä oma ka adimäst kõda mainõte pääle 1632 tuu pääle, ku Rudsi kingi tõdä et ball"o tas rahha om. And, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Tuu kotus kos ärq fixittäs, ball"o us rahvas om, om actually December 31st tn. The Tuu om sis 2021 census. And from 28 December to 15 January, kos om a variety of lisäküümüüsiisi and the same thing was tried by the kos, whether there were any local language shapes, a break in the pile, answer yes the stake no. And there was an Estonian word for the sign: "Please indicate the local language form, dialect or dialect you can use. " To a banker's letter sis tu sameõ keelekujo, break the stake, mida sa tiäti. I'm gonna force the guy up to take the in-laws off the web questioner to the active part. And back I look so ball'o, that the sine analogilõ küsamine ol" also govä folk census kääl 2011, with pääle saimi teidä et võro kõnõlõjit om nearly 75000. Säändseq censusõ enlargementq and tiedäsaq, et miä in fact Eestin took place, with the ommaq army starsäq asiq. And with the power of force, these things of gold will be taken seriously. In the hands of Tulõ, 28th of December, fill in the tuu form ärq, olõ-iq tuu ball'o midägi tetä and spit praise kayak though. And sis mie disgusting boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo. And good luck with the tuna tinge! Thank you for the honorable colleagueq, et ärq kulõldiq!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U390	Leo Kunnas, please! Let's continue the võron tongue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U391	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, All right, folks, give us a heads-up! And a hooäq colleagueq! Ivaril oll't tett sääne kinä tüüt, i have not olõõ, a ku kiäki om est kõnõõja, sis piäp kiäki oliõma ka perräkõõja. And I knõõõ sis tuust, et mi täämbä sis küssemiq hyä pääministeriprovva or Kallas Kaja from perrä, midä sis Eesti om tenüq, et saasiq now Ukraine tukõq sjoo in crisis, and midä mi olõmiq tenüq, et sasiq more allies in the army of the Baltics, et võsiq vähä kimmämbäe hinnäst näst nätundq. Ukraine, niguq mi nämiq jo brought to the straw of the sjoo year, om Vinnemaa kor"anuq suureaõ põaväi Ukrainian border with bronze. And sääl om war käünü jo mitmit aastit, tuu war olõ olnuq with the power of hard, a egä nätäl om any Ukrainian soldier sanuq hit the rug kohnuq. And now the pelätäs, that may the great-city war, and the syäl käümä minnä. Om clear that Vinnemaa wanted to Ukrainian oliõssiq timä under the käpä, and Ukraine did not want sääl oleq, Ukraine will minnäq Eurupa Union and saiaq NATO liimõs. And tuu om sääne, both of them so answer so that each of you will clog up the matter. And now we've got our own national wrestling and elo läinuq rassõmba we've got your wand now. Midägi olõ-iq said that the war in Afghanistan, midä mi kävemi 20 years with the allyten allied, miä oll" NATO's fifth-century article on the sialinõ operation, the cami kill, pessä saimi, Taliban victory. And the wind that happened to Vinne päämiheq and Hiinä päämiheq or-ollamq didn't piäq the American päämiist Joe Biden, so the bumblebee in the man didn't want it, and the wind came to the wind that Hiinä or to think that I might have taken Taiwan's äräq, so I long wanted it. And Vinnemaa's thought is that I might now have been a big-ass tetä as one. And a tuu um tennüq we all have in the ello race. West Euruupa, now what has happened is that Germany is a power station and a coal stationq kiniq, sis kos täit saa. No Vinne from the gas. But whose hand is the tap? Gas tap on Putin's arm. Midä tuu letteräs? The peoples of Euruupa are not free by the power of the people of Sakslasõq and Tõsõq, that the people of Eluupa are not free by the power of Ölõq, which no first willvaq, no matter whether diplomaticly staked, everything is baljo rassõmb and tu tesõmma, that the NATO päs länõõmmaa with Vinnemaa tells helü that the egäts can't be umma hellü tetäq, sis midägiq üst tuud not tuulõq. Ukraine will not be able to decide so that Ukraine's frontq sääl will not olõq üten. And mi sälä takan can't es mi asjo ajaq. Tuuperäst om tärsä that Estonia now tees Latvia and Lithuania and brought the neighbouring countries gaq nigu Poland more üteh tüd et saasiq parõmbahe asaq tettüq. Just as mi piämiq üteh tegemä tüöd rohkõmb, et kus mi rohtõmb allied laisi sõaväkis siiä saas. And ku meil om midägiq lätläisi ja Lithuanianlasõgaq kokko põlet, sis om ball'o väljab midägiq tetäq. Tolly asa kotsilõ mi sis esitimigiq hääääle pääministeriprovva 12 küümüst and külht täs sis us on a thriving year. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-12-13_U392	All right, now we're talking about this whole trial thing that's over. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
