ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 9th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Riigikogu speech chair Heili Tõnisson, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U2	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Road Transport Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of State Administration in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U3	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good fellows! Now, let's go through the presence check. But before we do that, let's do a few, I think, however, some procedural questions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is recalled that on 9 November Parliament's plenary decided, for some reason, to support the proposal of the Reform Party Group to move to remote sessions in order to set an example for Estonian society and reduce contacts. This week, there are 15 Members of Parliament on foreign missions. What example does Parliament set exactly in this move that was decided at the time? Has it been discussed by the Bureau that it is time for meetings to be held again in a reasonable form on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U5	Thank you. The board has been discussing. First of all, November 26th, if I'm not wrong with the dates... I'm just gonna make sure I'm not wrong. Yes, I'm sorry, November 25th is the last day that we have a distance meeting, and after that, as we have talked to the members of the board, the contact sessions will automatically regenerate. Next week, on the basis of the pandemic situation, we could discuss once again how to proceed next week. Have we discussed the number of foreign missions in particular? No, it's not, but foreign missions are all going through the board meeting. More procedural questions, please. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U6	Thank you, Mr President. I wouldn't have asked you otherwise, but you said "please yet" well, I can't miss the opportunity. I come to the question of my honourable colleague, Priit Sibula, because it is actually very profound. We're going to a long-distance hearing to set an example. I also have a proposal from the Reform Party, on paper, I am not going to read it now because you have certainly looked at it and discussed it very thoroughly, but there are absolutely no constructive reasons other than that we are setting an example. Let's set an example! We still have work to do. But instead of doing the job, we're going to a long-distance hearing, and then we're going somewhere around the world to travel. It's not quite normal. If people can do what the information now is that 15 members of the Riigikogu are humping around the world, then we will not set an example of the need for work. I think we should end this, say, two-faced circus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U7	Thank you. The work will take the form of both sessions. However, as I said in reply to the questioner, this decision, which was in fact not a decision of the Bureau but a decision of the House, is valid until 25 November inclusive. Then we'll go to the contact session if the Bureau doesn't decide otherwise. Priit Onion, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U8	Thank you. I wanted to ask how the chairman then understood in the context of this example. Was it the aim of Members to reduce contacts and thus set an example? All the other people over the world and in Estonia can be met, but it is not reasonable to meet your colleagues in this Chamber and hold a parliamentary debate, is that, in your opinion, the example that you set for Parliament's plenary on this unfortunate occasion, on 9 November, decided?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U9	Thank you. As I recall, there were two reasons: one was that the situation in COVID-19 in Estonia is difficult and complicated and the other was that we really had the opportunity to do teleworking [and we have experience of implementing successful teleworking]. These were the main two [causes]. Oudekki Loone, please ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U10	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Based on previous speeches, do you think that the work of a member of the Riigikogu on foreign missions is also work or is it something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U11	As I said before: of course, it is also work. If there are foreign missions, this is definitely an important part of the work of members of the Riigikogu. Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U12	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I hear this kind of double morale going somewhere is okay, it's work, but sitting in the hall is dangerous, given our COVID situation. Has it not come to you, Mr President-in-Office, that the whole European korona policy and vaccination policy have failed completely? Let us look at what is happening in Austria, the Netherlands and other countries. There are mass protests because vaccination does not carry out its task, the disease continues to spread, but the disease does not have any effect that will cause people to fall off their feet and die by thousands. Why don't we just finish this whole coronal thing and go back to a normal life?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U13	Thank you. If this [your question] concerns the distance or contact session, then [I say] as I said before, on 25 November is the final distance sitting. It is true that the large hall of the Riigikogu, but also the special committee on the control of the state budget and the Social Affairs Committee have discussed the whole of the coronation, including vaccination, at the committee meeting several times and also in this large hall. Priit Onion, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question: can it happen that some of our colleagues have simply understood the term "dead work" differently and have gone far to work? I have never questioned the fact that people do not consider visits to work or that being on an external mission is not the work of Parliament. It's just that I got the impression that the purpose was to cut contacts and distancing. But it's not the same thing as teleworking. Secondly, I have a question: can I now put to the vote the proposal that we should start the contact sessions again tomorrow, i.e. we do not have to wait until 25 November?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U15	Thank you. First of all, you were talking about how you might get the impression that I don't know exactly what the 101 impressions we have here are, but it's clear that if we're at a distance session, we really have the opportunity to attend the hearing outside this Chamber. We know that a lot of people have been [outside the hall] for the past two weeks, some have also been here in Toompea Castle in their offices. Now, can you put it to a vote? As my first assessment, you cannot change this decision, it is the decision of the Bureau. If the Bureau does not find a consensus, it will always be happy to come to this Chamber as prescribed by the Court and the Rules of Procedure. Enn Frontland, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U16	Thank you very much. It is peculiar that we cling to those numbers that show the external missions of members of the Riigikogu. They work there, too. I'm in Tallinn. Perhaps, good speaker, you would specify, not to mention the names, how many of our colleagues currently have the only opportunity to participate in the hearing in the form of teleworking, so that we can ensure the day-to-day work of our Riigikogu. As far as I know, there are these people in all the factions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U17	Thank you, good questioner! I don't know the exact number, but according to my information, there really are members of the Riigikogu who can participate in the hearing from a distance, but unfortunately there is no more than one person to attend the contact session. Strong health and rapid improvement for them! Let us hope that this situation changes rapidly. There are no more requests for the floor. Now we will go to the specification and confirmation of the agenda, but before we do, we will jump back to the presence check and carry out the presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U18	86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Clarification and validation of the agenda. Point one, the Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to remove 23rd item from the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, the first reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid. We do not have the opportunity to speak at the moment. If you'd like a distance hearing... Whoa! Then you have to press your hand. Now there's another blade. Rock Hard, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U19	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. I'll take this opportunity and say it under the procedure. Indeed, the initiator has every opportunity to withdraw his draft at any time. And in this case, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I propose that we withdraw or rather withdraw draft 427. The reason is very simple. When we filed this bill, so that the electric excise would not rise during this difficult time, the government also became bitterly busy. We are delighted that the government has come quite far in its own affairs, and probably already this week we are making the decision here in the Riigikogu that we will not increase the electric excise duty. We take our bill back upside down and we dare to face all the people. But the coalition, when Kaja Kallas was appointed, said that there would be close cooperation with the opposition. I think it would be wise for the coalition ambassadors to look down for a moment and be ashamed that you are doing the same thing through the next door now, not supporting our draft. Perhaps our proposal is to remove this draft from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U20	Thank you. Kalvi Tough procedural question is this: The Social Democratic Party Group, together with Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid, has proposed to withdraw the draft 427 from the procedure. This concerns Tuesday 23 November and the sixth item on the agenda. Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U21	Thank you, Mr President. The working week's agenda is correctly presented on our tables. And on the Tuesday agenda of this working week two items have been submitted: the second, the draft "Proposal for Government to Prevent Illegal Migration," the proposal for Government, the draft decision 435, as well as the third item, the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic," and the draft decision 428. Someone, I suppose, has written a draft of the two decisions referred to in italics after the first reading "Voting of the composition of the Riigikogu." According to the Constitution, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is needed when we talk about proposals for draft laws for the government. Indeed, the majority in composition is called for by these proposals to the government to initiate a specific draft. That is why this reference is also under the legislative chapter of the Constitution. I, above all, can speak on behalf of the initiators, or the Fatherland Group, and we do not intend or say that the Riigikogu or the Government of the Republic should initiate any specific bill. When I look at the text of the draft decision by the Socialists, although I do not want to speak on their behalf in any way, I see nothing there either that the government should initiate a draft law. Consequently, in my opinion, they must be dealt with according to § 65 of the Constitution, which makes the law and initiates decisions by Riigikogu, not according to the chapter of this legislation, which says that it is necessary to bind the proposal for submitting the draft to the government by a majority of its members. The same principle of opinion is based on this yellow thick scripture, which we have drawn up, also says that such a linguistic interpretation of the constitution does not give rise to the assertion that they are bound by a majority of the composition. That is why, and, of course, I now have a point of 'procedural' nature concerning the approval of the agenda, a substantive debate on which qualified voting rule is required for this purpose, will come on the day on which this vote takes place. But in order not to be able to say then that we have approved the agenda and it was inside that a majority of the composition is necessary, I would ask the President of the sitting to remove this text in brackets in italics. I do not demand that we issue new texts on paper and distribute them, perhaps technically too bureaucratic, but the President of the sitting should say that a mistake has happened here. Since we also have here on the agenda of this week a proposal to initiate a bill for the government, this mistake has happened in the course of routine. So, specifically, the procedural proposal is that, in my opinion, on the second and third items on Tuesday, it has not been said in the law that the government should initiate a draft law, and since this has not been said, it cannot be required that Parliament adopt it by a majority of the Riigikogu or that this should be the threshold.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U22	Thank you. A few comments. Yes, you are right that if there is no amendment to the law and, as you say, this is not required, then the 51 votes, i.e. the majority of the membership, are not needed. It's been our practice to write that way. But in answer to the very understanding procedural question that you have asked, I say this: whether this agenda can be re-tabled, correctly presented, i.e. those brackets deleted or not, I promise that we will take care of it in the board tomorrow and review our practice, including whether or not the law needs to be amended. If that's acceptable to you, I'm grateful. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U23	Thank you. All solutions that are sensible and are moving towards the objective are, of course, worth supporting. Let me just make it clear: does this mean that all Members who put on the agenda, in their spirit, or mentally delete this line in italics, will vote on the agenda for the week in the knowledge that Parliament considers that, according to the constitutional interpretation, they do not require a majority in composition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U24	No, I think that still means that we are voting on the agenda for a working week that is currently being tabled here, with these brackets. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U25	Thank you, Mr President. As a result of Urmas Reitelmann's procedural question, as a layman, I would like an answer to the following question. The point is that § 54 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act tells us that the agenda for the next working week will be announced to the members of the Riigikogu by the end of the working week. The question is, how can we change the italics there? Before the agenda is adopted. Paragraph 55 (2) of the Law states that amendments may be made in the light of § 54 (3) and (4). Perhaps you can explain what can be changed in the third and fourth paragraphs that I referred to so procedurally? Or how can this agenda be changed in this form? Because there are different conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U26	Thank you. No, we're not changing that now. I answered the previous procedural question, "It stays here in the parentheses." And that is what I would like to say to you to clarify that Urmas Reitelmann has not asked the procedural question at the beginning of the session, but he may, of course, still ask, although I think you were thinking Urmas Reinsalu, not Urmas Reitelmann. Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U27	Yeah, I'm sure Mr. Reitelmann is alive and well, and he's monitoring the progress of the hearing. But the question now is this: I will, however, clarify it and ask, for clarity, how the President of the sitting [sees matters]. Because the point of the procedural question is to clarify the terms of conduct and the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Act. Is the understanding of the President of the sitting that these second and third points on Tuesday require a simple majority, not a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U28	In consultation with the Chancellery, I understand that these two voting rights on Tuesdays are subject to the majority of the members of the Riigikogu. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Then suddenly you and the office will find out what this is based on the law? Because I have now realised that since it is not required for the government to initiate a draft, it is as if it should not be implemented and § 65, first paragraph, or the first part, of the Constitution will apply. Why don't you give me a precise legal explanation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U30	Thank you. I am, at the moment, mostly relying on how we have shaped our practice in the past. On these issues, when a proposal has been made to the Government of the Republic, the practice has been that there has been a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Whether it requires a change of law or not, it may also become clear in the course of the government's proceedings. So we are very strongly relying here on previous work placements. Jürgen Ligi, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U31	Thank you. As the guardian of a bill, I will formulate it in the form of a question. We can also clarify this by tomorrow, but, Mr Ratas, is it not the case that, if the version of Urmas Reinsalu were to be correct, the current government and the previous government, in fact the previous government, would completely transfer Estonian schools to education in Estonian? Since the draft decision failed with a single vote, 50 votes were in favour, Urmas Reinsalu's party was not in favour. Then we'd be in a different situation. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U32	Thank you. No, I'm not going to dissect specific points here that have ever been or haven't been. But I'll stick to the interpretation I said. This is also said by the executive edition of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. In particular, it states: "However, all such decisions are usually based on the provisions of § 103 (2) of the PS and on the majority of the Riigikogu membership required for the adoption of the decision, i.e. at least 51 votes in favour. " It is said in chapter 19, page 484. Urmas Reinsalu, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U33	Thank you. But there were also two earlier passages in the Scriptures that the President of the sitting did not want to read out. I would ask the President of the sitting to read, since not everyone has this yellow book, from the outset, this comment, which also suggests that it must be interpreted under § 5 (1) of the Constitution and that there is no need for a majority in composition. Am I right to find such words in this scripture?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U34	Now, if you're asking me what was here earlier, of course I can read it to point 2, although I don't know how productive it is. But this is as follows: "The decision by which the Riigikogu proposes to the government to initiate a specific draft law requires a majority of the composition of the parliament to be adopted in accordance with § 103 (2). In the light of § 73 of the PS, a majority of the votes cast shall suffice for a decision containing other proposals. "And then comes the sentence that I said before, "The usual starting point..." So our practice has been based on that 51. A procedural question, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U35	Thank you, good Chairman. As a first Member of Parliament, I would ask that this be clarified. If we now come to the discussion of this point tomorrow and the board of directors happens to be convinced that it would require a majority, but later it turns out that there was no need for it, what should the Riigikogu do in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U36	Thank you. I cannot bring you all these statistics so quickly, but as far as I know, it has always been based on the fact that, if there is a proposal to the Government of the Republic, there is a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, which is 51 votes. Have there been other votes in the past? I owe you an answer here, and I can't answer you with 100% certainty. As far as I've been able to consult with a professional partner and think about this experience, I don't recall. We have really been based on the fact that if there is a proposal to the Government of the Republic, then there will automatically be a majority in the composition. Urmas Reinsalu, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Since we have already made reference to this quotation in the Rules of Procedure Act, I would stress that the Rules of Procedure Act, with that sentence which you did not read, says: "However, the rule laid down in Paragraph 103 (2) of the Rules of Procedure has traditionally been applied to all such decisions... " Now there is a question, and there are several examples of it earlier, too, whether the word "normally" means that, as the President of the sitting states, no proposal has ever been adopted by the government in a logic that has been interpreted as a simple majority. My next question is how to interpret Parliament's practice. Parliament's practice is clearly in defence of the rights of the author of the draft. And that's what I'm doing right now with this point when I'm looking into what the threshold is. I am not sorry, Jürgen, if we were to take the view that the transition to Estonian has now taken place a year ago. You see, kids are learning from old textbooks, but the transition has already taken place a year ago. I'm not sorry, Jürgen, to say that. We'll be happy with you. The question, however, is this, and it is important, I stress: your point was that perhaps, in the course of the work, the government could come to an understanding that it might be necessary to initiate some kind of draft law and therefore a majority of the composition would be necessary. But the bill can be initiated by the government on its own initiative; it does not have to do so on the basis that a political proposal has been made to resolve any issue. After all, the government can initiate draft laws at any moment, and so has all governments; there is nothing outrageous about it. That doesn't limit the government's rights. It would be that the government should only initiate drafts if it has been given a mandate to do so by a majority of its component members, but there is no such restriction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U38	Thank you. Now I understand your procedural question, at least in the first half. Am I saying it's always been done like this? Like I said, I'm not saying an absolute statement here. If that's what we want, we can take a break, I don't know how long, and start analyzing it all from 1991. I don't know how many hours it'll take, but we'll do it. But I don't think that makes any sense right now, and I don't think it's worth doing right now. As I said, as far as I know, there has been a very large rule that the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu has been based on the principle of the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. But I would already like to analyse this myself and I promise that we will do this analysis on whether it is based on the first part of the executive publication [of the sentence], which you have pointed out that some votes have also taken place by simple majority. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U39	Thank you. Now we have come back to the beginning, all this other debate was in vain. My question was to challenge that rule. Perhaps we said that this requires a simple majority in terms of our interpretation. And there's really no rule. It can be said that Parliament's practice or the current routine has been such that this is expected to be the case, in most cases. I'll admit it. But the question now is that we are contesting the purpose of this routine in the light of the logic of the Constitution. The same constitutional comment also gives these motives. Our proposal is to change these points now on the agenda and to remove the texts in italics, both in the second and third points on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U40	Yes, thank you! I will stick to my reply that our practice has generally been this: if there is a proposal to the Government of the Republic, then the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu has been taken into account. I do not have one hundred percent [to] give you today that this has always been the case and has not been based on the principle set out above in this executive publication, which you quoted. Now, since you have already asked how a member of the Riigikogu must then understand, if we approve or do not endorse it on the agenda, from the second and third items on Tuesday's agenda, then I say that my answer was and is also, at the moment, that: we must consider that this is the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Yes, this threshold is higher, I understand very clearly if there were a simple majority of the Riigikogu. So today we are on the basis of the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for agenda items 2 and 3. If this is challenged I think it will have to be discussed in any case, regardless of how this pile of procedural questions ends here today. Kalle Grünthal, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U41	Thank you, Mr President. I love your sincerity and your honesty when you talk about your high ground. The question is, at least this is how I have understood at the moment that we do not have the full certainty of how we vote and what the result will be. But I'll remind you that it's not just a question of doing this today, and then we'll argue later and see what happens next. In my opinion, there should still be absolutely 100% certainty here that we are not mistaken in our decisions, because, as I understand it, the Isamaa Group also has a relatively time-critical draft concerning the prevention of migration. Here, these political games cannot be left in the future, one way or the other, but should still be brought down immediately. My suggestion: maybe the clever collection will come together and try to solve this issue in half an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U42	Thank you. Well, I think this collection of smart guys is all 101 members, and I think it's with all sincerity. This is now going to be legally assessed, in addition to taking out an internship, as I said, in any case, this must be done. At the moment, I think we either have to agree or disagree. Of course, the votes are black and white in the sense that there is no intermediate possibility. At the moment, it is written, as I understand this draft agenda, as follows: if, on Tuesday, item No 2 or item No 3 does not receive 51 votes, this proposal will not be made to the government. Kalle Grünthal, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U43	Yes, I understand your point of view. But we are in a very interesting situation right now, and if this sort of tactic continues, then this approach is not correct. At the moment, however, it is a question of the security of the Estonian state, which in fact depends on the uncertainty of not 100% uncertain, but to some extent uncertain from a point of view, and we are based on some practice. There's supposed to be a specific outcome back here. Because it is not a question of whether we are taking over some European Union directive, but of our own security. And this approach should be avoided, so let's see what happens next.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U44	Thank you. In that sense, I didn't find out anything new about your procedural question. I'm looking at you, and I think there's definitely a need to pick up a legal assessment here, but I don't have it right now. There is also a need to look at the internship. The sense that I have is that this practice is so based on it. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U45	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good Chairman! My procedural question is that, if practice is more important now, does this mean that we are going to go to teleworking in the future simply on behalf of the group, not because some health indicators require it. The internship is now that one group is proposing, and if the coalition partner takes this into account, then teleworking is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U46	Thank you. Proposals can be made by different parties. But practice can't be the way it's proposed and that's it. There must be a reason or a reason. Did Priit Sibul say the exact date was correct and sufficient, or was it not? I understand there are different estimates. But you always have to explain why you have to go to a distance hearing. Good fellows! I propose that we now go to these two changes. One is the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which concerns the 23rd item on Wednesday, and the other is the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, which concerns the 6th item on Tuesday, 427 SE, which leaves this week's agenda. Together with these amendments, I shall put this agenda to the vote. Let's start preparing the vote. Urmas Reinsalu, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U47	Thank you. My proposal is to complement the two proposals that have been made here with the third proposal. And the third proposal is specific. That's what I've been referring to, and this whole half-hour controversy was completely chordish in that sense. My proposal is to adopt the agenda in the form it is, with these two additions, but also to remove from the second and third points the text in italics, in the first point from the fourth row and in the third point from the third row. I have a proposal to add this amendment to the package of amendments made by the President of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U48	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U49	Yeah, thanks! Our group does not agree with the amendment made by Mr Reinsalu. [[Voices in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U50	I'm gonna ask you for a minute to give a microphone to Urmas Reinsalu. I know there's no such uniform, but I hope my colleagues don't mind. I ask Urmas Reinsalu this question: will you continue to stick to your questions and my answers to the fact that the part in the brackets is inaccurate and must be eliminated? Will you stick to this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U51	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U52	Then I'll take the manager's break for a quarter hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U53	Good fellows! The break taken by the manager is over. The explanation of this procedural question, which was raised primarily by Urmas Reinsalu, is as follows: the Bureau gathered and discussed it, and the colleagues of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were also helpful. Our answer is as follows: it has been a work placement in the Riigikogu, which is based on the requirement of 51 votes when there is a proposal to the Government of the Republic. The Board of the Riigikogu has discussed whether to be 51 or not, even in the spring of last year. It has been found that there must be 51 votes. In addition, the executive edition of [the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu] should be reviewed, both by the first one you mentioned, by the central part I mentioned, and by the final phrase in point 2, which says this: "As these decisions are politically binding proposals [... ], justifies the requirement of at least 51 votes in relation to § 97 (1) of the PS, according to which the Riigikogu is able to express censure on the government by a majority of its composition. " So the Bureau discussed this and maintained that tomorrow's vote on the second and third points requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership. My sense is that it needs to be expanded in this way: when a government is proposed, the 51 votes are based on it. I shall begin the preparation of the voting on the agenda. I shall vote on the agenda for the 9th working week of the VI session of the Riigikogu, together with the two amendments mentioned above. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U54	The agenda has been adopted with the result of 63 votes against 11 and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U55	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law on the amendment of state fees, the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? We do not recommend opening negotiations, so we can go to preparing the final vote. I stress that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the bill as a law. I will put draft 443 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U56	Result: by 59, 20 against and no abstentions. Draft 443 Act on the amendment of state fees, civil procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U57	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. This is the third reading of the draft State Family Reconciliation Service Act 438 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I open negotiations and ask Priit Sibula, representative of the Group of the Isamaa Party, to the Riigikogu speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, All of this happened on a beautiful sunny day long before the sunrise reign began, when the subject of family mediation was discussed. This draft, which we have here today for the adoption of the third reading, is far from being made from the beauty of a long time. An example of how a sensible thing and an idea can become a terrible screw-up is on the table today. Although, true, the chairman of the committee must be commended that at least the original title of the law was supplemented and specified, it is now a national family agreement. Another nuance, in a slightly softer form and more sensiblely, children will also be involved in this procedure. However, as I said in the introduction, this draft is rather unreasonable. Why? Because this bill will result in more than 44 public officials who will carry out family mediation. Until now, in the Republic of Estonia, family mediation could be made since 1998, the Social Ministry's partner conciliators' association issued invitations, people worked out and, as it now turns out, the Social Insurance Board trained officials, the 44 officials who are now going to provide this service. According to the new law, the people who previously provided this service can no longer make a family agreement because the law regulates quite precisely what a family agreement is. In terminology, however, we already arrive at the fact that this is not a state law on family mediation, but rather a narrow parental agreement on parents' relationships with their children. The second problem I think is that so far people went looking for the possibility that if they did not get the agreement themselves, the specialist helped them and the agreement was concluded because it is obviously tragic, if two adult people cannot agree with each other themselves, and if there is help, it will be done, although I do not understand why it needs to be done in a national context, but now this reconciliation will be registered in a national register, in the future, for some reason, it is considered necessary. Even these things can be accepted, but I find it incomprehensible § 11, which speaks of special cases. If an international family reconciliation practice provides that those parties who are not equal in partnership are not to be reconciled in the context of an international family agreement, this service is not to be provided because only equal parties can be involved in family mediation. If there is violence or any other kind of relationship, it is clear that the parties are not equal in this respect and, consequently, that reconciliation cannot exist as such a service. In our own law, we have even described the entire section as "special cases," which I do not think makes sense. As I said, in the context of the hearing of children, this is more positive than the original wording. In my opinion, as has ever been the case with the adoption of the Child Protection Act, which I did not support, it does not make sense for children to make legal entities in this form. The kids are still part of the family. Especially in such tragic cases, when parents cannot make children choose between good and bad, right or wrong, it is tragic. In my opinion, children should be clearly involved only if this is not possible in any other form. But it's the other way around in this bill. These are the main reasons why the Fatherland does not support the adoption of this draft and calls on the other political groups not to support and adopt this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U59	Thank you very much. I ask you, now there is the Internet word for the representative of the Reform Party Group in Vilja Toomas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U60	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll ask for more time from the beginning, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U61	Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U62	Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike the previous speaker, I am delighted that the Riigikogu has reached the adoption of the National Family Conciliation Service Act. I hope that you will support this law and its adoption today. The adoption of the law came at the right time, since November is the month of the rights of the child. The day before yesterday, on 20 November, the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, was also fulfilled. The Republic of Estonia acceded to the Convention two years later, on 20 November 1991. When a parent's relationship breaks up and decides to break up, it is best for the child to do so peacefully and to think about how to set up his or her future life arrangements in such a way that both parents continue to exist in the child's life because, although the parents no longer live together, the child still has the right to the care and love of both parents. A child has the right to remain a child and to live happily ever after his parents break up. The parent is responsible not only for the well - being of his child but also for maintaining a good and developing relationship with the child. The end of the partnership challenges parents to create a different relationship with each other. Although the former spouse or partner is no longer a partner in a permanent relationship, he or she is still an important and indispensable parent to the child. Parents must take responsibility for the breakup, cooperate, and support their child in a new situation. Working through emotions related to divorce or separation will also help parents adapt to the new situation and start a new life. Regardless of whether the parents were previously married to each other or were living in a common-law relationship, the question of how to continue to organise the relationship between the parents and the child, where the child lives, who represents the child, etc. should be resolved. It is best for parents to be able to agree and cooperate peacefully on these matters. Unfortunately, this is not always possible, and the great emotions of separation stand in the way of such agreements. This is also clearly illustrated by the statistics, according to which some 4,000 applications are submitted to the court each year to resolve child-related issues, and above all are matters of maintenance, communication and custody. If the parents cannot reach an agreement on their own, it is advisable to contact a family mediator who will help in making future agreements and will support the parents on this journey. In order to ensure the well-being of children, it is important for parents to be able to enter into agreements on matters relating to the organisation of the child's life, both out of court and in early court proceedings. Therefore, the State Family Conciliation Act provides that family mediation is usually required before a court. There is no automatic channelling in cases of close relationship violence, as this would be contrary to the Istanbul Convention. This is to ensure that the child's well-being is better ensured and that the parents reach an agreement. Different studies and practices in other countries clearly show that reconciliation agreements are more likely to be respected as parents have the opportunity to agree on the details of the agreement themselves. The President of the Supreme Court and the Chancellor of Justice also support the use of family mediation in family disputes. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has stressed that the main focus in resolving parental disputes must be prevention and reconciliation, or mediation of child agreements. President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve has noted that the number of family matters to be settled in courts has exploded, in particular child-related disputes. In his view, the state should establish an out-of-court conciliation body for such cases. Currently, there is no such legally binding and publicly supported system. Villu Kõve points out that any questions that arise in relation to children after the break-up should be resolved and confirmed without a trial. Finally. The child's interests must always be at the heart of decisions concerning the child. A child must not be put in a position where he or she has to choose between one parent or another because he or she loves them both. In making decisions concerning children, children, regardless of their age, must also be given the opportunity to be heard. You need to be honest with your child, and your child must be involved in making decisions about him or her. Last week a conference was held with the title "How do you live, child of Estonia?'. At the conference, both child psychologists and children themselves stressed that children should be involved in decisions concerning their lives. Children must not be left out in decision-making and should be explained to them. This should be done in an appropriate manner, taking into account the age and level of development of the child, but should not be omitted. I call on all of you to support the national law on family mediation and to adopt it as a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U63	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 438. I will put draft 438 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U64	Result: by 55, against 6, no abstentions. Draft State Family Reconciliation Act 438 initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U65	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. Overview of the stability support provided by the European Stability Mechanism and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Stability Mechanism. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimitud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In this annual report, I can reaffirm that the ESM is in order and will be able to celebrate the tenth year of operation next year. At present, the ESM does not have any support programmes in its active phase and does not have any new ones in sight. The Cyprus, Spain and Greece programmes are in the post-programme monitoring phase and have not identified any risks that would put at risk the ability of these countries to repay the loans taken. Spain, which has already repaid quite a significant part of its loan early, will continue with scheduled repayments for the following year and will also start with Cypriot repayments in 2025. The repayment of the Greek ESM loan starts in 2034 but the EFSF loan, as we know, will be repaid by Greece from 2023. In addition to monitoring and regular financing activities in programme countries, amendments to the ESM Agreement have been seriously addressed at EU level in recent years and are planned to implement these reforms. These additions to the ESM Treaty will allow us to discuss more closely with you on Wednesday when I am before you with the ratification of the amendments to the ESM Treaty. The ESM has retained higher ratings, has valued and entrusted the financial market participant's profits, yet we continue to channel it to reserves, and there is no provision at present for this policy to change. The reserve fund has now accumulated over EUR 3 billion. The ESM fulfils this objective, which was set up, and will certainly contribute to ensuring financial stability in the euro area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U67	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions. Thank you. It is now the case that, as provided for in § 155 of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the political group representatives can make speeches. I open negotiations and ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, representative of the Central Party Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a good overview. The European Stability Mechanism, which began with the 2008 financial crisis and was established in 2012, with the task of stabilising the economies of the euro area countries and the euro area as a whole in crisis situations, has successfully played its role. As pointed out in the report, Spain, Cyprus and Greece have been given an active part of the ESM support programmes and are in the post-programme monitoring phase. In this respect, the financial results of the ESM in previous years have been positive and the volume of reserves has increased by more than EUR 3 billion at the expense of profits. The contribution of the Estonian Government and the finance ministers who, according to the post, have been members of the Board of Governors of the highest body of the ESM has certainly been involved in this. Since autumn 2014, the supervision of key banks has become part of a single supervision of the euro area and a resolution under a single resolution since 2016. These developments in the Banking Union also led to the need for ESM reform and for a review of the instruments agreed by the Heads of Government and Heads of State of the European euro area countries at a summit in December 2018 in an inclusive format. The aim, as the Minister also said, was to strengthen the joint resolution capacity and through it the resilience to crises. Between 2019 and 2020 the ESM itself has been very active in the preparation of the reform. Moreover, just as the financial crisis of 2008 brought about significant changes to the COVID-19 pandemic crisis management system. From the reform prepared by the European Stability Mechanism and the new measures taken by the ESM, we will hear a more in-depth review from the Minister on Wednesday when we discuss the draft law on the ratification of the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism and the other related items. However, if we look briefly at some aspects, the reform of the European Stability Mechanism aims to increase the role of ESM preventive support instruments in the future, which is expected to reduce the cost of resolution. Preventive support instruments are intended for early intervention, providing Member States with the opportunity to secure ESM support even before the country has experienced serious difficulties in borrowing money from capital markets. With this objective, the ESM's additional terms and conditions were also established in spring 2020 on the basis of a precautionary credit line, an instrument to mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 crisis, which was opened up for use by all Member States. As a result of the reform, the ESM will continue to offer a safeguard measure to the resolution fund, which is another step towards stability in the euro area. The Estonian state will benefit from this. But this, as well as other changes in the ESM measures, will be more precise on Wednesday in the big hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U69	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. As is customary in such reviews, the Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of the debate. We have finished dealing with the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U70	Let's move on to the fourth item on the agenda. This is the inquiry submitted on 14 October 2021 by Urmas Reinsalu, Sven Sester and Heiki Hepner, members of the Riigikogu, concerning the issue of shares in Enefit Green AS (No 88). This is answered by Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. I ask the representative of the heirs, Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, to present this question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U71	[[Remote connection]] Madam Secretary of Finance! The Enefit Green case is actually a long beard case. In fact, it was already a coalition agreement in the previous coalition on the proposal of the Fatherland. It took a long time to prepare, and in the meantime there was also a very volatile situation in the world's economic environment and in the money markets. Now it was reasonable, first and foremost, after the opening of the second pillar funds, to have alternatives in the Estonian capital market, to carry out this issue. And now, in view of the fact that the issue was appropriate and reasonable in every way, it revived our capital market and gave a completely different dimension to the perspective of the capital injection of a large number of people, as we also saw of a mass interest in subscription to shares among retail investors. There are two questions in this regard. The first question is for the Minister of Finance. At least then, in the previous government, this was discussed, it was thought that a minority shareholding could lead to the issue, but it was 49%, but now it was approximately twice as much, 26% or how much it was, the Minister of Finance can specify. Perhaps the question is very simple and specific: why was the majority of Enefit Green's shares, or 49%, not placed on the issue? The second question raised by the heirs concerns that some retail investors could not fully realise their subscription requests in those tranches where subscription was possible. Institutional investors were able to do so on a larger scale. My question is why the subscription prospectus was built according to this logic. Why were Estonian retail investors with a larger perspective not preferred? It certainly has a good-looking return, one can expect, already the value of the stock has increased. Consequently, the value of the property, if people had had more freedom to subscribe to these shares, would have been greater for the people of Estonia. At present, preference for institutional investors was higher. This problem, as it seems to me, is such a methodical one. The same problem was the issue of the Port of Tallinn in its day. Even then, I drew attention to this many times. I was hoping that in the case of Enefit Green, we would be able to push this balance point more in favour of retail investors. Well, it didn't work. In this respect, the question is, who and how did this decision develop so that there was no greater opportunity for retail investors who would have liked to have subscribed to the shares. And there's no point in talking about how much you actually said. We understand perfectly that the behaviour of retail investors in the financial decision was influenced by the ideology of the prospectus itself, how much was there, where 1000 shares were guaranteed, i.e. the people noted in that volume. If this dome had not been in this form, but would have been institutionally guaranteed the opportunity for investors, retail investors would have had as many signs as the signs, and it would have been distributed equally, then the subscription would certainly have been broader than I would have erected such a hypothesis. So I would expect the Minister of Finance to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U72	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu Chair to answer this question by the Minister of Finance Keit Pentus-Rosimpus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U73	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good heirs, members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I say that this is not a bearded story, but it has become one of the unprecedented success stories. Thank you for the questions that have already been handed over in October. At that time the IPO had not yet taken place and not all the information that is now known was available to or at the disposal of the inquisitors. The two questions you asked sounded like this. Firstly, why has it been decided to carry out an issue of only 26% of the company's shares, although the previous decision of the Government of the Republic is 49%? It must be said that the mandate from the government was up to 49%, and the primary or primary objective of the public offer of Enefit Green's shares was to finance the company's investment plan, Enefit Green, which allows the company to increase its renewable energy production capacity by 2.3 times its current level by 2025. And, of course, in order for Enefit Green to be able to maximise the value of the company, an appropriate balance between equity and foreign capital is necessary in order to implement an investment plan of some EUR 600 million. In the coming years, Enefit Green has mobilised EUR 100 million of investors' money and this is the appropriate volume to implement this plan. This is complemented by the company's own cash flow, as well as by the resources involved in the new loans. A total of 22,8% of the shares in Enefit Green were sold to retail investors and investment funds throughout the transaction. As has been said, the previous government mandate was to dispose of up to 49%. That's true for the moment. The decision that the company has a mandate to dispose of up to 49% will certainly allow for subsequent disposals of shareholdings in the future. The condition is that the majority, i.e. 51%, remains on Eesti Energia. The second question in the question of questioning was this: "Why does the Government of the Republic allow retail investors to subscribe to only 1000 shares guaranteed in the case of issuance, and thus in fact prefer institutional investors, even though the Government of the Republic had different views on this issue? " I think that these views have not really been very different. As has been said, the public offer of Enefit Green's shares was an unprecedented success. More than 60000 retail investors participated in this retail subscription and 80% of those who participated in the subscription talk about retail investors received the total volume of shares, more than 90% of retail investors received at least 50% of the shares. In total, the distribution was such that 55% of the bid volume was distributed to retail investors. So, in itself, it is not a correct statement or assessment that institutional investors were somehow in the majority or preferred position. Just for comparison, since there was a reminder of the Tallinn Port, I say that in the Tallinn Port transaction the volume of the offer to retail investors was finally 21%. In the case of Enefit Green, as I said, it was 55%. In addition, institutional investors became the highest distribution of Baltic pension funds. This also reflects the preference given to local long-term investors. So this fact itself, that more than 4% of the Estonian population participated in the subscription, is an unprecedented result, and it can be said that Enefit Green became a real public share as a result of this offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U74	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions too. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U75	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Madam Secretary of Finance! Enefit Green's offer was successful, people had an interest in it, and the market reacted positively, and I am not against it. My question was about the level of ambition, why we did not take full advantage of it in order to make it an even greater share of the population. That was my question. And the question was two-part. The first part was why they didn't sell 49%. For me, ideologically, the question is not so much whether there is a need for additional investment in specific matters, but whether privatisation could be carried out in such a sector. My question, Madam Secretary of Finance, is whether we can expect to sell this 21% in the near future, too, or what is the position of the owner? And second of all, you said you could see that so many didn't use it, but you designed a briefcase for it. I would argue that people would have used this opportunity more than the number of guaranteed prospectus subscriptions would have been higher for retail investors. Why wasn't it done? Were there any alternatives on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U76	Thank you. The first part of this question that is now being asked has actually been answered, but I am happy to overdo it. Indeed, this mandate was up to 49% to be transferred, i.e. to carry out the issue. In addition to the fact that the initial purpose of this whole issue, the public offer, was to raise money for investments, it is certainly a part of the choice of the organisation and the exact part to be auctioned. The part is that it was the first IPO of this kind. I do not think there is any way, I do not know, to condemn or to make a negative assessment of it, because it was reasonable to carry out the first stage of investment inclusion, the issue. And the success of the current IPO will certainly give a certain signal and not only a signal, but also a guarantee that it can go forward in the future. I am pretty sure that the current IPO will not be the last option for retail investors to participate and invest in the development of renewable energy capacities in Estonia and to do so through Enefit Green. Such great interest and success will certainly increase this confidence that the second phase and the second part will follow. I have to say, the other half of the question is a little confusing for me. Who exactly had the obstacles or who could not attend? As stated, 55% were distributed to retail investors. And 80% of the retail investors who participated received all the shares they wanted. So I think it was actually a well-managed solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U77	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U78	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said your first wish was to finance a plan for Enefit Green. Here I totally agree with Mr Reinsalu, who says that it was rather an ideological issue for us. Really, since the Estonian roads, the Port of Tallinn, Enefit Green, these are all topics that have been on the table for the last two and a half years and it is good that we made it this far. Our goal, however, was to make less of a country and more of a private enterprise more effective. This, of course, brings people the opportunity to participate in investment policy within Estonia. But your answers gave me an additional question. You said this was the first step. Let me get this straight. You're coming to the market for Enefit Green's stock package in the near future. Or what did it mean that it was the first stage?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U79	Thank you. Well, I must say, of course, first of all, that the two governments, the previous government and the current government have been consistent in that sense. You planned, as Urmas Reinsalu pointed out, and considered it necessary in the same way to have 49% emissions. The mandate of the current government was also up to 49%. Perhaps this is not more than half, more than 50% emissions, but both of us have talked about 49% and that 51% remains the control of Eesti Energia. The latest IPO results must certainly be seen in the light of the high level of interest, readiness and trust in green investment, renewable energy investment. This will certainly give the company confidence to plan the next steps within the framework of the government's mandate. I mean, up to 49% is the mandate to carry out the mission. As has been said, I really think that further planning and planning of subsequent issuances is not a matter of preparation as long as the preparation of the IPO has now taken place, but should take place much faster. There is certainly no reason to stick to the level of inclusion of investments that have already taken place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U80	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U81	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I am rather concerned about the question that, indeed, we now involved, roughly, half of the possible money that we could have involved in the issue of shares. We know that we currently have a huge shortage of power generation capacity in the market. Is it true that only so little was involved now that our ambition to increase energy production capacity in the coming years will be limited to this? We know that we are lacking energy generation capacity in the market today, but we are not making the most of this money to move forward here. This, in my opinion, is actually the main problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U82	Thank you. The development of renewable energy capacities must certainly be planned and, in any case, is where investment is needed and where investment is made. As has been said, the investment currently involved allows Enefit Green alone, which is in itself one of the most successful and major renewable energy companies in the whole region, to increase the company's renewable energy capacity to 2.3 times its current level by 2025. It's a pretty big growth. All the renewable energy capacities that can be implemented and which can still be developed, I think the sooner they come true, the better. Certainly also on the side of the country, where it is possible to resolve such long-standing obstacles, precisely because there is a need and demand for renewable energy, as you said yourself, for them to be resolved. This is one of those steps, a pretty big and important step, but certainly not the only one.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U83	Good fellows! As our Home and Rules of Procedure Act says, there is a question of questioning. I don't see any more of your questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U84	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Madam Secretary of Finance! Good listeners! We didn't get much more information on our questions, being enthusiasts for privatisation and capital market recovery. I realized it's positive that the Minister of Finance said, if I try not to put words in his mouth, he can himself correct that 49% are still going to sell. It wasn't wanted to be a "one" chunk, it was wanted to see how this thing worked out, and then to do it as the next step. I can only encourage the government and the Minister for Finance to take this step without stretching to market 49% or, let us say, to place it on the market 21%. Certainly, this strategy of raising the company's own capital cannot be inhibited. It seemed to me that on the guiding question, or on the next question, the Minister of Finance withdrew this restraint. The second question concerns the fact that only 1000 shares were guaranteed for retail investors to subscribe. My question, which I asked earlier, was clear: why were you only 1,000 shares? Why this proportion was 55:45 if, for example, 70:30 could have been developed, if retail investors had been more willing to offer. Because I would like to stress once again that the dynamics of retail investors' offer were certainly influenced unambiguously by the fact that the prospectus contained 1000. If this figure had been higher, I would certainly have raised a hypothetical argument here This in itself is a virtue, not a problem. Now, in the light of this reference, when it is put on the market by 21%, I call for it to be put on the market by 21% without stretching. And secondly, in that case, I suggest that we not stick to this 1000-share dome in offering retail investors, but make [our] conclusions. Since 60000 people took part, I still encourage them to be more people, whether today's shareholders or new people, who are coming, so that they can participate in the good performance of the Estonian economy. All the more so since this investment, as pointed out by the questioner, will contribute to the total amount of our renewable energy investments if more money comes into this business sector. These are two messages that I would leave in the air. First, to sell Enefit Green 21% quickly, and second, to retail investors to take down this obstructive dome. Specific, friendly, confident and positive tasks for the government. So, Keit, come on. There is no doubt that we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U85	Thank you very much, good waitress. I now ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister, if you're at a hearing distance, I mean the Minister of Finance, not the Minister of Culture, then pay attention. Urmas Reinsalu had constructive thoughts, which I would like to repeat in some ways. Indeed, the claim that 80% of retail investors were satisfied was simply the result of the same prospectus that said that 1000 shares would be guaranteed. I would remind you that, if more than that, it was only 5% that was guaranteed in addition to retail investors, so it could easily have been 2,000 shares or 3,000 shares, because really the people of Estonia would have wanted to invest in renewable energy in our country and our country's long plan, if you could say so, in the light of the green turn. That would have been very right. I very much agree with my good groupmate, Urmas Reinsalu, who also called for the placing on the market of the remaining shares, which were not subscribed to by 49%, and still to organise a new issue quickly. In spite of the fact that Enefit Green is now able to grow its renewable energy production 2,3 times, this is clearly insufficient. If we want a serious change in our energy policy here, we realise that significantly more investment is needed in this area and that our ambition must be much greater than it has been so far. It is very regrettable that we have not really started to tackle this problem quickly enough and with sufficient force. One more keyword. If it is now planned to bring the remaining share of the shares to the capital market, then the notice period could also be longer. Let's remind ourselves of this very jumpy communication before we mention it in particular. The date on which this could take place was announced quite last minute before the start of the subscription. Indeed, many have asked me, too, what was the deal with this, why only 1,000 shares were allowed to be subscribed and why this subscription message came at the last minute, whether there was anything in the air. Well, I don't want to be a conspiracy theorist or blow up any conspiracy here, but it all seemed kind of funny. In this sense, I hope that there is something to learn about the rest of the capital market. So, Madam Minister, if you are still within earshot, we wish you strength with the Isamaa Group. Work hard enough to promote our green energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U87	Thank you very much. I will also make it clear that the Minister of Finance is with us at the meeting. According to my information, he has switched himself to a remote hearing so that he can hear the thoughts of the members of the Riigikogu completely. And now, on the Internet, please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good minister, for this review. As right-wing politicians, I think that, both you and us, I believe, we should do the maximum to ensure that we reduce the share of the state in managing and owning different companies. It is true that when the previous coalition, mostly viewed by the Fatherland, brought this thing on the table, in the meantime the corona crisis came and we were unable to move on so quickly. Today, it is gratifying to note that state-owned companies have either been sold completely or partly. Estonian roads have been fully realised today, 30% in the Port of Tallinn and now Enefit Green with 20+ %. And to be quite honest, at least on the side of the Fatherland, we have looked at when and whether the state should have businesses. Especially when there is no market failure. It should be noted that Enefit Green is not in fact a market failure. These are investments that could and will actually be made by many different private companies in parallel, including in the form of a state-owned company. And as a result, it was also our wish to maximise the proportion that Estonian investors, mainly Estonian investors, could afford. And 49% of our vision is still rather the first stage in the long journey in which the state reduces its shareholding. And from this point of view, as did previous speakers, both Urmas Reinsalu and everyone said that, if possible and I understand what you have said, you have thought about this, in fact, to increase further the possible number of investors, or to give the market additional opportunities, it would be worth taking action on this. And in addition to the reduction in the share of the Estonian state in the management of state-owned companies, I think that, indeed, what has been going through today, several important observations since the money goes into green energy and green reverse programmes, which I think makes sense. And what is certainly important is that if we direct it mainly to Estonian investors, our equity market will also recover considerably more than possible additional flows aimed at foreign investors. For my part, I would also call on you to think in the near future about further channelling Enefit Green's shares into the market. There is no need for the Estonian state to have a 70+ % size; we could calmly take ourselves to 51% and give people the opportunity to get a possible increase through these investments through green energy programmes. I wish you strength, and I hope we think the same way!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U89	Thank you. There's no more calls. I am closing the negotiations and this has been answered and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U90	Let's move on to agenda number five. This is an inquiry submitted by member of the Riigikogu Anti Polandmets on 14 October 2021 about Russian propaganda films in Estonian National Broadcasting. An inquiry shall bear the number 89. The Minister of Culture Tiit Terik will answer the question. I will now give the floor to the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu Anti to the Polish forest, who will introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public. Please! (The word "connection" is on the remote display) Honourable Anti-Semiamets, you are not to be heard. Honourable Anti Separatist, you are still not heard. I have a request: maybe you can turn your computer off and turn it back on for a second. Looks like... It doesn't seem like it, it's technical problems at the moment. The word was given to the Polish forest, please. We have no contact with you at the moment. Once again, I have a request: can you log out of the system for a moment and come in again? Let's try, maybe we can reconnect. And one more little point, maybe you should connect without a picture, just a voice. Let's try it again. Please, Anti Division! [[Silence.]] What doesn't exist is a voice. I'll take the manager's break in four minutes, try to solve this technical problem. Break four minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U91	The chairman's break is now over. In the meantime, I was also in contact with the inquisitor. We'll try to contact him again. Anti-Semiamets, please! You're not to be heard. Let's try it one more time. Anti-Semiamets, please! Yeah, I still can't hear you. Now the questioner has even come and said that it would be appropriate for him to come here to the Riigikogu Chair and give an immediate answer. But when you look at our Home and Working Procedures Act, it says that the answer to the inquiry begins with the speech of the heir or representative of the heirs, the presentation of the inquiry, and we cannot get over it or around it, even if the Anti Half Office is a teinue such a benevolent and cooperative proposal. But let's try to connect once more to the Anti Polish Forest. Please, Anti Division! Unfortunately, we are not able to make that connection right now. I'll take the manager's break again in five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry for a little longer break. We tried to solve technical problems. Hopefully now we have made contact with Anti Polish Forest and we can go to the question he presented about Russian propaganda films in Estonian National Broadcasting. So, please, Anti Halfway!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U93	[[Remote connection]] Minister, thank you very much. This inquiry was already submitted to Anneli Ot. As a member of the ERR Board, I know I have a duty of care to monitor the ERR programme and whether it also complies with the law. If we look at this period, which was in September and October, then there has been even a special invasion of Russian war films bearing Putin's ideology in Soviet style, in a situation where our ERR ether is limited to excellent national culture programmes, for Estonian history, films and programmes. It is deeply incomprehensible why the ERR should subcontract to the RTR Rossi. Certainly, it is not the responsibility of the Estonian taxpayer to pay off such films, and at the top of everything, it is not the job of the Estonian taxpayer to pay off such films. I will give the audience just a few examples. A film about female pilots, night bombers, a multi-part series called Night swallows. And as if it hadn't been enough, there was still a multi-piece film called "Little Battle Corps" that's crawling with blue clichés, evil Poles, all the vicious Eastern European nations, etc. My question is, is this how the ERR complies with the law? What can be done about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U94	This question must be answered by Minister of Culture Tiit Terik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U95	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heir, thank you very much for being so kind and promising to answer this question somewhat later than it was originally planned! The ministerial exchange has indeed, as you yourself rightly mentioned, been the reason for this. You've asked four questions, I'm going to go over them here. "How is the exhibition of Russian war films with Estonian taxpayers' money in conjunction with the pre-emptions resulting from the ERR Act?"; "On what basis will ETV and ETV+ be selected when dealing with historical topics?"; "What are the plans for presenting the topics of Estonian history in ERR?" and "Why have ETV and ETV+ not been broadcast in Russia or Ukraine for the performance of communist films?" Honourable Anti-Semimets! All four questions can actually be answered at the same time, and here the Minister of Culture can rely on the National Broadcasting Act and the Media Services Act approved by Parliament. In fact, § 3 of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act states very clearly: "National broadcasting is independent in the production and transmission of its programmes, programmes and other media services and is based solely on the requirements of the Act. "This means, honourable member of the Riigikogu, that national broadcasting has the free power to decide on its own programmes and programmes and films sent to its viewers, subject to the laws of the Republic of Estonia, of course. In addition, the editorial freedom provided for in § 6 of the Media Services Act must be taken into account. I'll quote it with your permission. "The responsibility for carrying out activities shall be the control by the media service provider of the selection, content and design of programmes and the placement of their programme or programme catalogue. " Here it can be noted once again that the programme on the air is what the editor decides on, who, of course, bears responsibility for it. In Estonian National Broadcasting, a procurement agency has been set up to make the first choice of the content to be procured, based on orders from programme editors to programme zones, based, of course, on the expectations of the auditorium as well as on the overall programme format. Deciding on the suitability of content is a cooperation between different editorials, and it can certainly be that for certain programmes the perception of the suitability of content is somewhat different, so it must also be understood that sometimes there may be unsuccessful choices. I would like to stress once again to the honourable Riigikogu that the Estonian Public Broadcasting is not a state media, but a legal person governed by public law, which means that the Minister of Culture does not have supervisory powers in this matter. For this reason, national broadcasting is free in its choices as a media service provider. However, this does not, of course, mean that no one can exercise control over the activities of national broadcasting. I refer to the same law, § 21 (1) (7) of the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, according to which the monitoring of the fulfilment of the objectives and tasks falls within the competence of the National Broadcasting Council. I would like to point out that the honourable heir is also a member of this Council, as he himself said here before. Perhaps it is not the Minister who can decide on the content of the ERR, but the honourable inquisitor who is a member of the ERR Council. Finally, I would like to mention once again that compliance with the law is supervised by the Council, not by the Minister of Culture. The council includes representatives of all the political groups of the Riigikogu as well as some experts in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U96	You also have a few questions, at least one. Tarmo Kruus Mountain begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U97	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The fact that the Minister does not have a position on such a delicate matter, well, that is what it is. But here's what I'm going to ask you. I'm not a member of the ERR board. Does the ERR have an obligation to show all the films in the package? Because we know how this procurement goes, some pearls are placed there, then the party places mediocrity and then maybe something that is ideologically unacceptable to the Estonian state. Does the ERR have an obligation to show the entire package of Brezhnev?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U98	Thank you very much for your question, good member of the Riigikogu! I believe that editorials in their procurement programmes are based on the best choice. Of course, there may also be other aspects concerning the budgetary side, so if you order one piece of linen, the other will automatically come along. But here I would like to emphasise once again that the editorial works are those who do such a selection, and I believe that they also come from what our viewers want to see. Of course, I believe that they are also watching the artistic level of the film, which is the image language, i.e. probably not just the content, which of course could create disputes. It is certainly possible to look at the film language separately here, and I believe that the Estonian television viewer is also critical enough and can draw conclusions on history himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U99	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U100	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. Well, I'd say your answer after the editorial board decides on the content, well, let's imagine there's some racist editorial leader who's gonna be there, for example, constantly cultivating hate speech against the white race in all kinds of movies, shows, groups of conversations, and so on, that's what the editorial team decides on, and then the Ministry of Culture's gonna tell you he can't do anything. Well, that's a weird example, but still. Now I recall why ETV+ was created. This was done to promote integration. The showing of such flagship councils today, the heroic films of World War II, is certainly not the best way to promote integration. That is why I am asking whether the Ministry of Culture will not at all discuss with the management of the ERR how to deepen integration and not showcase Soviet chauvinism.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U101	Thank you very much, Mr Helme, for this question. I can assure you that I have discussed the same issue with the head of the ERR. I believe that, in addition to the reaction of one of the members of the Council, of course, they also draw their own conclusions on this issue and perhaps sometimes take a more attentive view. However, as far as your question is concerned, I can say here that, if there are any complaints about the programme, in the ERR Act § 31, there is a very clear role for the Ethics Advisor. The Ethics Advisor can take decisions on oppositions and disputes concerning content and, of course, the law has also imposed on him an obligation to monitor the balance of the programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U102	Mart Helme, second question, please! Oh, I'm sorry! Mr. Helme, I beg your pardon. We are in the process of questioning, and in the case of enquiries, we are able to ask a question. I'm so sorry, my bad. Mr. Helme, there is one question we have about questions. Well, no more questions, Minister, I don't see you. I will open negotiations and get the floor to Tarmo Kruusimäe first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U103	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good vice chairman. A good waitress and good people who listen to us online! Yes, it had to be said that if there was no answer, there would be no answer. The fact that the minister referred to the ethics counsellor of Tarmu Tammerk, I may be mistaken, has not written to him for a couple of years, this is the kind of buffer zone that takes all the resentment on its own, but obviously does not overstate it, because the change as such is not visible. The last time I reacted a few years ago, I assumed that on a day like December 1 would be wonderfully suited in Estonian Television to show our 'December Hot', which is a thematic film, was instead a film of one of the great serious Russian scouts, namely 'Seventeen Spring moments'. I didn't get an answer back then, so it's like letters to Grandma's country where there's no address, everybody writes out their negative emotions. I can't really imagine Poland showing such a film as the Little Battle Corps, where Polish freedom fighters, Polish underground officers, were treated as hostile characters, but the end was left with a small moment, but the friendly Red Army then also called the Poles: you didn't realize that we came to give you freedom. Interestingly, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, everyone realized that this was not the freedom that was brought to them, but simply a redeployment. How do I make choices? We know that ETV and ETV2 show extremely good, nice movies, well, real pleasure. But the buyers of the movies have said that this is the kind of package that sometimes you get completely unintelligible things. Sometimes the question has arisen as to whether there is any such moment of repetition in the game that several times something can be shown. Then it has been that the evening will be shown and the next day will be repeated, but more it will not be available, it is simply due to the fact that it can be shown within 24 hours in its own channels as much as it can. But you don't know if you can't show one. I really don't know, I haven't been in the procurement myself. That is why my question is whether, if there are still ideologically unacceptable films for us, we could not show them. It is particularly sad to hear that we have been given, say, such a small time to introduce national culture and historical films, and that it is not enough. That's why maybe things are being done, and all these other things are being cut. If it is true that you have bought all these films and you have to show them all, then ideologically inappropriate movies could be shown at a time when there is not much viewing. That's how a smart country would do. But at an attractive time when young people come out of school, graduate from school, they get new knowledge about World War II. I think it's all wrong. This has been a problem for me, but I have realised that it is the will to change something in Estonian national broadcasting that is lacking. This has led me to a situation where I simply consume less Estonian Television, because I do not think it can be combated. If there's still no will, there's no will. However, since this question was raised by a good co-worker, Anti Poolams, I think it will be enough if I mark it. It's not a recent issue, it's a wave, it's a flood of empire-minded shows that you take or leave, depending on how smart you are. After all, we see that only a few false statements are enough if we already have a divided society. We say we're a clever people. We're such a clever people that we're doing remote work right now, and we're mad here for 20 minutes to get this clever people into their work with parts of their work through smart solutions. Therefore, I would not leave it to the people, but would like the Minister of Culture to intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U104	Now please, Anti Division!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U105	[[Remote connection]] Yeah. There is a lot to agree with the previous speaker, especially the last saying that it seems to be a trend, a trend coming from somewhere: an empire-minded paradigm is pushing itself. I'd like an answer to where it came from. The fact that ETV+ showed criminals with NKVD blue hats to catch was so common that the eyebrow never came up again, there's just normality to show Stalinist films. But the fact that the most inferior Soviet-style propaganda films were now blackmailed into ETV is a great shock. In any case, the Minister responded extremely superficially, referring more or less to editorial freedoms. But look, private channels are private channels, they have no law. They don't act under the law. ETV operates under the law. Often it seems to me that there is a whistle of the law, a talk of freedom of speech, and unspeakable distorted news. Is this an adequate news documentary about Orbán as the first European dictator? The government with the highest level of support in Europe today. Such wretched propaganda, imbalance and evasion cannot be justified by any arguments. In fact, the law must be observed and not turned into a sub-contractor of RTR Rossija, which is a disgrace. I think it's a busy time for the Minister and he couldn't watch these movies, but if he had seen it with his own eyes, he'd definitely have a soul stuck on it. Let me give you another example. The ERR should promote a family-based model of society. But where can I see it? On this point, the procurement manager thought for a long time, thought, thought and said that "Department in the Estonian way" was their contribution to fulfilling this point. They shoot across the corner, they talk about freedom of speech, but the law is unfortunately forgotten. So, Mr. Minister, I suggest you keep an eye on him. That's for our taxpayer's money. We don't need night bombers, I promise, people are also very angry, very many are writing to the members of the ERR board, so many are disturbed that this is some kind of Andropov movie contest. Invitation to the Minister and, of course, to the ERR Council, where I am: to be more attentive to compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U106	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U107	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would say that ETV+ is meant to be nothing but a propaganda channel in Estonia from the outset. As a propaganda channel, but as an Estonian propaganda channel. To introduce the Estonian state, Estonian history, Estonian traditions, Estonian customs, Estonian language to the numerous contingents that arrived here during the Soviet period, who live next to us and with whom we will probably live peacefully side by side for very long decades, but for whom a comparison has already been made in Soviet times, that Estonians and Russians are water and oil that do not want to mix well with each other. We see, in fact, that now that it is more or less 30 years, in general, since the singing revolution and the restoration of Estonian independence, oil and water still do not mix very much. Well, we can see it now after the local elections, where the two-headed eagle of Ossinovski-Kõlvart has risen to the throne in Tallinn. So it doesn't mix. No, it doesn't. The civilization of the Russians, the sense of belonging and support of their own, even the fierce mentality, is a much greater obstacle to this than the Estonians, I would say, such a cool, indifferent liberality, but also a cool rejection of all strangers. And to overcome these gaps, to mix oil and water in its time, ETV+ was created to pave the way to overcome these differences, different world views and different historical approaches. We can see that ETV+ has not done this at all. I understand that it is very difficult for this small television channel to compete with large and powerful Russian television channels, which the Estonian state stubbornly still agrees with us here to transfeit in both freeband and other ways. Of course, in this situation, the Russian here has no choice but to look at these large television channels, where the programme is much more diverse, where the professionalism of execution is much higher, where the range of journalists is much more diverse, etc. We understand all these professional barriers and problems very well, but that does not mean that we have to accept it. We don't have to accept that. I occasionally watch ETV+, from time to time, because frankly, how many times should I watch Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple? I think they run there pretty much all the time. Well, I clicked on the channel, watching "Miss Marple" again. Well, thank you. Like the Finns say, "Kitus vodka," but I don't want it anymore. I'll keep going. What I often look at is precisely history films. And I look at it as a historian on the one hand, how true it is, how realistic it is, how propaganda it is, but also how professionally presented it is. And I have to say, of course, the level is fluctuating, but most of the history films and the history series are professionally very good. And they're also on a very good level of propaganda. As a Russian, my chest would expand with pride when I look at Catherine the Great, watch Peter the First, watch films about Napoleon's wars or cultural figures, like Tchaikovsky or anyone. Of course, as a Russian, I would be very proud of my great history, my great men. It's all so well presented. The question now is that the Russians also see the same shows and films in their Russian channels. Why does our ETV+ still have to show them here? This is not really an ETV+ task. The task of ETV+ is to integrate Russian people into our Estonian lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U108	Do you need more time, Mr. Helme?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U109	Yeah. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U110	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U111	As I said, this channel has not done well. I don't think I've made it because, as you liked to say, the creator of the Soviet Empire, we can say that, because Lenin was the giver of it, but Stalin was the creator of the empire, the shots will decide everything. In my opinion, in the case of ETV+, this does not apply to all the employees there, but mostly, this kind of Russian-oriented mentality strikes out. Let's give the Russians Russia, let's not give the Russians a little bit of Estonia. A little Estonia, of course, but not too much. This is a very serious issue. I know that broadcasting in the Council has been raised, but it has not flown anywhere from there. As far as I know at the Ministry of Culture in the previous government, we touched on this issue, but the Ministry of Culture, under the leadership of various ministers, has also failed to do the best of directing it, explaining it and checking it, if you want to use that word. I have a very serious request in this regard to the new Minister for Culture, who, in my opinion, is a very intelligent person with sufficient knowledge of both the Estonian people and the Russian community to undertake a paradigm change here. I think this is very, very important for our country's unity and stability. So the main focus of my small speech is this: perhaps, Minister, you will take over and try to achieve a certain shift in attitude here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U112	Mr. Kruusimäe, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U113	[[Remote connection]] Yeah. Since the Anti-Semiamets mentioned me for a moment, what did he understand? Can I get a very short reply? I hope the Minister is also interested in this, let us say, in our protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U114	The reception is indeed possible. So actually, you already had a microphone, you could have canceled it. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U115	Thank you. I wanted to bring in another moment that's been bothering you for a long, long time, and not just, let's say, about the movies. It was referred to by the Half-Authority. At some point, the ERR has lost its objectivity and become subjective. Just for example, if some sort of parliamentary elections have taken place somewhere and everything has happened democratically, there will still be some kind of epithetes, for example, that the ultra-government on the right has come to power in this country. No, it's not, let's say, an editor or an opinion writer thing to put personal preferences on it. All the more so than from my own perspective, it is a sister party of the European People's Party, which has obtained such a result in local elections or national elections that they are represented and the greatest force in the European Parliament. However, we still have trouble and maybe mouths and all sorts of derogatory epithetes being put in there. Could it be that the ERR is balanced again? Of course, even in the case of vaccines such news that eight people died in the United States doesn't instill in people the confidence that I'm going to make the vaccine tomorrow. I've already done three. But over and over again, I read what somebody there thinks a few people died in another country again. No people die every day, including in Estonia. We need to give people confidence that the vaccine is working and that is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U116	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The minister doesn't want an ending, does he? No, I don't. Then we are done with this question, and today's agenda is over in terms of points.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-22_U117	It is now possible for all those who wish to say in a free microphone what they have in their souls. Please! You don't see a wish like that, so the trial is closed. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
