ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our Thursday session. We have the 4th working week of the VI session, and it is first possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U2	On behalf of three members of the Riigikogu, I will pass on an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs concerning the issue of Enefit Green shares. The last day of subscription is today. This is a very right step; on the proposal of the Fatherland, these decisions were made in order to revive the capital market in Estonia. However, there are two fundamental questions. The timing of the issue is correct, it coincides with the pension reform, where people can make transfers to their investment account in the form of their shares. But the first question is that it was decided earlier that the issuance portfolio would be 49% of Enefit Green. In the current situation, this really depends on the volume of the offer, but we are talking about a quarter of this company. I mean, why was it reduced? And the second question, which is very important. Yes, in the previous government, the previous Minister of Finance might say this, we had a clear logic that, in the case of the portfolio, Estonian retail investors should be preferred. We talked about it several times. However, in this prospectus, the new government has taken a decision that guaranteed shares are only 1000 to the retail investor so much can be subscribed to. In reality, then, the government chose to give preference to institutional, large investors in carrying out this issue. This, in my opinion, is not reasonable in view of the future of the Estonian capital market and we want to know what its justification was. Why did the government change these earlier positions? You could say yes, capital doesn't have a nationality, but every nation has to have its own capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U3	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U4	I will present an inquiry to Anneli Ot, Minister of Culture. This concerns compliance with the National Broadcasting Act. According to the National Broadcasting Act, the ERR must ensure, among other things, the audiovisual recording of Estonian history and culture, the guarantees of the survival of the Estonian nation, the circumstances that may threaten the survival of the Estonian state and Estonian nation, etc. Unfortunately, the film "Night swallows" is currently broadcast by ETV, which continues the traditions of Soviet war films. This film on the topics of World War II, in the key to a putin's ideology of history, is even an eight - part film. The same amount of air time given to films and series on Estonian history is rare. In addition, four parts of the "Badaber Fortress" produced in 2018 were on the air in September-October, with the focus on the heroization of Soviet military intelligence. ETV+ was broadcast last year with a long criminal series, the main characters of which were the criminal trackers of Stalin's time. The historical concept of today's Russia is chauvinist, substantially directed by the authorities and strongly idealized. I want to know from the Minister of Culture how it is consistent with the objectives of the ERR Act to show the idealized Russian war films for the Estonian taxpayer's money. At the same time, what are the plans for dealing with the topics of Estonian history in the ERR? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U6	55 members of the Riigikogu wrote down themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U7	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda, which is why the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has launched a crucial national question: "How to get the price of electricity down?" discussion. There are three presentations in the debate and they are in this order. TalTech's energy professor Alar Kon is the first to perform, whose presentation is up to 30 minutes. Followed by questions-answers, including up to 30 minutes. The second is a presentation by Arvi Hamburg, a doctor of technical sciences, member of the Energy Commission of the Academy of Sciences, including up to 30 minutes, and questions-answers as well as 30 minutes. The third is a presentation by Martin Helme, Chairman of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and member of the Group, for up to 20 minutes, and questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to each rapporteur. When the time for questions and answers runs out, it will not come naturally. After the presentations, the negotiations will be opened and the speeches may be made by members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees or political groups. At the request of the EKRE Group, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Let's get to the debate. Riigikogu speech chair Alar Konisti, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U8	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good morning, it's a pleasure to stand here in front of you. Surprisingly, you are a beautiful lot. So I'm gonna have to do a little bit more, that's kind of a motivating factor for me. The topic is how to get the price of electricity down, but I'm going to approach it a little differently. Rather, is only contributing to renewable energy helping us to keep the price where it is today. Perhaps we should actually do something more. This is perhaps a little more precise the title of my approach to the subject. Why do I think that? First of all, we need to look at today's world of energy consumption, what it is. Do you think everyone's renewable today? I'm sorry, I'm not. If we look at this percentage distribution, we see that practically 80% or say 79% of the world's primary energy consumption is based on fossil fuels, even though we have had a corona crisis, the economy has cooled, production has decreased. This relationship has remained relatively constant. Of course, it has changed that the share of renewable energy has increased. But this growth is certainly not what we have been waiting for. Let us see what today's European face looks like. You see, there's actually coal consumption. It does not form the majority, as it was for a long time, but about a quarter more could be the proportion of coal. Let's just say that coal and gas together account for half of the primary energy production based on fossil fuels; the rest is to carry the oil. One way to put it, what the hell? Coal stations will be stuck soon, and that's how it is. They're not going to jail because we don't have coal. Rather, they go to prison because their working life and their working resources are exhausted or depleted. Now, if we look at how big the capacity we have on the coal plants, they're still in the gigawatts. For example, the power of the Polish coal plant in Bełchatów is nearly 5 gigawatts or 5 000 megawatts. If these coal plants disappear and we don't build something, what happens then? Then, basically, we're going to have what's going on in England. If we think about why England's prices are high, then the main input fuel they have today is the gas they import to a large extent. And if the price of gas goes up, the prices of electricity will rise. And if we want to go down the general European road or actually along the global road, reducing the use of coal or ending the use of coal at all, there are no fast and cheap alternatives. Why don't we use the gas? But where does it really lead, and is it sustainable? I don't know how to answer that. But let's just say the statistics already show this change. You can see it on that slide. Sorry, I've got a year wrong here, it has to be until 2019 when the intercourse has changed. Gas consumption is already significantly higher than coal consumption since the year before last. Now let's see how suddenly these prices have gone so high. We have an electricity market, it should regulate the price, it should guarantee the best, the most favourable solutions for us, or the price of electricity should be cheap. But before we go into the price of electricity there, we should understand that when we talk about electricity, the consumer, I don't think about it at first either. I mean, it's this power generation that will definitely have a huge impact on my electricity bill. But actually, if you look into this bill, you'll see that in addition to power generation and the price of electricity itself, we also have a network fee. These two factors form the main part of the bill. In addition, VAT, renewable energy fees and excise duties. And if you are now thinking about what the price of electricity today is made up of, on which basis it is formed, and which is an input to the stock exchange price, you will understand that the price of fuel is a very important input, especially in those power plants that burn fuel, it is a gas station, a coal station, or an oil-powered power plant. Of course, we don't have them here, but in the Middle East and somewhere further away. And there's the cost of emissions and variable costs. What can we do today, anyway? In principle, we could still regulate the price by saving fuel consumption. However, we do not really have the instruments to control this world market in any way. And when we talk or think that only gas prices have risen, I made an extract here that, in addition to the gas that has increased several times, the price of coal has actually risen. There is no point in being naive and believing that it has not affected the price of oil or the price of uranium either. Let's just say that all prices have risen exponentially, and that will also cause us to increase the price of electricity. And that's it? I see it's not. In fact, if you look at oil, or oil, now, investments in oil production have been halved by almost half since 2014. What does that mean? Take, for example, a car park. If you don't take care of cars, if you don't repair them, if you don't replace them, then at some point you can't use the park or at least you can't use it. And in the case of oil production, the same is actually expected. We hear there's not so much production capacity anymore, we're talking about oil cartels, OPEC, and everyone's guilty of it. That is one way of saying it, but here, in fact, we need to look at today's political context. No one wants to invest in it because the political image and the environment surrounding us are not conducive to dealing with it. It's fossil fuel. And it has created a situation where we have said that we are going to switch to alternative solutions, and then we will no longer invest in conventional energy carriers. And what will be the result? We have actually created a situation where the share of renewable energy is growing exponentially, but it all needs inputs. So that we can build hydrostations or wind farms or solar parks, or that we can actually start using geothermal energy for all of this, after all, we actually need resources. It requires a resource for the production of concrete, it requires a resource for the production of metals and fuels, also in order to move the machinery fleet, electricity requires everything, everything, everything. And it's all actually correlated. Let's just say that the price of energy has escaped the barrier and that there may not be good and quick solutions to lower the price. In addition, pollution charges have increased. The price of CO2 has already exceeded the EUR 60 threshold, although it is estimated that this would only happen in 10 years. But all these things have been the factors that have driven these prices. And in addition, if we look at the market, I made a small extract here from which you can see that prices have also converged in our northern region. Well, they're different here every once in a while. If you look at the northern part of Sweden or the northern part of Norway, you will see that the cost of energy is a bit cheaper there. But to hope that we will have a significant decrease in energy prices is not worthwhile. I don't want to be a pessimist, but by observing this dynamic and knowing that Norway has built a ready cable connection with England, and from this slide you can see what the price of England is today, it is clear why, under open market conditions, should sell energy to an area where the price of energy is cheaper than it is possible to sell it at a higher price. This also shows that there is still room for growth at the price. In fact, it also shows that production capacity or capacity is becoming increasingly scarce. As I have already said, while the regulatory capacity is decreasing, investment is still needed to maintain the system and to operate it. If we do not make these investments, firstly, we risk that the system will cease to work and, secondly, that prices will become much more volatile. In the same way, I understand that if we make investments, the price will be higher. But my message to you today is this: rather, we will still make the necessary investments by ensuring that prices do not go significantly higher. In this way, we will reduce very large price fluctuations. I believe that this is one of the greatest challenges to be faced in the future. I also wondered a little about why the price of gas increased the most and how it affected us. I touched it once at first. The main reason that is being said today is that our European Union reservoirs have been less met than in previous years, that there has been a droughty summer and that there has been little wind. But, in fact, it is still more than just that gas consumption has just increased so much, and not only in Europe, but also China has gone along with the overall climate ambition. Unlike Europe, they have said that they will meet the targets by 2060, but this also means that they have already taken steps to reduce the existing emission levels. How is that the easiest way to do that? This is the easiest thing to do, just as I told you at the beginning, by gradually shifting from coal to gas energy, thus reducing CO2 emissions. But then there's gonna be even more competition to get gas, basically the market works again, right? That if there is more demand, there will also be more wanters who are willing to pay a higher price. That's how these prices go up. And actually, that's one of the reasons why he's still starting to carry coal power. Now, if you look at the price of coal, the increase in coal energy is also due to the fact that volumes are decreasing, but the costs of processing and receiving coal are still the same. Let's just say there is a scale effect at stake, and when the scale effect decreases, prices actually have to rise. And the other side at this higher price is political. Yeah, I agree with that, but the other way around, if there is a market and if there are customers who are willing to pay a more expensive price, why should they sell at a cheaper price? I don't see why, it would be contrary to market rules. What could happen now? Let's see how much of our gas is coming from Russia right now. In order for there to be a redistribution, we will start to consume more LNG, which we may be going to import from, for example, America. But that doesn't mean it's gonna be cheaper. I see a much greater risk here. We are actually seeing today that, with the current decisions that gas is our transitional fuel, its consumption volumes are increasing significantly. So we've got ourselves addicted. We make ourselves dependent on other countries outside the European Union. Actually, I could ask you if you can tell me why we still want to contribute the most to renewable energy. Why are we not dealing with the efficiency of technologies and also developing the use of fossil fuels? Can anyone tell me? It is simply that we do not have these [renewable] resources. It's actually that simple. If we look at shale gas, it may be a little in Poland, but there is basically no gas in Europe. Coal is also low and in fact existing coal plants are either closed or closed. And if there's no oil, what do we do? So we're developing the resources we have to take. But is this right in the Estonian context today? I still dare to question what the dynamics of energy production have been like and what the views have been, I don't know, I'll be an old person soon enough, either 10 or 15 years ago, when I started studying at the university. It has already been said that we will not contribute to the regulated production capacities based on fossil fuels in Estonia's context, because the use of oil shale for energy production by 2015 to 2020 will be zero. It's different now. Our situation would perhaps be quite different if we had invested in time and renewed our production capacities. If you look at the ecological footprint of these old dust-burning blocks, I think we are doing more damage to the environment than we are holding them and deceiving ourselves that they will help us ensure security of supply. It's easier to say we stop using them at all. I understand that these decisions will certainly be difficult, painful and expensive, but we are still taking a step closer to the climate change. Our goal is to save the environment. It can't be that we're betting so much today to improve the environment, but, I don't know, some days or one month a year we use old blocks. That's enough to undo all the work we've done so far. I have been thinking about who is the most advanced and most successful green-turning country, who has contributed the most to this area. And I thought one thing was my story, but another thing is if I can figuratively show you what Germany's energy production is now and how it sees the future. I have put forward a scenario here for the future. In Germany, they are different, but the principle is the same. Let's look at this first graph, it's German power generation in October of this year. You can see that basically half of energy production comes from renewable energy and half is from fossil fuels. Nuclear power has also been taken into account. I mean, the next slide will see it nicely. Here you can see that a very large part of Germany's base load is guaranteed by nuclear power. But if we think that Germany has decided to shut down the coal plants, how many gigawatts will there be? 20 gigawatts! You're gonna take out the nuclear power plants from here. How much do they give now? I think there's actually two gigawatts left. They actually promised to shut down the coal stations this year for 6 gigawatts. All of this actually puts even more pressure on some kind of substitute energy production. And what do they say it is? Gas! All the more so, gas consumption will increase if you look at Germany's primary energy consumption. I also took a look at the week that shows that there has been less wind and the sun, of course, is only in the day. So you actually see, in the example of Germany, who has made a significant contribution to renewable energy, that there is still a very long way to go. And if, in this context, we think that there is still a need to ensure the functioning of the system, do we, in Germany's example, dare say that only 100% of the contribution to renewable energy will help bring down the price or at least keep it stable? The more important question, however, is whether it will help to keep the system running, i.e. to be reliable. All these questions should be answered. Do we have enough of these additional wind and solar parks? Let's just say it's not enough. I would like to give an example of another German study. At the same time, I will also say this, the results of all the studies that have been carried out so far, we can already throw them into the trash because they have been done on other assumptions, on other grounds. They are based on old gas, coal, oil and uranium prices, as well as low CO2 prices. All of today's steps would require new input, new research, economic analysis. Before that, we don't know what to do. And you see, in fact, in its future scenarios, Germany is contributing to wind farms, land and sea wind parks, solar panels, and also, how to say, solar thermal energy. But pay attention! If you look here, they're going to go up to 175 gigawatts in this scenario, if you take even land wind parks, but they're actually contributing to the adjustable capacities at the same time. And if you look at what these capacities are, you will see that, in fact, Germany will not give up coal until at least 2035. There is still a very large increase in the use of gas turbines from there on. But they work on fossil fuels. So you shouldn't think that if we only contribute to renewable energy today, the system will work. You will see, even in the case of Germany, that we must also contribute to the adjustable capacities. What are they like? This is now a decision-making place, but we need to look at the whole system as a whole. Yeah, we can count on the market somebody to do it for us. At the same time, we should realise that, if there is a lot of renewable energy, there are periods where the price of this energy is very cheap. We are perhaps also talking about the so-called 'negative price'. But when does the price of energy go up? When there is no renewable energy. And if we don't have the power we need, then we're gonna have to buy somebody some energy. And does he sell it cheaply? I won't. Consequently, we may also lose the profits that could then be earned and which would contribute to the reliability of the whole system. In order to show that this problem is actually serious, this has highlighted the case of 8 January this year on the European network, where the frequency fluctuated beyond the permitted limits. Firstly, the two large network regions of the European Union separated from each other. This is now a lesson in history and the system has been made more reliable. Firstly, the regions will separate and then local networks will be protected by shut-downs. But what did it really mean, or why did it happen? This was due to the increasing decrease in regulated production capacity. And we also don't have the instruments to keep this frequency as high as it needs to be. And then the system starts protecting itself and starts shutting down. But let's just say that if this frequency eventually goes beyond the permissible limits or over a certain period of time, the whole system is down and it's very difficult to get it going again. This other graph right here is a bit of a bad, dark background. But you can see Nordic energy production: there are nuclear, wind, hydro and thermal power plants that work mainly on fossil fuels. And watch the frequency! We need all these forms of energy production to maintain the quality of the network. And also an example of our Nordic system, the use of wind energy and the fluctuations. You see, 15 gigawatts have even been caught from time to time. But consumption is relatively stable, only a little different nights and days. But there are no major fluctuations. This is a consumption that we cannot guarantee without regulated capacity and storage facilities. If we look at our Baltic countries now, we will see that we have been in a deep deficit. There is scope to invest in both renewable energy and regulated capacities. And what's the situation with the power controls today? As you can see, we have done nothing to have them. And there are fewer and fewer of them. And what shouldn't actually be displayed here, or I shouldn't do, is the Estonian Power Plant and the Baltic Power Plant, because their so-called steam side is basically old. Turbine resources have been exhausted and this will further increase the need for more regulatory capacity. If you look at this right-hand graph, you'll see what the maximum consumption is. And if you're thinking about what I've been saying today, if you know that the power controls are getting smaller and smaller, with the maximum consumption, but nothing has happened, what will happen anyway? Well, I've brought out a scenario here. The thing we do is the efficiency of renewable energy. Is there any way to switch fuel? We cannot do much of that in principle, because we no longer have such capacity. We are a long way from nuclear energy. There will be carbon capture, which will allow fossil fuels to continue to be used in the future. What does that really mean? Now, if we were to build gas stations, we could talk about CO2 emissions, if there are new plants, I don't know, up to 375 kilograms of produced megawatt-hours of electricity. But if you look forward, with the wind, we're somewhere today, that we still have to consider the need for regulation capacity so much that we can achieve with gas turbines, I don't know, 150-250 kilograms per megawatt-hour. In this context, we could still think and actually take a step ahead of Europe. If Germany has said that they will switch to gas, then we could think about how to apply carbon capture technologies. It is expensive, I agree, but if the input prices of gas and other fuels are increasing, it will actually make more sense to apply this technology every day. And here I would even thank the country, because it has also contributed to this area in this context. In March of this year, we completed a climate study of RITA. We examined the technologies for carbon capture and storage when using existing production capacities in the oil shale industry. If one new power was built, how much would it pay, and what would emissions be? We found that if the objective was to implement capacity over the next five years, this price could be EUR 76+ per tonne of CO2 caught. When you think about how much we have to pay for CO2 pollution, it seems pretty close, especially if we look to the future. Here's one more slide of where the boundaries are. If we use only oil shale, we are talking about the megawatt-hours of electricity produced from 150 to 170 kilograms, if we use oil shale. What was not included in this study is ash. If you think about how much cement is being used in the world - 4 billion tonnes - then there are 2.3 gigatons of CO2 per year. If we take away the ashes and contribute to research and development to produce cement from it, then we can also dismantle this part of electricity production and cement production can be shown to be more environmentally friendly. In the context of this study, we also actually considered that if half the wood is used, a negative emission can also be achieved. And actually the same thing can be achieved if we use ash. A negative emission can then be achieved in the cement industry. This cannot actually be achieved by other conventional technologies. I'd be happy to tell you more about the benefits later. Now I've been telling you what the components of the price of electricity are. But my proposal today is also that we should also begin to differentiate network charges, depending on the way in which electricity is produced. I know that there is a desire to differentiate between consumers: ordinary consumers and large industrial users. The losses are different. Yeah, I agree. But in fact, network charges should be differentiated precisely in the context that yes, wind energy and solar energy are cheap, but in order for the system to work, investment needs to be made. And therefore, the consumption of these energies should also be more expensive. Their network charges should be more expensive. For those offering regulated capacities, the network charges should be cheaper. I get it, I think I've got a lot of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U9	Yeah, time's up, but we can definitely talk these things out of the question-answers round.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U10	I have a nice summary ahead of me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U11	Yeah, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U12	You see that meeting climate ambitions is actually very resource-intensive and costly. We understand this and we have to realise that meeting these targets is not cheap and that large price fluctuations are the future if we do not contribute to the regulated capacities. We must also take into account that we have examples from this year that, even if the price of energy is even $9,000 per megawatt-hour, as was the case in Texas, people are still forced to consume it in order to prevent major disasters, the freezing of pipelines and everything else to keep life alive. We must act in such a way that there are no such great fluctuations at all. In fact, the last key message is that we learn from the mistakes of others and contribute to the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U13	Thank you very much. It is now possible to go to questions and answers. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have always watched your performances with great enthusiasm, gained a great deal of knowledge. My question specifically concerns an area such as CO2 emissions, which is then, in principle, traded under quotas and which somewhat resembles trade in snowflakes. I also asked our finance minister yesterday what would happen if Estonia left trading in the CO2 quota system. And there was no normal answer, and there was a very vague statement that this would affect our security and so on. But I also know that representatives of the Kunda plant visited the European Union Affairs Committee and said that the situation was catastrophic. But the specific question: what would happen if we left the CO2 trading system?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U15	It's going out of my knowledge as an energy expert. Rather, it is a political question. I do not think that the countries that remain in this system would make us enjoyable beyond this system. Rather, I still think that some kind of consensus should be found. And that's what I didn't get to say today, that I myself doubt that this stock market approach, looking forward to the future, is the right one. I'd rather not. And if we now go back from the stock exchange system to a regulated system where, for example, the Competition Authority would coordinate these prices, I think that, first of all, quota charges would once again become reasonable or would not be needed. And if you're asking why, it's because there should be other principles today. We should consume the energy that has the least impact on the environment and pay a higher price for it. And then by the hanger track, there would be those production units in the system that have more impact on the environment, but maybe they're a little bit cheaper. But this is how we can achieve these goals. Today, in fact, we do not have any control mechanism in place to have exactly the production units that we want in place and the environmental impact that we need. I think that we should go one step back and abandon this market system. Especially when you think back on my presentation and realize that the market benefits have disappeared or are disappearing, that there are no regulated capacities, and therefore everyone must also contribute to the regulatory capacities. It is up to us to decide whether we want to contribute to our own development or whether we rely on others.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U16	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for a thorough and very informative presentation. My question might be to the next performer, but I will still put it to you now, perhaps the next performer will complement. What would happen at the price of electricity, what size level of investment should we consider and how much this would affect our energy security and energy supply if we started to develop a plan and invest in covering the land with local cogeneration plants that work on chipped wood, biofuels and other such local sources? This would create independence on the one hand, but also diversity in the energy market on the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U18	Thank you. That's a good question. I actually wanted to talk about the cogeneration plants and the benefits. The principle of operation of cogeneration plants, what is that? I'll see if I have any spare slides. The principle of a cogeneration plant is that we save primary energy and also produce fewer emissions. We need heat for heating houses and industry, and we also need electricity. The principle should actually be that the cogeneration plant covers heat according to a consumption schedule which should vary from year to year and also produces electricity with a significantly lower required volume in the summer months. Electricity consumption is also lower in summer. But today, we have exhausted the potential of cogeneration plants. If you ask me what I mean by that, then it actually means that we do not have heat consumers of this size or size who need to generate this heat. And now I'm getting to the other thing I wanted to talk about: the benefits. What, then, is the efficiency of the condensing power plant or the efficiency of the power plant and what is the efficiency of the cogeneration plant and why cannot and must not be compared? They must not be compared because they have a fundamentally different reader. The denominator is the same, but the reader is different. This means that there are different principles. In one case, in the case of efficiency, we will look at the amount of electricity and heat produced, how much we will give to this system. And when we're talking about power generation, I've got Carnot's formula here somewhere, which is one way to go. Now, if you're asking me why, for example, oil shale blocks at Narva stations have an efficiency of 40%, this is thermodynamics. Carnot has defined that the cooling temperature that can be reached is zero Kelvin. Can we achieve zero Kelvin? No, so we have already given up very much in terms of efficiency. But this is just to describe the ring process, which means that if we take today, how much could it be, say, about 273 Kelvins is the temperature of the cooler, then how can we move this efficiency? We can move it when the heat carrier, or vapour temperature, is higher. And that's where the steam temperatures are 560 degrees. We could go higher. Why don't we go? Because we have not contributed to research and development. Give money, we find metals, and it is also possible to make oil shale electricity production more efficient. But the most important thing I want to point out to you is that none of the Estonian cogeneration plants, I told you that together there is electricity and heat, the efficiency of electricity production is not more than 30%. Can we also apply cogeneration in Narva, for example, with oil shale boilers? Yes, it is. But where do we put the heat? Here's another nuance. And now, if we still want to get this volume of electricity, we're taking even 300 megawatts, we're going to have two thirds more fuel to switch to the cogeneration mode. So two thirds goes more oil shale or biomass or whatever else. So actually, when we go into the cogeneration mode, fuel consumption is increasing. But why do we switch to cogeneration if we really don't have somewhere to put this heat? So the basic message is this: please do not compare these benefits! And in this context, if today's objective is to produce electricity, the efficiency of wood-fired power generation is highest in oil shale boilers. Yes, in boilers, please don't be wrong, oven and boiler, these are very different things, let alone a steam boiler. Here's a very important terminological question, I want to understand what you're thinking, and you want to understand what I'm thinking. In this context, since the steam parameters are higher, we can also extract electricity from biomass with higher efficiency. Let's just say that these are different things and there is no more potential for cogeneration plants in Estonia. That's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U19	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U20	Thank you. I, too, want to thank you for this report. I'd like to see slide number 16. Did you know that? - Yeas, we know. We know that. We also know that Russia is using its energy carriers to achieve geopolitical objectives. The increase in gas prices is directly related to this. Although Mr Putin confirmed a few days ago that Russia would never use an energy carrier as a weapon, it is precisely because it is using it. The aim was to show that Nord Stream 2 is in the interests of Europe and not in the interests of Russia. That's why he raised the price. But my question relates to Estonia. 40% of European gas comes from Russia. What about Estonia? How can we diversify our dangers here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U21	Thank you. Well, we can actually count on the assistance of Latvia, where there are gas reservoirs, and we can also count on LNG. But in the case of LNG, we need to understand that, first of all, it requires very low temperatures, specific storage conditions, and, in addition to everything else, we are spending energy to get liquefy. It also causes environmental impacts. But there is also the cost of gas: if it is a liquefied natural gas and if we do not consume it, that gas will or will disappear. So there are really no good opportunities in this context either. Indeed, we can count on America to deliver LNG. But is it wise to go on a very large volume of gas in the first place? I'd rather not. I'd save the gas for places where he's much more valuable. Gas is valuable in the food industry, even if it is made of bread-and-bread. The regulation of processes is very important and there is no need for all kinds of by-products, which means that gas is ideal there. I think that if gas can be stored in places where it is more needed to use gas, even in the chemical industry, we should keep it for these areas. In my opinion, it would be more sensible to produce energy using other energy sources.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U22	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U23	Thank you for your interesting presentation. When it comes to the possibility of transition, gas, we have quite a lot of shale gas, even though I think it's stuck. The first part of the question: would it be worth dealing with in Estonia, precisely there in Ida-Virus? But the second is that you talked a little bit about the storage power, but not for a long time. We have been betting on sea wind parks where we can brew them into hydrogen, but what is the real state of this storage capacity and efficiency? Bet on them in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U24	Thank you for your question. I think I'd like to stop for a slide. I can't tell you the number, but it's about German energy production in the tenth week. It shows the period during which there have been no renewable energy sources. In the case of recording technology, the most important thing is that these volumes are such that they can be compensated for half a day to a day. However, the required capacities are so large that we do not have the technical capability first. Technology already exists in the same way, but we forget to take into account how much energy we spend on producing everything, what the ecological footprint is, and whether it is actually reasonable in this context, given the lifetime of the capacities. And let me give you another example: this is a hydro pumping station planned in Paldiski, Estonia. The power is very good, 500 megawatts would be fine. But if you look at the example of Germany, for how many days the wind hasn't blown for three days, and if we're talking about 500 megawatts, then that 500 megawatts we have to take 15,5 hours. And if you think about today's context where this station should work, it will still not be built to make the system more reliable for the whole country. There's an economic approach. Peak energy is now the most expensive, which means that this station rather contributes more to peak energy. But yes, I agree that it certainly also contributes to the need for base power at some other point in time than the peak. But these volumes aren't what we need. Look again at the example of Germany. We're talking gigawatts. 1 gigawatt is 1000 megawatts. And if you see here that, in the meantime, you're still going to fall off for example 40 gigawatts or 30 gigawatts, and nuclear power is going away from here, then today's batteries won't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U25	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U26	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Well, a few remarks before the question. After all, no one has ever thought that cogeneration plants could be a solution to energy security. Of course, they are mainly for heat production and electricity is rather such a positive by-product. And in terms of primary energy consumption, however, they are effective, unlike power plants, where most of the primary energy goes into the river. You can't argue with that. You said that these regulated capacities are not being developed in Europe because we do not have fossil fuels in Europe. However, the main reason is another: what climate scientists say about what is threatening us if we do not give up fossil fuels very quickly. You got that in the back of your whole report. Do you not believe, like the callers, that climate change is man-made, or do you think we still have a lot of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U27	Thank you for your question. I'm glad you brought up the question of efficiency. That's the story that was actually addressed directly to you. You can come to college and show me how this 60% of energy is wasted today in the Narva River or somewhere else. You're saying primary energy consumption at cogeneration plants is more efficient... If we take electricity generation, in this context, if there were the same conditions, if there were 40% power generation in a cogeneration plant, then we could talk about you saving primary energy somehow. But you have to make sure the terms are the same. The comparison shall always be made in such a way that heat and electricity are produced under the same conditions. If you put them together, you will look at electricity generation at 30% efficiency and heat production at 90% efficiency. If you now compare that there are 30% of electricity generation in Narva with 40% of electricity production, then there are different conditions and you cannot compare them. If you ask whether the [climate crisis] is man-made, then yes, people have a clear impact on today's climate change. But what you are not telling us is what has happened in relation to the fact that even the price of gas has increased significantly. Has consumption decreased or increased? In order for us to achieve the expected result with climate ambitions, all of this must first be adopted by the people. People have to agree to this, and that means that people must have been able to have a say in how we solve it. And it must be within our reach. Today, we have both basically unsolved questions: we have not been asked how, in today's context, in the most rational way we could begin to meet these climate targets. And this must also be done in a global context. There shouldn't be the approach we have today. I keep hearing from companies in Estonia, industrial companies, for example, that there is no point in producing in Estonia, because it is so expensive here. They're going somewhere else. And why is it less expensive to produce elsewhere? Because environmental requirements are significantly lower there. It actually means we get them out of here, we don't motivate them to produce them here. If we were to persuade them, I do not know what measures to remain here, we would achieve a much greater effect. We'd save the environment. But today it is basically that we do not produce, we are produced for us, but we say that we are meeting climate ambitions. Unfortunately, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U28	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U29	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I am interested in the increase in Russian influence throughout this process, the increase in prices, the green turn of Germany and elsewhere. We see that, at current high prices, we actually buy Russian electricity through Finland. And the amount of electricity produced by these fossil fuels is actually increasing. Perhaps the most classic example is Nord Stream 2, how much the so-called German herbal cords will actually depend on Russian fossil fuels. It's a big bluff: they advertise that we're turning, but they're turning to the oil and gas fields in Urengo. Where's the green turn? Where is this renewable energy when [gas] is coming from Russia? And I would like to remind you that Lithuania also became dependent on Russia's energy when the Ignalina station was shut down. How quickly and how much of this influence can Russia begin to grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U30	Well, Russia's influence has already increased, and it will certainly continue to grow. On the one hand, yes, we can produce more than renewable energy sources, but since regulated capacities are decreasing, the more I think third countries will gain influence over us. Otherwise the system wouldn't work. Let's just say one thing is a political aspect, but I always go into technical indicators, that is, the substance of the matter. If you think about how much Russia has invested in upgrading production capacity, then there is not much. What have they got there? They have old gas stations, old coal stations. They've started using coal less and less. About what? Is it because they're shutting down the stations, or what do you think? No, I'm not. What do they use in coal boilers? They use gas in coal boilers. And now, if you think about what the benefits are, the benefits of electricity generation are 25 to 35% in condensing power plants. And then, if today, in Russia, electricity is produced from gas with an efficiency of 20%, 25% or 30%, the savings that come from, for example, CO2 are zeroed out. Then we can compare that our old dust-burning blocks are equivalent in terms of emissions to those that work in Russia at coal plants that have been transferred to gas. Moreover, existing gas power plants are not as efficient as they could be. A few years ago, I looked at a study carried out by the World Energy Council, which actually stated a very simple fact: basically, if existing coal plants were to be activated and more modern technologies were to be used, then 10% of the otherwise emerging CO2 emissions could be prevented. We haven't dealt with it. If we're [comparing] with an apple tree, for example, it's like an apple that can be picked from below. All these things have actually been done today. A colleague of yours asked why we are not doing anything. These are the steps that we should take in parallel. We should also make available production capacities effective, because otherwise it is the situation that we are making as much effort as possible in one place, but by failing to do so in another place, we are zeroing out the effort that has been made elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U31	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Professor Konis, a very interesting presentation. We all know, and it is also clear from your report that there is no country that is absolutely similar to another country in terms of its possibilities and perhaps its ambitions. At the end of your presentation, you will make a final statement that we will learn from the mistakes and experiences of others. But you have examples from Germany and Texas, which, as we know, are in no way comparable to Estonia. What mistakes do you recommend to learn quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U33	I suggest you learn... Actually, these examples, let's say I agree with you, they're all different. But we all have a working principle or a working principle in common: regulated capacities and unregulated capacities. How we keep these regulated capacities running or how we generate them is different in countries. But we can still learn that in order to use these unregulated capacities, to use them to a large extent and to ensure that the system is reliable, regulated capacities are needed. The German example is actually because, if you look at it, it is also correlated: the more we contribute to the regulated capacities, the more we get the unregulated capacity. Which means that if we have the objective of significantly increasing the share of renewable energy, we can go to even larger numbers there if we also have more regulated capacities. And that's something we could learn from others. The example of Germany and the example of Texas is also important in this context that [they] show that if the regulated capacities disappear, the system will cease to function. And that's not what we want. This is not really regulated by today's market, and that is why I also proposed that network charges should be differentiated if we stick to the stock exchange approach. This also creates some incentive for local companies to operate with regulated production capacities. They can then, I don't want to use the English term, but they get top-up. If we're gonna use the synchronised compensators tonight, I'm gonna ask you why. In fact, we could differentiate network charges and order a service from the one who owns the regulated capacities. It maintains the necessary frequency, so it also keeps its production capacities running, but it does not compete at the price of electricity. But if we were to pay the network fee so that it will have a lower network fee then the price volatility will also be lower and it will be in the market or it will be in the system. We should very seriously consider the differentiation of network charges. I agree that producing energy from the sun and the wind is cheap. But in order for our system to work, we need to put more resources in there. And if that's not included in the price, we think that why we haven't dealt with it before, you see, it's so cheap. But for the system to work, something must be used in parallel somewhere. And then the question is, is this 1,000 megawatts today? I say, one way or another, it's not reliable. It's the same thing if you have a can of jam in the basement and you think jam is there, but you're going to take a scissors. Today we have these production capacities that have been depreciation in Narva. You're gonna go for a minute, you wanna start up, and what's gonna happen? Maybe it won't start. Or it won't work when we need it. These capacities should still be what we can be sure of. Not the way the company hopes to make a profit when the price is high, but it doesn't start, nothing happens. We should still ensure that the system works all the time. But who really should be responsible for this? If you are looking at Eesti Energia, it must bring revenue to the state. So why does he have to deal with an undertaking that's cost and damage for him? It should be motivated in some way, and all components should also be shown honestly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U34	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U35	Thank you. Mr. Professor! You have been shown to illustrate the organizer's agenda that there is nothing wrong with the health of the world and that the prices of electricity must be fixed there at 25 euros and the wire must be pulled out compared to other countries. Fortunately, you have distanced yourself from the very beginning from the possibility that prices can be brought down, as the organisers claim, and, frankly, neither did climate ambitions. However, you support non-market regulation. Tell me, you didn't open it to what kind of difficulties you're going to see. However, the world is turning very clearly towards climate ambitions. How do you see the possibility of cutting yourself out of the market and introducing some very different regulation in Estonia? Do you see any administrative or substantive, technical difficulties?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U36	Thank you. In my activities, I am autonomous and apolitical. If you invite me, I'll always be happy to talk, and I'll talk about things the way I see them as an expert and as a professor today. In this context, no one has directed me anywhere. And if you ask me, I hope I understood the question correctly, whether the price should be fixed, or if you said I didn't say that it should be fixed, then certainly the price could be fixed today, in my opinion, by the Competition Authority. We have been in a regulated system before 2013, a regulated market. Was it worse? In this context, when you think about what the megawatt-hour price was then, it was 30 something plus euros. Yes, today it would also be the case, let's say that all kinds of variable costs have been increased to the cost of pollution, which was certainly not at that time. But it is certainly there in this context and this system could somehow begin to be controlled. But why am I saying there should be a more closed system? An example of today's [crisis] situation between countries. We had an agreement that national borders would not be closed. And what happened? I guess today we can go to America if I want to go as a tourist. I think we're getting it. But also in the European Union, if problems still arise within countries, countries will close. The same is certainly happening in the energy system: if there is little energy, the energy market will not work. Countries satisfy their energy needs and, if there is anything left, they will also give to others. And I say take a look at European statistics. In fact, we were shown in a bad light from the point of view of European statistics. We have significantly reduced our independent production capacity. We should draw our own conclusions from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U37	Thank you very much for the waitress. The time for questions and answers has run out, and the next questioners have to ask the following waitress. Thank you. Now the doctor of technical sciences, Arvi Hamburg, member of the Energy Commission of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, will be able to perform, whose presentation will also last 30 minutes and there will be 30 minutes for questions and answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U38	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It is a great honour and a great pleasure to perform here. This is precisely the day when the price of electricity has fallen from 260 euros to 11 o'clock to 220 euros. Our debate has obviously been useful. But seriously, thank you for the thought of having such a debate, thank you to the inviters and organisers. My report's a little bit simpler now that Professor Koni talked about the basics more or less. On the other hand, I find it a little difficult to perform because the slides coming up on the wall show a little bit of the other [picture] when they're printed out there for you. I'm trying to talk out of printed slides because [they're fresher]. My background is that I worked 21 years in Eesti Energia and 10 years in the public service [in MKM], the next 11 years in Eesti Gaas and then 10 years in the technical university. So I should have an overview of entrepreneurship, public and private entrepreneurship, the public sector and academic life. First, maybe a couple of pictures, which were on Alar Konist. I do not think that there is any point in arguing about this or arguing about it. Like a peasant's mind, what the world is like today. The global picture was that last year, 2020 the share of fossil fuels was 83%. Is it possible, and if so, how can it be reduced or abandoned in European conditions? The next picture is about electricity generation, which we are talking about more today. Here, 61% of fossil fuels are made up of fossil fuels. Now we should go ahead and see where these 39% come from. We know that there is water, or hydropower, and nuclear power. We'll put them on, and we won't be too short, the wind and the sun will be 6% and 3%. Biofuels are, of course, things that we consider to be carbon-free in the European Union today, but in fact, they have higher specific carbon emissions than oil shale and peat. So if we still really want to cut greenhouse gases in the world, then we have to think about it. We were also talking about the structure of energy production in different countries. Of course, if the ancient god has given mountains or rivers, then the country has hydropower. In our case, he's been a little bit stingy, it's been more generous to the Finns, and it's given the Latvians a little bit of Daugava's face. So if we look at this picture just visually, we can see that our northern neighbours have a pretty good cake like this with different sources of primary energy. Let's get more specific now. What's our status today? We have a local resource for oil shale, we have a hundred-year experience of using oil shale, we have good knowledge of [in this field]. We have the resource, the ability to use it, and the knowledge of how to use it. But today's situation is that, for reasons you know, we're in a deep minus, we've become a state buying in electricity. On the basis of these tables, you can see how much we have in terms of [electricity generation] renewable sources and how much oil shale is involved. So even for the small part that we produce ourselves, the share of oil shale is lower and the share of renewable sources is higher. [In environmental improvement] we have been, I would say, extremely successful. We have set very high targets, higher than the European Union, and we have met those targets. If you look at this table, you will see that we are at the forefront of reducing CO2 emissions in the European Union. Of course it can be argued that the base year is 1990 and then the production was second, the market was second, etc., the plants were newer. But the fact remains a fact. Europe is compared to 1990, and in this we are undoubtedly in the end last year with a reduction of almost 65% [the most successful country of the European Union]. The price of CO2 was already mentioned. Here is a table containing gas prices, oil prices and CO2 quota prices. The picture's the same as Alar Kon. Here is now one of these slides, which shows a comparison of the prices of electricity and natural gas from January this year to today. Blue shows natural gas and black or dark electricity. And what can we say? The table is written, but the first conclusion is that if we see an increase in electricity prices a little over two times compared to the same period last year, the gas price has already risen about four times by now. And if you go any further from here, on your right, Gaspool, the Dutch gas exchange TTF and Get Baltic gas exchange forecasts. These are the three stock exchanges where Estonia buys gas, choosing between the three. Here, the price of the Dutch gas exchange is forecast to be not today's EUR 29 or EUR 30 in the coming winter, but EUR 130-140 in MWh. EUR 130 is estimated to be EUR 140 by November and December, January and February. Then the price starts to fall and will reach about EUR 50 in May. Electricity prices have the same forecast. What do I mean by that? What I want to say is that electricity prices and gas prices will certainly no longer fall to the level they have been, but they will remain 2 to 2.5 times as high as they were last year. And the story that the cold winter gets past and the wind starts blowing, the sun shines, and everything gets beautiful, optimism is nice, and optimists are great, but reality is [hardest]. I made a price comparison. It is important to [analyze] what are the components of the final energy price. Alar Konis has already shown the energy price structure. One is the price of goods on the market, it is electricity or gas, the other is Estonia's own regulated network charge, which is a natural monopoly, and the third is taxes imposed by the Estonian state. Taxation is subject to EU restrictions, but basically two parts of the structure are still in our own hands: taxes and regulated network charges. The eighth table in your possession on page 4 shows a certain price comparison. We talk a lot about the percentage of the price increase and that it increases twice or four times, but a person has to have a clearer picture of how big this real exit is anyway. The worst part of the price increase will affect two types of domestic consumers. Of course, the increase in prices affects each of us, right, industry, of course. We cannot say that domestic consumers are in the worst position. But electric-fired dwellings and gas-fired private homes are the ones that are still hit very seriously. Statistics say that gas-fired private homes account for about 10% of all households and 15% of all households have electricity. I took the example of my neighbours here: the average monthly consumption of electricity-fired private land is 1500 kWh per month. Last year he paid EUR 174 a month, this year he has to pay EUR 322 already in September. It's a 1.85-fold slope. The rise is slightly less than the increase in electricity's own price, precisely because taxes and network charges have remained the same. And the second comparison is central heating for a 2-to 3-room apartment. While last September the end-user price was EUR 35.5, this September the cost is EUR 63. But as I said, these prices are definitely not yet on the ceiling. In the case of gas, it is absolutely clear that it is not on the ceiling, and it still means very serious thinking. A lot of talk about wind. Here is a picture of the state of use in Estonia. Alar Konist showed how things are in the entire region, but here is the production of Estonian windmills. According to this schedule, no one is expected to be willing to consume, so there must be a regulating power that we can debug non-steering bouncing power generation. Let us now try to understand these reasons for the rise in prices. If you could shape a long view, that would be great. But first you should position yourself, know your condition. To this end, the state of the country or region must be monitored. First of all, I think that we have tried to influence the market with command-economic political decisions, and that is why we have violated market regulation. Another reason could be that, with the entry of non-controlled production into the market, the need for regulatory capacity will increase. Based on emissions, countries have shifted to less emission fuel, that is natural gas. The prices of all other fuels have risen from here. Of course, there are also objective reasons for what to say. Really, last winter was rough and the summer was warm, the water was scarce. Statistics say that the Nordic hydro resource was..21 TWh. Estonia's consumption is just under 8 TWh. It has still been a very large underage of water reservoirs. Of course, this year's conditions have also sought to achieve [the objectives]. CO2 quotas on the market will be reduced and free quotas will, of course, no longer exist. The second factor that affects the trade in CO2 quotas is that if you look at how this trade works, there are a lot of so-called financial investors who buy up quotas. We'll call them whatever they want, but we'll be polite to say they're brokers. Business activities have arisen between the price of quotas, which should not be allowed. What else? I don't know what else to say about this. The next issue is what is at the heart of energy. The balance in the energy economy is fundamental. On your fifth page there is one triangle that shows the interaction between security of supply, affordability and environmental change. Security of supply means that energy, be it what it is, must be available at all times in the amount required for us. Next thing you know, he's got to be affordable, so we can buy it in the first place. Technology allows a lot, but do you want to match the consumer's wallet? And the third factor is the environment. If we take this triangle out of balance, there is no point in blaming the market. We have, by our own political decisions, pushed the energy economy out of balance. At the moment, we are a little overstretched by a single parameter in the triangle, and we are faced with the fact that affordability is no longer guaranteed. There is no single European or European Union energy market, much of which is said. Different regions have different prices and different prices also exist in the Baltic States, not to mention the Nordic countries and other continental Europe. One more remark on renewable energy. Surely renewable energy is something that needs to be developed and developed, both for us and for others. We've had a little glitch here by the Department of Defense and for other reasons, but they've already been eliminated. So I'm sure there'll be more wind farms in the sea and on land. But let's see what happened. The renewable energy charge was introduced in 2007. Then we started paying for it. Renewable energy has risen seven times and it has come out of the consumer's pocket. How much progress we've made on this, isn't it a point of thought or analysis? I am not the one telling us whether we have also received better technology, better quality and cheaper energy for this reward. You can think for yourself. The next issue is the stability and production of wind farms. It's very clear today. We have wind farms with a capacity of 330 MW. How do they work? If we look at this year again, we see that they have a coefficient of use of 25%. This means that wind farms account for 25% of 330 MW capacity. So 75% of the energy must come from somewhere else. The renewable energy fee is on average EUR 100 million per year, which our consumer pays, Elering distributes this renewable energy fee among producers. In 2021 it is planned to reach 90.1 million. Now what? A bit of a philosophical question about what we have here. Again, we ourselves, the legislator in this Chamber as well as in other halls, should think about whether it is theoretically possible to abandon fossil fuels at all. All of you, including me, are dressed for oil. Maybe we'll go over to fibre pulp and get some paper clothes, but it'll take a little while. By the way, VKG is planning to build such a pulp factory. Energy inputs - this is my subjective opinion - we do not have enough. We do not have enough energy sources to increase GDP all the time and thus participate in the ranking. At the same time, urbanisation and globalisation are well known to you, so the next problem is logistics. We're gonna move the merchandise from one place to another, get strawberries from Greece, and get something back from here. Next, electricity consumption is bound to increase, no matter what we think about it. Why is it increasing? Electricity is the most convenient form of energy, its use is most convenient, so its consumption will certainly increase. But when it comes to recording and transportation, the batteries, and all of this, we also have to consider where this metal comes from. We're talking lithium batteries, where's the lithium? What is the world's supply of lithium, and who has the discoveries? I think we should think about it again. If you look at the technologies that we proudly say today that we are going to start with the batteries and hydrogen technology, etc., then look at history. These are all technologies, not the last one, but the last one. We haven't invented very advanced technology anywhere. And the last thing that's not for me to say is that there have been wars for energy before and today, and I'm afraid there will be wars in the future. Now, here's a picture that also tells us about our energy balance. Professor Konis told us how our adjustable power's going down. Here you can see with your numbers all the power plants we have today and what we predict will continue to work. Last year we were still in surplus with 215 MW, but in 2031 we are almost 1,000, or 900 MW, minus. Why 2031? Because additional capacity will fall out in 2030. Now that we're thinking about the future, today we're dealing with the consequences. But it would be better to think ahead and into the future so that such situations, such price shocks, do not arise. Here we need to make it very clear to ourselves that a cleaner climate requires much more money. And now our own question is how we set these values for ourselves. Are we willing to pay more? Are we willing to give up comfort, even partially? It is such a matter of outlook or attitude. Next is a purely technical question. We were only 2% energy dependent, which means that Estonia was practically energy independent. Now we are becoming increasingly dependent on energy from elsewhere every year. Question: what does that mean? Certainly, regulatory capacities, or controlled capacities, must come to the system. I would argue that the more non-regulatory power comes, the greater the need for regulatory power. All the circular economy that we have today in the oil shale sector, from the use of ash, from the rubble of all this, let alone the chemical industry, is certainly one of Estonia's future opportunities. And what I'm saying is that with business closures, with orders, we don't improve the climate. Still, it's the technologies that have to go on this day. Surely our future is, as we say, a combined energy mix. I would like to look at another aspect for about three minutes: that we should anticipate, not deal with the consequences. We've got a four-D movement in electro-energy. One is what we have talked about a lot today: decarbonisation, carbon-free production. The next is decentralisation, distributed production, which was also a question. The third is desynchronous, which means changing the synchronous area of the electricity system. And fourth is digitalization. We really need to think about whether we have the strength. One very wise person has asked one great man if there is still enough gunpowder for these four Ds, if there is still some sense, money, and opportunity. And here's a picture where the red crosses mark the break-up points for the electricity system from the Russian and Belarusian systems. Next slide. Here's a picture that shows where we are today. This is now the next triangle. We were talking about the equilibrium triangle. That's the triangle we're in today. I do not want to argue that we must, in any case, maintain the current situation. The Treaty of Lisbon of the European Union says that Member States must have common infrastructures and common principles, but any change also requires a very thorough analysis of three areas: social, political and economic risk. We need to know that. As a result of planning our ten-year unification, one side of the triangle, which passes through the Baltic States, has been shifted with Russian Federation investments on the other side of Lake Peipsi. In fact, the Estonian electricity system is no longer needed in Russia, and it can be given by God that it will not do this one day to say that I will help you, we will separate ourselves from the Baltic electricity system, so be on your own. And then we're in a pretty complicated situation. Now, what would these price relief suggestions be? The first would probably be to look at the national taxes included in the energy end-user price package. Surely the country should now still face the consumer and see what can be done. The first one is the renewable energy charge, but it is not a classic tax, but it can be considered that way. This should not be collected by consumers from EUR 100 million. For this reason, this source of cover is very simple. The price of the CO2 quota has increased, electricity production has increased due to high prices, and now more quotas have been bought, so more money will be received from the state budget than from the emissions trade. There's talk of an overload of about 120 million. So I'm sure my proposal would be to give it up. The second proposal is the VAT reduction proposed in the past. A reduction in VAT from 20% to 9% would mean that we would reduce the consumer's final balance by 11%. And the source of this relief would be the same value added tax, which is actually more due to higher electricity prices. If you look at this table, there's electricity prices on page four, that's where it's coming out. The third one, which we could certainly review, would be the decision to shut down oil shale energy. If we have now decided to close down electricity and oil production at different times, then the decision to close down electricity generation will actually end oil shale energy. The question is whether it is reasonable. Do we have anything to replace in energy, politics and socio-economic terms? This should be discussed and taken very seriously of the requirement made by the previous government today that Eesti Energia should maintain the regulated capacity of 1000 MW. It's very good, and it'll help us manage today. But the question is, it's valid until 2023. I don't think there's gonna be any relief. We must definitely extend this requirement. And the decision to close means not to invest. The accident of our oil shale capacity is increasing because they are not invested in it, and they must be repaired. And, of course, what has been said a great deal about: 350 million of fair transitions are not enough to simply change the structure of the oil shale region's labour market by comparing environmental resources, all taxes and so on. You're not gonna do anything with that money. Alar Konist had many German examples here. Take a similar region of Germany, a coal area, to move it, one step more money has been put in motion. So, what else is domestic? There is certainly a need to develop energy economy research. I am thinking here of technology, recording, new technologies, and, in the case of fossil fuels, capture, use, storage. Network charges should certainly be differentiated according to the structure of energy production. That's pretty sure. Perhaps the possibility of time shifting investments in network charges should also be reviewed. KredEx, quite clearly, energy efficiency is one important thing. But the amount currently planned for the housing fund or building fund through KredEx is 50 years of renovation of buildings. Some buildings will collapse before they can be renovated. At the same time, maybe it's pretty good. And, of course, a compensation mechanism must be developed for the poorer part of the population. Long-term measures are those that should also be negotiated with the European Union's partners. The first is an analysis of the entire emissions trading system. I'm not saying that this system is wrong, but what I'm saying is that this system is not working today. Why isn't he working? First of all, the reasons should be understood, analysed. And, of course, together with our partners, we also need to think about whether we can improve the world with our 8% or 9%. This trade in emissions should also extend to other countries. And maybe you could get a free quota on a temporary basis. Of course, I doubt that very much. However, in any case, the system must be reviewed, even for the simple reason that, when this system was made, the price of CO2 was €15/20, today is €60. The situation has simply changed and feedback is relevant in every instance. In shaping energy policy, we should always be careful not to have one specific section that windmills provide electricity without money. Good, yeah, the wind doesn't ask for money. But where did this windmill come from, and where does this windmill go, or the solar panel? The whole cycle of life must always be taken into account; all things must be compared. But you can still compare things on equal terms. In order to mitigate the risks, we need the widest possible energy portfolio, with a large number of primary energy types in both national and regional views. One slide here also showed that this is the case in other countries. And thirdly, we still have to agree on what this declared solidarity between European countries means. If one country is in crisis and has no energy, does it really work? I don't think it's enough to want or believe. There should be a very clear set of rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U39	Dear doctor, we're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U40	But then it is that I have, if you'll allow me, only one such idea. The government has come up, I understand, with two relief measures yesterday. The first is to shift the network service fee to half and the second is to compensate. Well, I'm not talking about compensation, it's pretty clear we have to compensate. But I don't quite understand it, let's just say that. I don't know if I agree or don't because I don't understand. Network charges are based on reasonable costs and we cannot lower justified costs. We can look through the Competition Authority, which confirms the prices, whether these fees are really justified, whether the investments are timed, whether the investments are essential or not. In this sense, this decision is complicated. And there is the so-called four-man proposal. I'm a hundred percent convinced that VAT should go down. In my opinion, it is possible and it is an objection that it is instigating the entire tax system, of course, I am not a tax specialist, but I think that all taxes can be played in a crisis and come out of the crisis. My last sentence is that all measures must be taken together, not alone, separately, with all the measures that I have read here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U41	Thank you very much. Now we can go to the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U42	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! This last government proposal, which is based on the fact that out of EUR 100, the net fee will be 41 - a bigger pot and we will take half of it - well, I am not an evaluator here, but thank you for that remark. But coming back to the oil shale, our brown gold, which has a very long experience in using it, and with which it is possible to preserve our energy independence: what should it do with energy in mind? Would you strangle it, accept it, or [preserve] this 1000 MW, just in case, for longer than 2023? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U43	What should we do with oil shale energy? That's how I understand the question. The first question is whether we should be ahead of the European locomotive and set faster deadlines than Europe has set. Running ahead of a locomotive is always dangerous, you can get under it. A win-time would mean that we should focus and still contribute to the development of technology. [Replacement technologies are not yet market mature. ] What is possible today? The previous report made it very clear that it is still possible to capture, clean, store, transport and use carbon. About 30 years ago Endel Lippmaa asked why you're fighting carbon, you have to use carbon, you have to pick it up, use it and sell it on the market. It's our sales item. I also think that this is an opportunity. It is also essential to keep [Soilstone Capacity] in reserve. Why am I saying there's no point in rushing into deadlines? During this time, other technologies will also be available. The primary is the need to store renewable electricity, but how do you save when it takes 50 units of energy to get 35 units back. That's getting green hydrogen on electrolysis. Such a process exists and would need to be used, but it means that there should be at least two to three times more electricity. But I guess I didn't really answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U44	We can ask again. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, thank you for your brief presentation. With the increase in electricity prices, the people of Estonia will remain poorer. September's electricity bills already showed it. You can only guess what will happen in the winter months, especially if there is a decent Nordic winter. Estonia actually has large oil shale reserves and the price of oil shale is not dependent on the price of the world market. Oil, gas and other prices are climbing higher and higher on the world market, but thanks to oil shale, we have a prerequisite for energy independence. You've been in the energy sector for a long time. Why has Estonia still not contributed to the scientific development of oil shale electricity production technology? Is it mainly behind funding, or is there other factors behind politicians' world-view rigidity?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U46	Thank you for your question. I didn't hear very well, it's awfully echoing. But I understand the question was, why hasn't the oil shale technology been developed? On the contrary, I am saying that we have contributed a great deal. For example, the circulating boiling layer is unique in the world, our scientists are world-class and our oil shale technology is completely world-class. The question is, if we burn one fossil fuel that contains carbon, this carbon will just emit when it burns. It's physics, it has nothing to do with science. Science is so much that scientists [have developed] technology to capture carbon. And really, why haven't we caught it so far? In the previous report, the numbers were very nicely presented: this capture costs 70 to 90 cents per kilowatt-hour. We just haven't had that much money. But if the price of CO2 gets very high, then the amounts are completely comparable and why buy the CO2 quota, if the same money can capture the carbon, do something about it and sell it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U47	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U48	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I also thank you for your very good presentation. In your report, you touched on this subject a little bit, but I would like to ask you a question, maybe you will briefly and sum up again. Yes, we can bring this price down in the short term with very concrete and effective steps, but they are political. In technological terms, we have this window of time very short, very short, we cannot do much technologically. What would be the most effective long-term action to keep our energy prices low? I am just thinking of applying the technological possibilities so that we are economically competitive with our products and that our people too can look boldly to the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U49	Thank you. These are, of course, the national measures referred to above. Unfortunately, national measures are in the majority to address the consequences. But the future measures, which are really planned and done in the wider region, are the wider region of the Baltic Sea States or the [European Union], are still the same things. I'm coming back again, maybe for the third time, to capture and use carbon. I come to the point that other technologies are also developing: energy storage, certainly hydroaccumulation, and, in a few years' time, the production of hydrogen by electrolysis. All these complex measures will save us in the future. We're in a common electricity market. We cannot have much influence on the price of electricity here in Estonia. We are still price providers on the market, not price determinants. Alar Kon has made it very clear that one danger is, in fact, that the European Union is really digging into a gas dependency. In a few years, we'll have a problem with what happens now. Unfortunately in the European Union, there is not much gas on European territory at all. There is a little bit in Norway and the Netherlands, but this stock is shrinking, and perhaps in five years' time, there will be no gas production in Europe. And we are very much dependent on Russia or more generally on third countries. Rather, future action must be planned together with the European Union. These are very difficult for this simple reason, I am not ashamed to say in this Chamber that the European Union still does not have a functioning energy policy. But maybe it'll never be, and that would mean predicting the processes, not dealing with their consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U50	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress Arvi Hamburg! I will take this opportunity to ask for further information on your claim that lithium will play a major role in energy technology already now and in the future even greater. We know that the largest lithium reserves are in Bolivia and allegedly in Afghanistan about the same size. What impact are you forecasting for this future energy economy globally, or is it even? Maybe I'm exaggerating.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U52	I called lithium for example. But the need for all these rare metals in terms of energy storage will multiply, maybe the magnitudes will go second. [Let's take the recording device's life cycle. ] We cannot say that the battery is good or that electric transport is very good. We need to look at the entire life cycle and the carbon footprint associated with it. And in the case of rare metals, there is an increased risk of really finding them. There are less friendly and less democratic countries that we should not be addicted to. I want to say that energy is [a complex of very many factors]. All things need to be looked at in one complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U53	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U54	Thank you for this presentation. Very meaningful of course, but I regret to say that these proposals were the first of the poorest. In view of your academic title, I would ask you to tell me what analyses these claims are based on, that it is absolutely necessary to bring down this fee and certainly to bring down that fee. After all, bringing down charges means actually working back on investments and the effects of the market that would make investment. It'll take away the resource. How much, then, do you calculate that these tax losses would bring relief in the family's buffet? If you are very sure, you will certainly have an analysis of how much giving up this money will help poor people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U55	Thank you. I was talking about two ways to bring down costs: I did not talk about the VAT excise duty, and the other was about the renewable energy charge. If we analyse our electricity bill each by using the same example that exists on one slide, there is [the VAT paid by the final consumer is 54 euros per month in private property and 11 euros in district heating apartments and the renewable energy fee is 17 and 4 euros respectively]. If the price for renewable energy is not paid by the consumer, then the reduction is 17 or 4 euros, right? If we look at VAT, it is certainly more complicated from a national point of view, but it is not quite clear to me, as a consumer, that the price increase will bring additional VAT and it will be collected into the state budget. I'd still assume that maybe there'll be some relief. Now, your question was, [how much tax abolition would ease the family's budget]. VAT is 17% in the middle of the final price paid by the consumer and [renewable energy fee 5 to 6%]. If I had an invoice of EUR 100, then the relief would be [9% VAT reduction] 9 + 6, a total of EUR 15 per month. This is the answer to the question of how much less the consumer would pay. I thought I was talking about the sources. And if my report was very empty, of course I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U56	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. But I think it is very clear from this that the European Union's energy policy is the same as the Soviet Union's plan to make the great Siberian rivers run backwards, the opposite of the laws of physics and most natural. But it is such an ideological sting towards those who are trying to make it clear that nothing can be done. However, my question specifically concerns our electricity networks. The increase in renewable energy means greater fluctuations in our power transmission stations, routes, etc. What is the state of our electricity grids and all this energy infrastructure? Is this in line with all these possible challenges, or are we actually living to a large extent with the support of the Soviet heritage and should we make very substantial investments to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U58	Alar Konist's report also stated that the [structure] of the electricity network is changing very significantly for two reasons. One thing is that uncontrolled production is fluctuating. In the electricity grid, special directional power flows begin to move, and the higher flow of information is repeated. In any case, we need to manage consumption [to keep the balance sheet]. I do not have these calculations of how much it is necessary to rebuild the electricity grid, but we once took a ten-year-old direction that 600 GWh renewable energy production is what today's electricity grid can level out so that there is no need for major restructuring. Today, this production of 600 GWh has been exceeded, 330 MW of installed capacity, renewable energy has been significantly increased. If we now produce more renewable energy on a massive scale, we must, in any case, design a new configuration of the network and we must definitely invest in the network management system. The synchronous area of the synchronous area shall be defined in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 150, 20.5.2014, p. 1). I'm sorry, I'd like to jump back to taxes one more time. One of the proposals that has been made is to postpone the reintroduction of excise duty. Looks like a really nice thing, but the electricity excise is 0.3% today, at a former price of 1% of the price of the final consumer. True, it is almost 7% in the gas economy. Delaying the increase in electricity excise duty in the electricity economy does not have a significant impact on the end-user price. In the same electricity-fired private land we talked about, this tax would only be EUR 1.5 per month. Well, it's still an effect, but it's not the kind of thing that really makes you feel.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U59	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U60	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Thank you for this presentation. Indeed, you rightly mentioned that renewable energy charges have been paid over the last decade at almost EUR 1 billion. But, of course, aside from this, we must look at the fact that we have also subsidized oil shale production capacity with significant amounts, which have had their reasons. But it should not be forgotten, either, as regards the subsidy in this area: the construction of the Auvere plant and the oil plant, the free units for the retrofitting of boilers, which have been obtained and could have been sold as an alternative, and so on. On the other hand, it is, of course, important to note that a large part of this money has gone to the establishment of cogeneration plants, which, in fact, in an interesting way today protects our consumers from price increases, compared to Vilnius, for example, and with whom else. But my question is: how much would you do with the 2030 targets on the creation of renewable energy capacity? The government has set a target of 40% by 2030. Do you think it could be more ambitious?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U61	I think this number could stay in place as a goal. Looks like it's justified. I'm an optimist, and I think the Gulf of Riga wind farm might be ready by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U62	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U63	Thank you very much, dear waitress, for a good presentation. I am pleased to note that the previous government's decision that 1000 MW of oil shale capacity could still be retained so that we could have some guarantee of energy security was the right decision. This has to go on. But I want to ask you this. What has been going through today's two speeches is that the more energy sources we have, the more we cannot regulate our output, the more regulated capacities are actually needed. How do you feel about the future of Estonia being a possible nuclear power plant, the production of nuclear energy to ensure the regulatory capacities needed in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U64	I say very simply: I do not see the possibility of carbon-free electricity production without nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U65	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U66	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! I will continue with my concern about the growth of Russia's influence in the energy sphere. You showed impressive slides how they've already solved the sync problem for themselves. Do you see that, in fact, the security risk will be aggravated if Russia's influence on Germany increases? We are buying more and more Russian electricity, but they are essentially not subject to climate policy. What will this Russian influence be like? Anyway, I'm really worried that we're actually playing cards in Putin's hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U67	Thank you. There's supposed to be more of a politician here than I am. But I see this effect on energy dependence and, above all, on gas. I [commenting] this tactic with which we urgently want to reduce CO2. There is a need for regulation, we are introducing more and more gas power plants as regulatory capacity, increasing gas demand, increasing deficit, raising prices and constantly digging ourselves in deeper and deeper. This is where the emergency brake needs to be pulled. And what's the warning brake? The danger brake is expected to be that we are taking some time off and analysing whether we need to shut down coal and nuclear power plants in Europe as quickly as possible. According to the plans, 35 GW coal plants and 10 GW plants will be shut down in Europe over the next five years. Are these decisions quite justified from a technical and political point of view? I don't know which one it's more important. Let's just say that, if we look further, the political aspect may be even more important.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U68	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U69	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for a very pleasant presentation, very thorough and concise. In this, my opinion is different from that of Jürgen Ligi, who said that this was not a very good report. But the question is CO2. To sell CO2, use it, I'm not arguing against it. But when we're talking about trade in CO2 quotas, it's like another world, and it's my understanding that it's still out of a sucked-out pen. And since the price of the CO2 quota has a very strong impact on the price of electricity as a whole, I have a question as to whether such a system of trading and trading of CO2 quotas, known in the European Union, is in use elsewhere in the world, too, in Asia, America, Africa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U70	I don't know there's a system like this in the rest of the world. I know it has been developed in Europe and Europe wants to take this world, but it has not yet quite succeeded. Well, maybe it'll work. So much from this system that I don't think the emissions trading system is entirely wrong. After all, it is actually designed to kill fossil fuels, CO2 emission fuels, and to die with a market mechanism that is right in itself. It also states that the free quota will be reduced each year. And quota trade extends from energy to other areas, so everything is, like, well-designed. But you have to consider when it was made. As I said before, the price was €15/20, currently 60. It doesn't work as expected. It cannot be that we have developed some kind of system and it will work successfully to the end [regardless of changes in the external environment]. Feedback and correction are always necessary in life. I still think that it is necessary to analyse why the market economy is not working now. Why he doesn't work is one thing. The second is that very simple corrections must be made to correct the initial failures. It's the same thing as not dealing with CO2 quotas by some kind of broker. It's quite peculiar that you buy the quota at a cheaper price and sell it to a more expensive producer. This should not be the source of the money, and I think it would be possible to clear it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U71	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U72	Good manager and waitress! All of us here in the European Union should be guided by this European Commission's sacred objective, the green turn. If we don't exert ourselves, it's gonna be the end of the world, it's gonna be 1.5 degrees, and so on. But the European Union's share is 8 to 9% of all this, the continents are more than the European Union. You said very well that there is no energy policy in the European Union. But we have to be like a locomotive, while Estonia is running in front of this train. How should we view all of this in the light of common sense? All these noble goals, self-sustaining, while watching what is happening throughout the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U73	Thank you. What's your attitude? We are a Member State of the European Union, and this gives us a certain framework. But I still don't think it's the right thing to shape the world with shakes and price jumps. It is possible to sit together and analyze what is wrong with this system. What do I mean? The Estonian proverb also says that you must not spit in the old well until the new one is ready. If we do not have new technology, such market-based, market-acceptable technology, then we will not be able to shut down [the existing one] and shut down production to date. That's one thing. The second is that if we now intervene in the market by means of administrative measures, what does that mean? It brings with it much of the dependence that has already been addressed on third countries. We're still acting within our senses, taking advantage of all the possibilities. In order to expand opportunities, one suggestion is that research development in all energy must have a different dimension. As I said, with the technologies of the last century, we will not get very far.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U74	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U75	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, good waitress, for this presentation. In your report, you didn't say much about nuclear potential. In answering one question, you said that without it, we would not imagine a carbon-free future. But there are also floating solutions. For example, the Lebanese capital, Beirut, is flowing from a 188 MW-day-producing floating nuclear power plant built in Turkey. There is also a second order, which gives 270 MW per day. Could the introduction of such a floating nuclear solution temporarily help in the power generation crisis and halt the high price level in the short term? And will you support this nuclear power plant based on Estonia's new technology, which is planned and which would be far more environmentally friendly and safer than all these old Chernobyl-eras? What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U76	In itself, yes, I believe that nuclear energy is needed not only for us but for the whole of the European Union. And it looks like it's starting to get the attention right now. Whether a nuclear power plant is floating and in port or on land, it depends on two things: regulation and price. If we are talking about controlled reactors of about 300 MW, then certainly ground installation should be cheaper and cooling water should be taken from either the sea or the lake. At present, each country has its own regulation. And when we order a reactor, it's made like a tailor's suit for our country. There is now a need for a single regulation on the basis of which plants that manufacture plants can develop series production. This would lead to lower initial investments. And it is now underway, at least 32 countries in the world have currently agreed that they will develop a common regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U77	Dear Paul Puustusmaa, now we have exactly the time. That is what the group has asked for. I am very sorry, but I must be based on the EKRE Group. So very respected academician Arvi Hamburg, thank you! Thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. Now the question from this floor is how many questions [may be asked]. The faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has requested that a member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two questions to any rapporteur, so theoretically six questions may be asked. I now request Martin Helme, member of the Conservative People's Party Group, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Your group has proposed that you report on this item and I would ask you to attend the Riigikogu Chair if you do not protest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U78	No, I'm not protesting at all. Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, We heard two meaningful presentations today from scientists who looked at the matter clearly and also stressed that apolitically. I am clearly speaking the opposite, precisely politically. When has the Estonian electorate decided that we want to abandon fossil fuels? When has the Estonian electorate given politicians a clear guideline or even a mandate to make sure we have an increase in the price of electricity, the price of fuel will rise, so that we must give up the cars we are going to drive today in a tangible future, that we are going to pay more and more amounts for renewable energy subsidies and that we will lose our energy independence and start buying renewable energy from abroad? When has the Estonian voter given a guideline, or at least a permit, to ban diesel cars, and for example, to start buying CO2 quotas in future agricultural production, i.e. to increase food prices in the same way as we are seeing today an increase in electricity or gas prices? Such authorisation has never been granted. Such a permit has never been asked for. As a result, we must go back to the beginning and say that we must first talk to voters about what a climate change or the climate policy that it brings to their standard of living means. And then we should be honest with the voters about what these measures are actually achieving, or are being imposed on us, which have now caused us a price shock. Let's be honest, this actually came out of the previous reports here. Will anything change in relation to greenhouse gases in the world when cement production ends in Estonia? But then the use of cement will not stop, we will simply buy this cement from Belarus, for example. Will anything change in the world with climate or CO2 or other greenhouse gases if we stop producing oil shale energy, oil shale electricity, oil shale gas, oil shale oil in Estonia and start buying our electricity primarily from Russia? Nothing's gonna change. Nothing's gonna change! How will it affect CO2 emissions if we shut down oil shale production in Narva and instead build 600 new wind generators in the Gulf of Livonia that are larger than the Tallinn TV Tower? 600 of them! 600 wind generators larger than the Tallinn TV Tower, and these 600 do not compensate, do not produce enough electricity to replace the electricity produced today at Narva stations. But what is 600 CO2 emissions from the Tallinn TV Tower? The emissions of one tonne of concrete are some 650 CO2 equivalents per kilo, i.e. 0,6 or 0,7 tonnes, about one tonne in the production of oil shale. The Tallinn TV Tower weighs 25000 tonnes, mainly concrete. So what are we saving in the CO2 quota if we build 600 Tallinn TV Towers? It's all a change of heart! It's an absurd theater, it has nothing to do with saving the climate. Even if we agree that there is something crazy about the climate, there is no scientific consensus, there are discussions and disputes. It is the hypothesis that the climate will change in recent times more than it has previously changed. And over this hypothesis, we will undoubtedly be able to dissipate. We know that the world's climate has changed since the early days of the world. We know that the world's climate has been much warmer than it is now before humankind can develop. We know that the world's climate has been considerably colder than it is now before humankind develops. 90 million years ago, crocodiles swam in the North Pole, and there was a thick green forest in Antarctica, and there was no oil shale oven in Narva. A miracle of miracles! Somehow it was so warm! And there has been a period in the history of the world when the whole planet was covered with thick snow and ice, so that only the lower layers of the oceans had melted water. And there weren't any people either. There were no people either! I don't know what was done. The explanations to this have been provided by various scientists, less idealized than by those working for the UN. The main explanation is that the world's climate is influenced primarily by the sun, the earth's distance from the sun, the angle from the sun, the sun's own activity, and the geological processes that occur in the earth's interior as a result of the sun's activity. If we think that forest fires in Siberia or Australia alone, forest fires in one year will produce more greenhouse gas emissions than European industry can produce for ten years, what is it about? It speaks well of a number of things, and all of them show climate changers in a bad light. First of all, the most important thing, of course, is to understand that it speaks of a number of politicians having created the complex of God, the idea that we are capable of influencing the world's climate. It's not! People are unable to predict even the weather longer than a few days. However, we do think that we are capable of changing the climate. This is the same ideological madness as was the case in the Soviet era with michurinus or the Lyssekism, where it was thought that we were able to make the Siberian rivers flow the other way or we were able to start growing plants in areas where no plants had ever been grown in the past. This has nothing to do with scientific discipline, and it is very important to stress that it has nothing to do with scientific science. All that mantra we're told to listen to scientists, listen to scientists... It's not science. It's an ideological brain cramp. It's not science! But it is a very good idea for politicians that they can rule the world. No, the humility of nature could be a little more. But as a result of all this madness, which has nothing to do with saving the climate or changing the climate, and even if we admit that the climate is changing, and even if we admit that the climate is changing as a result of human activity, and I do not object in that sense that human activity has undoubtedly an impact on nature, whether it is large or small, whether it is local or global, it can be disputed, but even if we admit that human beings have this effect, we have to ask whether it is more appropriate to combat it than to adapt to it. Now, if we look at the result of fighting it on the lifeline of humans, humanity, the sustainability of civilization, the answer is quite simple: it is easier to adapt to it than to fight it. Just as humans have always adapted, people at all times have adapted to the fact that there are either more precipitation or less, whether it is colder or warmer. Mankind is famous for its adaptation, and so far it has grown in numbers and there are no examples of failure. So if we think that the most important thing is the fight against CO2, then we should ask whether the fight so far has been effective in any way. The answer is no. Global CO2 emissions have increased throughout the period when CO2 has been combated. And if we now decide, purely for political and ideological reasons, that in Europe we will put an end to all human activities that generate CO2, then neither does it really have any effect on the climate. However, it has a very clear effect from an economic and socio-economic point of view. As a result, it has to be clearly understood that this whole CO2 business is not helping, but it is harmful. He's completely asymmetrical, he's not helping anything, but he's extremely damaging. It must therefore be made clear that this CO2 business must be put to an end. You gotta step out of it, you gotta give it up. And it takes political courage. Oh, how I like to recall the speeches everyone makes, from Greta Thunberg to von der Leyen, how the task of politicians is to show leadership and perhaps to go against popular opinion when making difficult decisions. Well, that's what we're gonna show them! Let's go to popular opinion, make bold decisions and end this CO2 bisnic electricity price immediately comes down, the gas price the same way. However, as we clearly came out of the previous presentations here, the reason why we have lost the price of electricity in this form is because of political decisions to reduce electricity production, not only by reducing production, but also by constantly decreasing investment. I would like to remind you of this fine draft that we had here yesterday, where the Financial Supervision Authority is ordered to start checking banks to ensure that the banks' products are climate-neutral. But what does it mean by translating it? By translating it, it actually means that an administrative decision has been taken in the European Union to restrict the possibilities of banks or, let's say, to discourage banks from investing in certain sectors, energy sectors. Ten years, since 2008, the energy economy has been in continuous under-financing, with constant under-financing! The introduction of gas fields, oil deposits, as well as coal mines, new mines, exploration of deposits and upgrading or maintenance of existing structures have always been underfunded. The result is that we do not have enough coal, gas or oil. And now they're surprised they're out! What do the Utopians offer to replace us? Utopians offer wind power and solar energy as their replacement. The previous tables clearly showed us that even if we really want it, it comes slowly, is not available all the time, leads to huge investments in the network to make the network work, and is insanely expensive. From these tables, we have seen how electricity prices will remain two or three times more expensive than today, because renewable energy is so expensive, the transition to it requires so wild investments, the renewal of the networks accompanying it will require so wild investments. Let's just ask, but why? We have Narva stations that produce power in Estonia and basically cover Estonia's capacity[need]. The balance sheet amount is some EUR 2 billion. About that, we say we don't need to, we'll write it down. That 2 billion euros is a cost. Someone's gonna take it. Since these are Estonian taxpayers' factories, the Estonian taxpayer takes up this challenge. How do we compensate for this? I guess you gotta raise the tax, somewhere you gotta raise some tax. We build new things for ourselves, create an existing resource before recouping the capital. We are creating a need for new investments not only in production capacity, but in the capacity of networks in the billions. Billion-dollar scale! I haven't seen the exact calculations, but the cost of this same Gulf wind farm only for these windmills, estimates start at 2 or 2.5 billion. Investment cost. Where's the money coming from? Of course, from the pockets of all consumers. Plus network investments, which are hundreds of millions, as well. In any case, the electricity coming from there is more expensive. He cannot be cheaper if we have created such investment obligations for ourselves and, in the past, simply tossed the capital into the trash in the form of Narva stations. You don't need all this! It's not really necessary and it's not helping. The most ridiculous thing is that even if we accept that we need to save the climate, which is actually an empty slogan, it will not save, it will not help. Building these same windmills, the same concrete cost. If we calculate this CO2 out of there, we'll find out that we could produce hundreds of years more in Narva without even catching any CO2. And there would still be less CO2 consumption or CO2 emissions at Narva plants than the CO2 emissions from concrete casting in the construction of these windmills. It's all a scam, it's a complete scam! But now I look, I am running out of time to answer the question, what was the title of our debate today: how to bring down the price of electricity? The government, after being pressed by the public for at least a month in a row, has fortunately pushed the original absurdity into the shelf that you are okay, the expensive price of electricity is normal and can handle it, and has at least taken some cosmetic steps to say at least a week before the elections, or a few days before the elections, that we did something. Well, we did a little bit, but it's not enough to significantly lower the electricity price. However, I will come back to this: for electricity prices to fall in both the short and the long term, today's CO2 trade must simply be excluded. Just put it out of the way! Yes, it is a serious political decision, which will undoubtedly lead to a serious political confrontation with the European Union. So what? What is the point of this European Union to us if it leads to massive impoverishment? If there is a choice as to whether we want to be in the European Union and poor, or if we want to be out there and wealthy, then it is a simple choice. I always choose wealth. Secondly, it has been said here about the renewable[energy] charge and that we are compensating for the renewable[energy] charge, at least for people, but perhaps also for businesses. It's a half-solution! Renewable[energy] charges in this form are unnecessary at all. Renewable[energy] charge is racket. We take EUR 100 million out of all people's pockets and give it to about 50 or 100 companies depending on whether they are bigger or smaller, who have, among other things, been very closely involved in the creation of laws, who have set themselves up nicely on this pipe, and we are directing it to 100 million small gangs who are doing so-called renewable energy, of which, point one, there is no benefit to the climate, and point two, which makes electricity expensive anyway. This renewable energy charge simply needs to be stopped. Thirdly, of course, there has already been talk about transmission charges. Here was the question, during the previous presentation, how do we do it, that it is a cost-based price. Yeah, you can tell Grandma that it's a cost-based price. Actually, it's not a cost-based price. In fact, it is a bluffed price and there is certainly room for decline, and indeed, one very big reason why transmission charges are expensive is that if we introduce large amounts of renewable electricity, this will inevitably lead to very large investments in the network. These investments go to network charges. But if we reduce the need for these investments, then the price of electricity transmission charges will come down as soon as possible. Of course, in purely fiscal policy decisions, it was very reasonable that electricity excise duty would remain low and gas excise duty would remain low. I do not understand, of course, why the government has made another partial solution here to postpone this increase in electricity excise duty and gas excise duty, but after the next elections, we can sort this out. So it was reasonable and it is also very reasonable, of course, for us to introduce a preferential rate in the case of energy VAT, i.e. 9% instead of the same 20%. I'm making sure I'm running out of time. If these steps are all administrative, political steps, then the price of electricity will immediately come to a reasonable level. One more point or one more idea. We are told about the electricity market, the Nordic-Baltic electricity market. Well, it's a bluff. It's a bluff! As we have seen from many maps here, our price is different from Latvian prices, Finnish prices, Swedish prices, Danish or Norwegian prices. There is no single market here. We have made rather low capacity cables in Finland to say that we are connected to the Nordic market. But in fact, the main goal of these cables is to create a distortion of the eye that we are in the common market, and the price that rises there also drags up our prices or the price that rises in Latvia drags up our prices as well. If we really want a market-based price, the most sensible thing would be that we only have an internal market in Estonia, an internal market in Estonia. And all that is "beyond the border" is where we buy and sell electricity through the state monopoly export import agency, who buys and sells market balances in Estonia abroad or buys and sells to the Estonian market at a fixed price, as the state wants. In this case, the price of electricity in Estonia would be the price of electricity due to the price of oil shale, and it would be significantly cheaper. All these solutions are in our hands; it only needs political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U79	Thank you. Good waitress, there are also questions for you, but I have a request for you at the moment that maybe you should go in there for a moment and do this extension of the sitting, otherwise we will be in trouble. Good Riigikogu! The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14. I shall put this proposal to the vote. I ask you to take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U80	With the result of 25, the respondents and abstentions were not supported by the proposal. The hearing is adjourned. I would like to ask the Riigikogu to return to its chair, Martin Helme, so that we can now go to the round of questions and answers. First question, Paul Pulpland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I thank you for this positive report. This was particularly positive precisely because, when we look at the government measures that the government made public yesterday through the media, you can say briefly about them: too lame, too little, too late. But now I can also apply this possibility so that, as former Minister of Finance, you can answer the next question that sounds like this. Of course, our goal and our serious desire is for a simple person to have less electricity, because the fact that electricity becomes a luxury product is still profoundly absurd. The price of electricity, known to be around 45%, is represented by the different burdens of the state and the burdens of the European Union. There's excise duty, there's VAT...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U82	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U83	...there's all kinds of network charges and stuff like that. It is particularly funny that excise duty is still subject to VAT, which is particularly good. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The question now is: how do you feel about the possibility that our country will lose or reduce this absurd link, the excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U84	Thank you. I share the view that the government's steps have been feeble and that they are not more in the interest of such political communication, so that we can say that we did something. There is no doubt that this effect will not be negative. I am pleased that at least some of the proposals we have been talking about for a month have then been taken up, even though our proposal has not been to take CO2 money and thus to pay people social assistance. Indeed, with electricity excise duties, there is an EU Excise Directive and minimum excise duties have been fixed. Once, when this directive came into force, Estonia used a minimum. In time, then, this excise duty was raised to one of the highest in Europe, and during our government we lowered it back to the minimum. As came out of the reports here, the share of excise duty in electricity prices and electricity bills is actually very small. But it's also important with such a signal value or symbolic value. Now during the budget negotiations, the government decided that they would not bring it back to where it was in the meantime. But what certainly needs to be taken into account is that the European Commission has been at the table for a new Energy Taxation Directive, which will undoubtedly not make things better or cheaper than our view. I totally believe that we still need to establish this thinking, that electricity is not a luxury, that electricity is so much more dependent on everything else, from food production, indoor warm, to industry. People may not be able to think about it, but more than 15% of today's electricity consumption in Europe is connected with smart devices and computers. Let's think about this for a second! That number keeps growing. What do these young people who are worried about their future and about the future of our planet say when they become virtually unavailable because of the price of electricity or because of the cost of components? So are they gonna be doing climate strikes in front of us? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U85	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As we know, the European Union is a German empire covered by euphemisms. In Germany, elections were just taking place, where the government is forming a red and red-green force. What is the potential impact of this government on European energy policy and how much could it affect us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U87	Yeah, that's right. After all, one of the reasons why all this climate neutrality and climate change policy from Brussels was that, in the run-up to these elections, it was necessary for CDU and Angela Merkel, who have now lost the elections, to show in their own political way that no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-one-one-one-one-one-one-no-one-no-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-no-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one Perhaps, in essence, the rest of Europe, Finland and Estonia, and ending with Spain, were taken hostage in the German domestic policy struggle. We all live now with this consequence, which was the distorted logic of the German domestic policy struggle. However, as we can now see in retrospect, it did not do any good. CDU still lost the election, and the Greens are still in power there. The result? Well, let's say, in the medium term, of course, the consequence of this is the breakdown of the European Union. The crazy, crazy ideology that comes to power there, the inflexible and non-effectual rape and ramming that comes there, will end with revolution in some countries and, in some countries, with leaving the European Union. Because, well, we can take a sounding posture here, talk about saving the world, but if you take away the home make and home light from people, or essentially turn them into serfs by paying off every cent they earn, basically to the state or state-related energy production, or to interest groups who are specially protected by the state, who deal with this green racket, then eventually people will fight back. They also fight back in Estonia. And it's very right that they fight back. I can't agree with that. We saw examples of what happened in Texas as a result of an idealized energy policy were given here in previous presentations. We are going to see both electricity and heat cuts in Europe this winter, and it will all end very badly, with a very clear political consequence. Now, what's our mission? What is the task of the Estonian Government and the task of the Estonian Riigikogu? These are large processes that run outside Estonia. In this situation, the task of our government and Riigikogu is to prevent us from having these things, so that we have security of supply, that electricity and heat are available, both in the sense that they exist and in the sense that they are affordable. It is the duty of an immediate government to stand up for the well-being of its people. And frankly, it does not matter what the Lisbon treaties or climate directives say here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U88	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U89	Thank you. I think you've almost convinced yourself of everything you're saying. Science doesn't bother you. Analysis doesn't bother you. Numbers are a little tricky for you. But I'm asking you what I couldn't find out from a respected academic who said a meaningful story. I didn't say that by accident. How much electricity is made up of consumer costs and how much, according to your calculations, is it a gain in percentage of the consumption basket if we can now get the price of electricity down? Although I don't know how much you're gonna get. What about the measures you have proposed: how many percent will life cost a person?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U90	Yeah. No, scientists certainly won't bother me, especially when these scientists are actually talking about science, rather than performing as a scientist in the capatasite of some ideology workers. Those so-called smug fascists who talk about how we have to live and what we can't do, I don't have any connection with them. And, in my opinion, I pointed out that the way in which the European Union is currently fighting CO2 has not reduced CO2 production in Europe or in the rest of the world, by the way. Nor will it help if we shut down the European industry as a whole - it will still not contribute to the reduction of CO2. Even if we wanted us to reduce CO2, all that will be done will result in crazy costs, power cuts, heat cuts, social unrest, but the climate will not help. Of course, what proportion of household fixed costs is energy depends on the social demographic group. What is important to understand and which, of course, the Reform Party will never understand is that not all people are rich in Estonia. The lower your income per household member, the greater the share of fixed costs and the larger the share of these fixed costs are electricity, home and food baskets. We also know that 50% of the people of Estonia living with an axe live from pay to pay day or from pension to pension day. 50% of people in Estonia live this way. A quarter of a million people live in poverty in Estonia, and these are people who do not have the opportunity to say that okay, last year I had a rent bill of 150 euros, now it is 350 euros, so, well, what's there, 200 euros, but Mother Earth is getting better. There are hundreds of thousands of people in Estonia who are unable to increase their fixed costs by 200 euros each month in a situation where we do not talk about it, and I also drew attention to this in my speech only directly from energy costs, because if electricity goes more expensive, food will also become more expensive. A good example of this: there is nothing to do with the CO2 quota or the price of gas as if there are no trees. But, see, the price of the wood has also increased greatly in Estonia. Why? Because any reasonable person who is able to turn off his radiator will reheat his oven and create demand for this wood, for a log tree, and so this price will increase. Is it any good for the CO2 business? Halus wood is not yet taxed by the CO2 tax, but, as we know, its CO2 emissions are basically, let's say, equivalent to oil shale. There is no reasonable logic, there is no scientific basis here, there is no rational action. I know what the Reform Party's answer is: then the log must be banned or CO2 taxed. Well, yeah. When we talk about the poorer, say, lower-income people, their spending on heating and room temperature is between 20% and 40%. If it doubles, it is not possible to say that you can manage or come to the Social Assistance Department. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of people in Estonia who should come to the Social Assistance Department. But next to this party, who once talked about being a business-friendly party, the rudiments are no longer seen with you, it is not clear that the whole Estonian industry will get a chapel match with this increase in energy prices. What does that mean? This means a reduction in exports, a loss of jobs, that is to say the transformation of people who are able to cope with themselves into those in need of social assistance. In addition to the direct cost, direct cost with each electricity bill, every rent bill or heating bill that comes in October-December, it has a direct impact on Estonian industry, the backbone of the Estonian economy. Just to say that we don't care... Well, we care. Yeah, I answered that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U91	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U92	Good manager and waitress! Now, if you try to make wood and red, we'll play a game like this so that you're the Prime Minister today and Kaja sits there in front of Jürgen. The government has also taken some steps, discussed and planned relief. But what would your government and you say, what would we do in that case?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U93	I would like to come to Parliament with a decision to leave the Paris climate agreement. That's the first thing. Of course, tax reductions, so that they are decent, the abolition of the renewable energy fee, not the loss of the renewable energy fee on the electricity bill and then the payment from the state budget to these racketgers at the expense of another revenue line, but the loss of the renewable energy fee in this way at all. That doesn't make any sense today. The government is purely in possession of a reduction in transmission charges. It is enough to decide to reduce Elering's dividend, it is enough to decide to reduce the Estonian Energia dividend, and there is a direct impact on what affects people. [[Summing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] And, of course, we also need to review whether we need to be on the stock market as we are now. I do not agree that we are saying that we have been given a framework, that we are in the European Union and there is nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U94	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, there is a very loud noise in the Chamber, even though there are not many members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber at the moment. Please respect those who wish to listen to the waitress, and keep your other stories out of this hall. Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U95	You can talk at the cafeteria. I think I've pretty much branded it all. No, I was in the middle of it, that I still disagree with the approach that we have a 'in advance' framework in which we are and where we cannot do anything. Once again: all Estonian politicians are responsible to the Estonian people, responsible for the well-being of the Estonian people, responsible for the fact that we can manage, that we have the most basic coping. And if any international agreements or promises made so far are to interfere with this, then these agreements and promises must be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U96	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U97	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here, a respected colleague behind my back just shouted out loud a little while ago and complained about why we were asking you questions. There's nothing to do. I told him that they also had the opportunity to explain, speak and ask their political agenda in every way, but it is their fault that they do not. But I'm still asking. Who is in the interest of all this global climate panic, this overhearing of climate hysteria and the resulting chaos and price increases? Maybe you could just explain it in a few words.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U98	Thank you. Yeah, no one forbids the Reform Party from making politics, that's true. But now, yes, I have already branded a small local birch like this, the same renewable energy fee of 100 million euros is collected annually from Estonian people and passed on to a few dozen entrepreneurs who are either active in cogeneration plants or in electricity or in the sun. Well, there's a little more sunshine, these little solar stations came here like mushrooms after rain. This also means, by the way, that this 100 million will increase significantly next year. Even though it doesn't get much power. It's a redistribution of wealth. In this sense, however, it must be said very clearly, which is a round of greens. The green turn is one of the greatest mechanisms of all-time redistribution of wealth and power that has taken place outside the great wars and revolutions. First, he transfers immeasurable amounts of money from the poorer part of society or from the middle class to a very small number of super rich, multinational corporations. It's not by accident, it's aware. This is a clear redistribution of wealth and such a great redistribution of wealth we have not seen funnyly outside wars or revolutions. Secondly, of course, all of this is directed at the grassroots, or I do not know if it is directed, but its effect is that it hits the Eastern European countries within the European Union much more painfully than the countries of Western Europe or the countries of southern Europe. Because of the historical and geographical background and, let's say, the structure of the economy, it punishes Eastern Europe and Western Europe it does less harm. Thirdly, the European Union's climate policy is moving both money and power decisively from the private sector to the state. The fourth important motivation for this whole green turn or climate policy is clear: it changes the balance of power within the European Union in a very basic and very broad manner. I have already said that it is changing the balance of power between the East and the West, but it is also changing the balance of power between the Member States and the Centre decisively in favour of the Centre. It will centralise power at the expense of the Member States for the benefit of the Brussels Commission. So if we put these things together, big money, great power, right? Well, it's obvious that the machine that wants to roll over us is pretty powerful. In such a situation, this Aunt Maali or a small company in Estonia, such as a bakery company, whose electricity bill doubled or tripled, as they say, is a collateral damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U99	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I absolutely have to agree with the construction that the European Union, by its very nature, is a poor and middle class for pumping money for the individual super rich, and for this it is invented increasingly prouder and crazier schemes. The European Union's green or carbon quota scheme is indeed quite unique, as Dr Hamburg has also confirmed here that it is something that is nowhere else in the world. This, of course, will make life more expensive for us, prices will rise, all our exports and imports will become more expensive. I mean, in this sense, the European Union, with its policies, is harming the whole of Europe. But now, returning to this CO2 quota, I'm getting to the Paris agreement. Surely you have considered these real political steps. We're coming here, we're guessing, we could leave. What are these steps on the part of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U101	Yes, I repeat, we have reached this situation as a result of hurrah-optimistic political decisions made on account of perverted ideology. This means that political decisions are also needed to get out of this situation. Of course, many of these decisions are in the hands of the government. Some of these decisions must come through the Riigikogu, for example, the denunciation or withdrawal of an international agreement or the amendment of a tax is a decision of the Riigikogu. So I've marked it many times, don't you think we have it, it's up to us, and if we act on behalf of our people, well-being, security, security, that's what should be done. If we don't want to do this, if we're afraid of someone or something, if we have any loyalty anywhere else, then, of course, there's gonna be some explaining how nothing can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U102	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Undoubtedly, today's Prime Minister in the history of Estonia explained the high price of the Nordic Power Exchange, in addition to other problems, by the fact that the share of renewable energy in Estonia is too low. If now the greens are already taking irreparable proportions, we are building windmills full of Estonian coast and Gulf of Riga, so that the bird does not fly and the fish do not swim, and we are increasing our share of renewable energy, I do not know if a hundred times, can you tell how this could affect the Nordic electricity exchange price?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U104	Thank you. Yeah, it's a very important distinction. There is environmental protection that we have birds and fish and biodiversity and clean water and fertile soils, etc. It's environmental protection. That we don't throw plastic in the river or in the water, and that we don't put any chemicals in the woods, that's environmental protection, that's what we can all do. This can be done by the Estonian state, where the Estonian state can establish rules and control these rules, we can sort the garbage. Because we have done it quite nicely, Estonia's cleanest country in Europe, Tallinn is practically the cleanest air capital in the world. So in environmental protection we actually have things quite nice in Estonia. And then there is a climate policy that has little to do with all this or, if it has anything to do with it, it has a negative effect on the environment. Well, you went through the same references here that if we're going to look for and apply some kind of recording technology, these recording technologies need so much mining in the world that its environmental damage is immeasurable. We cannot even imagine how much damage we are doing to groundwater, how much damage we are doing to other environmental elements. But all of this we are doing for the 'climate goals'. We're making our very real living environment, which we're influencing, worse. We create low - frequency vibrations with these windmills that cause different health problems. And we're saving a climate that depends on nothing but what's going on in the sun. It's all absurd, it's all about harming yourself and harming nature for some fictional purpose and fighting fictional problems. But in answer to the question of how our wind farms influence the price of electricity on the Nordic stock market, the answer also went through the previous report that our production does not affect the price of the stock exchange. We have a living example of this now. The electricity produced by Narva plants is not at the cost of 200 euros. The electricity produced by Narva plants is 20 euros high. The cost depends on whether the older or the newer boilers are there somewhere, either a little below or a little over EUR 20 megawatt, but they still sell it at 200. Because there's this price on the stock market and where you don't collect that money on the stock market. It's exactly the same with this wind energy. We can offer it to the market, these quantities will never be large enough to reduce hunger, and all these fluctuations to it. If there aren't enough controlled capacities, we can't actually control that price.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U105	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Now we've been moving different words about this thing for a long time. When this quantity turns into quality, this is a very serious problem, because we must have a program to get our people out of this sex. I'd like to hear from you what we're doing, not just what we're supposed to do. But what are we actually doing for this, and what are the goals that we have so that we can bring up the Estonian people, how can we say, positively without a revolutionary situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U107	I'd split it in two. There must be a short-term action plan and a long-term action plan. A short-term action plan is what I have stated here several times: CO2, renewable energy charges, taxes and transmission charges [related], which are controlled by the government, which are clearly political choices that need a decision of the government and a decision of the Riigikogu. Our plan is simply to beat them as long as these decisions come, to mobilise the public's request or claim. That's it. The long plan is, of course, that if we went a little deeper into the maps that were shown here in the previous presentations, today we need to make a decision on where Estonia will get electricity in ten years' time. Are we going to build a new Auvere station and continue with oil shale energy for another 100 years or are we going to build a nuclear power plant, the construction of which must be preceded by the creation of know-how in Estonia? There must be a clear way to train people and create appropriate chairs and other activities in universities, without which it is not possible to create all this, to create monitoring organisations, etc. Or do we have another solution? The same solution, however, is that we are putting wind farms full of concrete on the edge of the coast of Estonia, the amount to be built of which is such that CO2 emissions are about 40 times higher than heating with today's Narva stations to the end of their natural life. These decisions are actually needed today. There's a fourth chance, too. The fourth option is to say that we here are such small and weak and we are independent of nothing, and we hope then that Norwegians or Finns or Poles will solve this for us and we only need to build one more cable. Well, that's also the solution, but I'm not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U108	Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. That time is now over. Now I'm opening negotiations. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has requested that there be first speeches by the representatives of the political groups, so I will proceed from this. The negotiations are open. I now ask for the representative of the Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U109	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This parallel world, which EKRE is building, was very evident in the dialogue between questioners and respondents, the EKRE and how many audiences now there are when others get the remote control. An event will be organised and some parallel world story will be spoken. First of all, whoever listened at all realized that a question such as 'Electric prices down' could not be taken seriously. No, electricity prices don't go down. They are changing over time, but it has been a long-term problem that electricity prices have been too low to be invested. Thankfully, we also received a summary from experts of where these sources of price increases are. They are not in Estonia. They are in Norway, Germany, China, in general economic recovery and in such places, and of course in Russia. It may not have been mentioned that Russia is also behind the increase in gas prices, four times the price of gas has risen. Russia - Gazprom, should say - has not filled its gas storage facilities in Europe, for example. The fact is that energy itself does not become cheap anymore, it was long known. Even if the current peak comes down, it is necessary to maintain a long-term view that changes in energy consumption and energy production are essential. It is not just a question of convenience that we want to give up the comforts, because we will give up them much worse if we do not make changes. In any case, energy policy must be governed by the principle that the consumer pays, not by the fact that the state pays in any way, apart from its various price differences, abandons economically justified charges and thereby reduces its ability to invest. That didn't go so well at times. Value added tax, one example. The VAT advantage is acquired by the biggest consumers when it comes to private individuals. This sociological view is completely lacking in EKRE. Contrary to what their chairman said here, that we do not know that all people are poor, we are talking about tax exemptions in the sociological spectrum. The upper decile pays three times more VAT than the lower one, and consequently also acquires a much higher VAT concession. On the other hand, it is the upper deciles that heat more electricity and gas, not the lower ones. Socially, it's a stupid proposition. There was no answer from anyone here about how much energy is made up of human consumption. We're looking at a point. What, then, is the important national scale we are talking about? I have not been able to overcheck this in writing with the current knowledge of electricity at 2.5% of all private consumption, which is, of course, a speck for these big words. Even now, if it were to rise to five as an annual average, which it certainly will not rise this year, it is still something that does not deserve such hysterical language. And, of course, it is not worth the big measures that have been proposed. If we take separately, right, VAT, network charges, renewable energy... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U110	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U111	...they're a fraction of it, be it 3 or 2 or 5%, and they don't have a major influence. The dumbest thing is that the bigger consumer, who is generally wealthier, takes the bulk of it. At the same time, the state lacks this money to channel consumption and production more efficient, alternative, renewable. In that sense, it's extraordinarily lame. Of course, it is nice that we have two academic performers, but they do not represent the mainstream, they are clearly more technocratic and fossil-friendly than there is a real environment. By the way, the real environment also includes bankers, one of whom played very nicely this morning, as did Jevgeni very nicely in "Hellovision." The world has changed. In these circumstances, say that we're going to cross the border and lose the fees and start playing some of our regulated game here, forget it! No one's gonna buy our goods after that. But if we want to change this system, we have to change it internationally. Of course, we need some basic power. Of course, we also need to think about catching CO2. Of course, we need to think about nuclear energy. However, a general change must be made precisely at the expense of the resources collected, rather than simply throwing these resources at everyone, especially those who spend more. Directions are, of course, production, saving, transfers, recording, technology. I would stress that this talk of abolishing excise duty is insane. Zero decimal percent of the price. In this sense, the academics were very right. I have commented on VAT. He was also very right about this reduction in network charges. I do not agree with this, it is a well-founded non-payment of expenditure or payment of the budget, I do not know how it works, and it is in no way free. Similarly, a reduction in renewable energy charges would actually be a reduction in renewable energy investments, but this is backwards. It is still a terrible pity to listen to how people are going to the remote, and I am not talking about experts here at the moment, but about politicians and dreaming of a floor-fired cold chamber, with floor heating hotter than this cooling. That's what it looks like. And then we'll be told about history, this most trivial shit about how we've actually had an ice age, and actually we've been warmer. It's pathetic, really pathetic! This is what the whole group is saying. And it is sad, in turn, that this price issue has been made the most important issue in the world, the price of one commodity. This is ridiculous. The poor must be supported separately and the poor must be supported separately by the consumer price index and not by the price of one commodity. You say the electricity goes everywhere, but you only hold on to one price. The gas's in order. Other items are in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U112	Thank you. I now ask Erki Savisaare, representative of the Group of the Estonian Central Party, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Please! Yes, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good guys in the hall and the transmission monitors! Today's theme setting here in the grand hall of the Riigikogu is undoubtedly appropriate. The prices of the rapidly rising energy carriers affect all the people of Estonia and it is important to find out why this has happened and how to proceed. There were signs of danger long ago, but many important decisions have become entangled in political struggles. Under the leadership of the Centre Party, the Government of the Republic made an operational first step now in the autumn, when it halted the planned increase in excise duty and introduced a smooth transition between 2023 and 2026 to ease the sudden increase in excise duties. Lower rates of excise duty help to keep prices lower, thereby curbing the growth rate of the consumer price index and the cost of living. In total, the government will contribute 265 million euros from the state budget in the coming years in order to keep excise duties at a low level, thereby supporting Estonian families, households and the business sector. There are a number of factors behind the price increase. This is a very multifaceted problem, which the country has little chance of affecting. Whether it is an exceptionally low snow winter, a dry summer, a market economy or geopolitical games in large countries. Also, all Estonians, including me, have reason to look in the mirror and ask why we do not have more renewable and controlled power generation capacity at low current cost. The construction of power plants is not going fast, but by making decisions today, contributing at national, local and community level, we will be able to connect significantly more windmills and solar parks to the network by next autumn. At the same time, we need to continue to discuss more actively whether the managed capacities will come to us from nuclear energy, from turning oil shale energy into carbon neutral, or whether geothermal energy or something newer and more innovative will be the solution. These decisions must be made quickly so that investors can start planning and capital-intensive work. These decisions are also needed by public undertakings in order to develop the electricity network in order to cope with the new situation. These are long-term solutions that bring down electricity prices when done wisely, and also ensure energy security, but in the distant future. What can we do now to make the heating period ahead easier? I would like to congratulate the government, where it was agreed in principle that network charges would be halved until March in order to reduce the price increase and that additional support would be provided for low-income households. The Centre Party Group is of the opinion that this is not enough and the people of Estonia need greater support and confidence in these turbulence times. Price increases are so steep that they also hit households and entrepreneurship with a high average income. Yes, entrepreneurship adapts, the Estonian middle class survives the shock, but this pain does not have to be so great, and we can do much more at national level to prevent people from coping with rapidly rising utility costs and from decreasing the competitiveness of companies. In order to speed up the process and develop suitable solutions, the Centre Party convened a panel of experts to find sustainable solutions to the rapid rise in prices. The first meeting took place yesterday with representatives of Utilitas and Alexela. We will certainly continue to debate, because the range of issues relating to price increases is considerably wider than it seems at first sight. There are, in fact, many possibilities for implementing different measures. European Commissioner for Energy Kadri Simson pointed out that vulnerable consumers can receive financial support, either a fixed income, offer vouchers or pay part of their energy bills. So the ball is clearly in the government's hands, and the Centre Party Group will certainly support the implementation of mitigating measures. Consideration should be given, for example, to temporary reductions of VAT, which would support all families and businesses in Estonia. This is a budgetary neutral measure, since neither the current budget nor the next year's budget takes into account the prices of electricity, gas and fuel that are so high. I take this opportunity to call on companies providing district heating services and housing associations to enter into agreements in good time, so that families who may face difficulties in paying utilities during the cold winter months have the opportunity to postpone payments for the spring summer period. In view of the future, the proposed sheaves are of key importance. Unfortunately, the main organiser of today's debate, EKRE, has underestimated the challenge and has gone on to address the issue of lighter resistance. The thinking exercises of the EKRE's leading members on the withdrawal from the EU and CO2 trading system are not realistic. Fortunately, there are other thinkers among the EKRE members. For example, the former Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk has publicly stated that leaving the CO2 trading system is neither possible nor meaningful. I wish Rene every success in explaining these positions within the political party. I hope that this will ultimately lead to constructive discussions. The Centre Party Group considers it important that the Government of the Republic takes into account the changes in the energy sector in the negotiations on the climate package within the European Commission. We believe that achieving the increased green targets must not reduce people's livelihoods. The Government of the Republic must take into account both the livelihood and competitiveness of Estonian residents and our companies in shaping its positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U114	Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my condolences to Rene, of course. But indeed, the former Minister for the Environment is one of the few people in the party who recognises the global scientific consensus on the human nature of climate change. It is, of course, a rather sad story that in the Estonian Parliament in 2021 it is said that it is 1919. This concerns global challenges in environmental matters, which are not just academic, but actually represent the greatest threat to the Estonian state and people in the long term. The effects of climate change are already here. This is the context in which we should discuss energy. This is the context in which it settles. When we talk about whether it makes sense to do something or whether it makes no sense to do it faster or slower, we need to understand what the basic facts are. This suggests that reasonableness can be assessed. When we read the international climate panel's fresh research, everyone can do it, ipcc. we know, then, that the time to reduce carbon emissions in world societies, including Estonian society, is very short. There's no time to wait 30 or 40 years. That's why we have to act now. This is what the European Union has done and will certainly continue to do, because there is no alternative to it. It can't be said that a hero is one of those things that, uh, we're not doing it. This alternative does not exist. It is not possible to have such a position in a sustainable and responsible manner. I'd like some more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U116	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U117	Now, from this frame, we'll go to the electricity. All that is said here about the need to reduce or reduce electricity prices in the short term, given that, in the context of the uncertainty of these political decisions and for various other natural or logistical reasons, we have a rapid rise in the price of electricity, we have to offer our consumers, both domestic consumers and entrepreneurs, relief, that is a fact, that must be done. Whether it is the best proposal to reduce VAT or to compensate for renewable energy charges or to reduce network charges can be argued, but the objective is actually one and that is the right direction and it must be done. Of course, it should be done more. I think the principle here could be that the money that the state earns from the additional high energy prices is from the revenue from the CO2 quota, from the more than forecast, or from the additional VAT, will be redirected back to consumers in one way or another in order to provide relief. One way or another. This would be important in the same socio-economic sense, but on the other hand, it would also be very important in the longer term in order to maintain and increase people's support for the same inevitable green turn process that we are facing. In order for people to see that these changes at times will certainly be uncomfortable, sometimes painful, but that it will not be left by the government simply so that, well, as Jürgen said, you see, 2.5%, uh, you survive, but actually come and this relief is considered important and offered. There's no argument about that, I guess. I could do more. I'm sure there's going to be an argument. Mr Savisaare's very good proposals, I think the Social Democrats will be happy to support. I think that there will be a very broad consensus here on these proposals, I only hope that he will not back down himself. However, it is also important to be principled in presenting your views, without doubt. In the short term, when we talk about the next ten years, the academician Hamburg brought out nicely this well-known classical triangle, three important aspects of electricity production. It is a very important tool to understand these choices and the complexity of the whole area. I would not agree with one concept that it has been unbalanced. I think that at different moments it is necessary to direct the electricity sector or the power generation sector in one direction or another, depending on where the shoe squeezes most. If we have a problem with security of supply, then we need to focus more attention there. It does not disbalance this system, but actually shifts this balance point to the other side in order to ultimately meet all the three objectives that are needed. What we are now doing in this very climate change context is that indeed, we are in a situation where adequate renewable energy capacity has been delayed. Instead, in a large number of European countries, there has actually been a mass of crap, i.e. wood burned for the consumer tariff, including Estonian trees, and then it has been thought that you will see, by agreement, the emission has decreased. Actual emissions have increased, forests have been cut more, and as a result, alternative real investments in fuel-free renewable energy capacity were not completed in time. Now we are in a situation where we do not really have enough, but we do not have enough. Consequently, over the next decade, this is a transitional period where, unfortunately, we are actually paying at a higher price of CO2 and, I fear, also at the price of electricity, that transition phase will be closed in order to really have additional renewable energy capacities on the market. But in the longer view, in the next decade, nothing will prevent Europe from being there by now that electricity is cheaper than it was in the fossil fuel product. This simply requires an ambitious start to move with the technology that already exists today. As a result, Estonia plans to have very little ambition for 40% of renewable electricity by 2030. Very little ambition! Two sea wind parks provide us with 100% renewable electricity on the books. And we can't build them in ten years. Well, how is it possible that we can't? Of course we can. Ambitious targets must be set. Of course, on the other hand, connections with other countries must also be improved. For example, currently in Finland electricity is twice as cheap as in Estonia, because we do not have a third cable with Finland. So from a long perspective, I think we really don't have an alternative in real life. However, in the short term, it is undoubtedly important to help the consumer in this situation. I also mean businesses here, certainly companies should not stop their production because we have had a volatility on the market that it should not have. And I believe that this is the obligation that lies before us. But given the acute nature of the climate crisis, there is no doubt that we must not conclude from this that we are going back in time and we are happily heating the furnace forward. The Estonian state, the Estonian people and the peoples of the world do not really have such an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U118	Thank you. And now I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põllea. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U119	Electricity prices and inflation in Estonia are the highest in Europe. Price increases threaten the daily livelihood of the people, the sustainability of the country's economy and social stability. In Estonia, this is mainly due to the CO2 quotas established by the European Union. Our electricity consumers will have to pay at least EUR 250 million more than a year earlier at current electricity prices. This increases all prices without exception, both producer and consumer prices. Fossil production has been made expensive by artificially conscious and deliberate political decisions, despite the fact that decarbonised production is not enough now or in the near future. It is absolutely astonishing to claim that the high price is due to the fact that we have little renewable electricity production. The high price is due to the objective of abandoning fossil fuels and accelerating it in an ever-increasing quota price situation where energy consumption is growing and there are no other real alternatives. The transition to some utopian new technologies is dim because there are no new technologies yet. And even if it was, the new one is always more expensive. Renewable energy is a partial solution, as are the large offshore wind parks planned for the Estonian coast. They have the same problems as today's wind farms: no wind, no electricity. There is no wind in Estonia for nearly three-quarters of a year. We can scale the number of wind farms a hundred times, but it doesn't bring more wind. Wind conditions on the sea are better, but in order to compensate for periods of still air, we need to produce fossil oil shale electricity of exactly the same volume today and in the future, and that is why we are being forced to do so, even though there is no chance. The possibilities for storing electricity are, unfortunately, close to zero, at least for decades to come. There is no indication that renewable energy will be left over and prices will go down, as the green turns and decarbonisation that are a prerequisite for climate policy will require more and more electricity. Without the quotas for CO2 from green policy, electricity would be several times cheaper. However, with the climate policy that has gone beyond reality, there is no doubt that the CO2 quota and electricity will continue to increase. This is, after all, the undisguised goal of both the Commission and today's Reform Party and the Central Party government. So do the bastards. The Commission has no elementary forecasting capacity. This year's CO2 price was estimated at EUR 23; in reality, it is more than EUR 60. In 2030 91 were predicted, but given today's trend, it will probably be at least 300 or more. There is no substantive analysis of the consequences of climate policy and the green turn and of the future of the energy economy. All of this has not been thoroughly negotiated in the European Union and has not actually been agreed. For some reason, greeners do not want to speak honestly about the huge pollution associated with the construction and utilisation of wind and solar parks. Green turns are largely based on artificially induced climate hysteria and incitement to fear. Neither does solar energy bring a solution: no sun, no electricity. In addition, the price of renewable energy will be increased by public support of €100 million per year, and it will be added to the already very high stock market price. We all pay for this as a renewable energy charge on electricity bills. I recall that, already years ago, the Competition Authority indicated that if renewable energy charges were reduced by 75%, producers' profits would still remain high. Our electricity market and prices are not due to market logic, but to policy. Without a reversal of the political decisions that have been made by the horrendous electricity hug, there is no way that electricity prices can come down. The government must have an action plan to mitigate the rise in electricity prices both within Estonia and in the context of pan-European rules. However, there is no plan. There is also no impact analysis, which is brought about by the increase in prices in a socio-economic way. The Prime Minister has said that the high price of Estonian households will not be shaken. People on low incomes can ask for support from municipalities. This is a cynical and humiliating solution, the effect of which will be zeroed out by inflation. High electricity prices are devastating for our entire business, economy and competitiveness. This will lead to an increase in unemployment, a wave of bankruptcy and a socio-economic disaster. However, the government refuses to take effective and lasting measures; it has not agreed to abandon its green-turned plans and Põxit. The government's plan to enter into long-term contracts for the purchase and sale of renewable energy at a fixed price for ten years is absurd at today's price. It does not lower prices, but guarantees extremely high prices for a number of years. The fact that, under pressure from the opposition, the increase in excise duties on electricity and fuel was postponed does not reduce the price of electricity. Moreover, a temporary reduction in the permitted network charges is not enough. It is also little that at the meeting of the European Union's energy ministers, Estonia expressed its mokaots that the emissions trading system needs to be adjusted. A system that strangles and damages Europe as a whole must be sent to the trash. There are no consequences other than the relocation of production elsewhere and the economic decline of Europe. The price of electricity raised by stupid political decisions must be brought down by wise political decisions. It would also stop inflation. The EKRE has made a number of proposals for this, ranging from the withdrawal of the CO2 quota system, the abolition of network charges, the reduction of excise duties, the abolition of renewable electricity charges to the reduction of VAT, etc. There are many possibilities and combinations, but the government has no will for discussion. Estonian consumers are very sensitive to rising electricity prices. According to surveys, nearly 70% of our people do not support the European Union's climate goals if it means a multiple increase in prices and a drop in living standards. In the EKRE's view, the indifference of the government, the impoverishment of our people and the destruction of the economy for the sake of extreme left-wing roteology are unacceptable. The price of electricity must be brought down permanently and immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U120	Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Sven Sester. Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I actually liked the discussion that was going on in this Chamber. Thank you very much to our experts who were in this chair, and I will virtually sign all the messages that the experts have brought out. Now, about how to bring down the price of electricity or how to bring down the price of energy. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that over time we have become an energy importing country from the energy exporting country. It's happened in time. We were one of the few countries in Europe that could export energy, but today with the various activities that have previously been agreed at European level, we have become importing. This actually means that one of the important trumps we have had is the possibility of using oil shale [is lost]. I would point out here that I believe that we have three important things that can be pointed out in relation to oil shale. This is the resource we have. This is the knowledge gained over a hundred years of how to use it and the technology that gives it the opportunity to use it. We have them all. But as a result of various changes, we have reached a situation where, in essence, oil shale has been able to be used in reduced volumes, if any. Here's the first question. The energy market cannot be managed solely by unmanageable technologies. There must certainly be a balance between manageable and unmanageable technologies. Our call has been in the past, and here too, I say that the government should certainly make the maximum possible for the transition and the 'oil shale' exit to take place as long as possible and we can use the resource we have. I very much liked that Professor Alar Konisti's slide pointed out that unlike gas, coal, oil and uranium, the price of oil shale does not depend on the world market price. That's the way it is. In addition to managed and unmanaged technologies, fossil and renewable sources are fossil sources. Of course, we very much welcome the fact that different renewable energy options will enter our market. I would point out that solar energy opportunities have increased in Estonia thanks to various tax incentives, not to mention wind energy. It is certainly a matter of taking steps in this direction. But what matters is what ambition is, climate ambition. If we want too high levels of renewable energy for ourselves too quickly, this means that we are going to pay for it. We are actually seeing this to some extent today. There are different reasons why today's market price for energy is high, but surely one of the reasons is also our own ambition, which we are trying to agree at European level. Looking at the reasons for the price increase, Arvi Hamburg brought them out nicely. There are different reasons for what is now there, since the level of hydropower in the Nordic countries is significantly lower than in the past, the rise in the price of CO2. We ourselves have artificially created this deficit, that is, us, Europe. We have agreed that we will gradually withdraw the CO2 quota from the system, which in turn means that the price of the remaining quota will simply rise. It is our own creation, it is our own agreement for the future, as we will see this carbon quota price formation in the future. All in all, the rise in the price of the CO2 quota has created a situation where it is essentially the reason why we cannot produce oil shale energy in the form of electricity. And soon we will also see this problem with oil shale oil. Arvi Hamburg also pointed out the volatility of renewable energy production. I think that's exactly what's happening. This is an uncontrolled form of energy. At some point there may be wind, at some point there may not be wind. Closing of coal and nuclear power plants in different countries, with an automatic increase in gas prices. Today, it has risen six to eight times and its effects are, in fact, only beginning to be felt in Estonia. What I'm saying is, if we're talking more about rising electricity prices right now, I think that somewhere in November we're seeing other numbers on our warm-up bills than district heating is increasingly and more using gas in addition to pulp. I understand that the share of gas is going to increase to a level of +5 degrees and below. We're already in this situation today, when we came to work this morning, we saw a temperature around zero. The share of gas is about to increase. In reality, this means that people who use district heating will soon see a much larger heat bill. This is a question that we need to resolve in order to overcome the price shock. Arvi Hamburg also pointed out very nicely that the climate itself was also [the cause]. Really, we can't control it. At one point, when there are cold winters or hot summers, it automatically affects production as well. But what decisions can we make? Today was a question of how to actually bring down the price of electricity. I don't think that electricity prices themselves we can control. No, I am certainly not a proponent of this country, who says that the price of electricity must be like this. Electricity is a stock exchange. But let us not forget that the electricity bill consists of five different things: electricity prices, network charges, renewable energy charges, excise duties and VAT. What have we done? We have agreed basically on excise duty today, we have brought it down from EUR 4.47 to EUR 1. We've made this deal. Looking at us from the Fatherland, we've put quite a few proposals on the table. Firstly, paying attention to renewable energy charges. Thanks to the CO2 quota, we will receive a much higher income in the state budget. It's a lot bigger than that! If we counted 80 million before, now we're talking 200 million. Half of it has to go to carbon neutrality, but the rest of the money we can channel where we want as politicians. We could focus this on reducing the charges for renewable energy. The second proposal concerns VAT. Four-man proposal: Reinsalu, Sester, Hamburg and Priidu Pärna. Four men have proposed a temporary reduction in the price shock, I emphasise, from a temporary 20% point of view, to 9%. It is a simple and clear measure, it is easy to do and it is understandable to everyone. I say once again here that I think the government's decisions today are a little late and a little weak. Those are lame decisions. Tough decisions! If the government wants us to start begging for income support at one point, it's the wrong approach. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in these discussions the right steps must finally be taken, because the price shock is already in place or is imminent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U122	Thank you very much. Now all the representatives of the political groups have made speeches, and I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kalle Grünthal. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to talk about a green turn. The question is that it is purely propaganda. Propaganda is a powerful weapon that can have a massive influence on the opinion of the population for one cultural, political or any other purpose. Joseph Goebbels, the Nazi German propaganda minister, has already said that propaganda is to win people for what I think is right. He explained that at first there is knowledge, it becomes ideology, and then ideology uses propaganda to find people who turn knowledge into politics. The last example was at the meeting of the European Union Affairs Commission, where a representative of the Estonian Green Fund came and became a climate expert, but could not answer the question of how big CO2 emissions of the European Union are, which is 9%, and could not answer the question of how big Estonia's emissions are of what is 0.01, claiming that it is 1, nor did he know absolutely nothing about the solar wind. But this kind of propaganda brainwashing is taking place in this area, such as climate warming, climate change on earth, which will result in Estonia giving up its security guarantees, production of local electricity on the basis of oil shale and even cars in the future. The propaganda of climate change can even be understood if there wasn't one thing here: why did the United States withdraw from this climate change agreement, and why did Endel Lippmaa, a respected academic [known], say that global warming is a mess, because carbon dioxide released into the air by man has only a negligible effect on this process? I also asked the Vice Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment and the reason was amazing. Indeed, the US does not consider the baseline data used as the basis for the survey to be correct and appropriate, since they only deal with data from the later period of the world and climate change modelling has been carried out with certain limitations. Trump says he has only one responsibility, it is a duty to the Americans, but the climate agreement is vague, undermines the country's economy, paralyzes workers, weakens sovereignty. Now briefly, however, why Endel Lippmaa believes that climate change propaganda is not true. It was also published in the Estonian Express newspaper in 2008. In his view, the sun wind is absolutely the most important factor that man cannot influence. All power is simply in the sun. Secondly, he also followed this intergovernmental climate change panel very closely and found it to be manipulated. According to him, recently, James Hansen, the father of the theories of global warming, and the initiator of the intergovernmental panel, were not present and measurements at the Mauna Loa Observatory were honestly recorded. So, what did the graph show? The level of CO2 in the atmosphere began to decline, not to rise. Of course, this fall was corrected for the rise again, on the unofficial grounds that there was hard disk crash on the server, the data was lost and had to be recreated from figures in the same period last year. Endel Lippmaa asks how CO2 affects the climate. Of course, greenhouse gases are like a blanket of a man sleeping around, without them, the earth's unviable iceball. But carbon dioxide accounts for only 5% of greenhouse gases; it is quite irrelevant; the most important greenhouse gases are water vapor. But for some reason, the Kyoto Protocol does not make any mention of this. Why can't I? Because the Kyoto Protocol is the result of the New York Treaty, which is actually the basis of the Kyoto Protocol, it is all there. The Kyoto Protocol simply changed the definition of greenhouse gases. But there is only one thing we can conclude from this: a protocol that changes the substance of the agreement is invalid from the moment it is signed. However, Endel Lippmaa asks why such demagoguery should be needed and answers himself: to make money. Meteorologists receive research funding for research, and they also sell CO2 quotas. In his view, this could be manipulated to the tune of trillions of euros. It's a hard job. But what would it be like to sell windmills that would otherwise have no market and clean coal power plants or CO2 underground pumping equipment, which, by the way, is very dangerous because it also leads to oxygen underground, which we have for 140000 years. It's a little small for humanity, but it's obvious that there's plenty left for the average politician. So there's no science here, it's pure politics. Next, 9% is CO2 emissions from the European Union, of which 0.01 is Estonia's share. At the same time, no other country in the world has come along, and there has been a recent announcement that China is opening new coal mines in order to produce electricity. Question: How is it possible to boil such hotter soup in such a common kettle? If that is possible, please let me know, I will inform the persons concerned. The point is that climate change is constantly happening on earth. It is known that there have been at least three ice ages in the history of the earth, associated with a significant increase and decrease in the temperature of the earth, and it is not possible to consider human activity as a factor. Consequently, by quoting Endel Lippmaa, climate policy is only behind someone's big profitable business plan. Finally, the words of President Kersti Kaljulaid, who gave a very peculiar message to the reporter at the opinion festival last year when he said this: "For example, we do not have to argue today whether climate change is man-made. It doesn't matter. It is enough for us to know that Estonia is a Member State of the European Union and that the European Union takes into account the neutrality of CO2 when shaping its climate policy. This knowledge is enough for us to take action. " These are the stories of this turn of green. Congratulations, green-turners!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-10-14_U124	Thank you. Now, we have exactly three minutes until the sitting is over. I would first of all like to thank the initiator of this topic, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I thank Alar Konisti, I thank Arvi Hamburg and Martin Helme for their presentations, and I also thank all the members of the Riigikogu who have spoken here and who have asked. The negotiations are over. We have the order that, at the end of the debate on a crucial national issue, we will not take a decision. And this is also the last item on the agenda, so we have addressed one item on the agenda. I will now take the chairman's break three minutes, and that concludes the session. Thank you.
