ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U1	Honourable Riigikogu and members of the government! Let's start our three-day briefing. First, please check your presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U2	25 members of the Riigikogu are present, 76 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas and Minister of Economy and Infrastructure Taavi Aas. As usual, members of the registered Riigikogu will first get the opportunity to ask the question. They will also have the opportunity to clarify the question, and then one more question from the hall. The question is two minutes long. There are three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U3	The first question is asked by Urve Tiidus and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U4	Prime Minister! On 3 January a year ago, Chinese officials informed about unexplained cases of disease in Wuhan, the World Health Organisation. Then there was talk of an unknown cause of viral pneumonia. Soon everyone in the world knew about the new virus SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19. Three months later, the infection caused by new coronavir spread rapidly between continents. By this morning, more than 96 million cases have been registered worldwide, 2 million of which have ended fatally. Today, infections in Estonia are 37941, unfortunately, 344 people have had to give up the disease. While most people began the longest biology lesson in life, figuratively speaking, the health system has literally been tested every day. The new situation in work organisation, restrictions, social distance, as well as subconscious fear of infection has become part of our daily lives. And, as usual, during outbreaks, the main burden falls on people in the front line: doctors, nurses, other hospital workers, as well as those who simply have to associate with many people. You, Prime Minister, have received a lot of information over the course of the year. You have a very good overview of the functioning of the Estonian health care system and also of the more serious cases where human lives are in the hands of a doctor. The toughest forecasts, if we remember, have been that the number of patients in need of hospital care can reach 1,000. Fortunately, this has not happened. Please share the most recent information about the treatment of COVID-19 patients in Estonian hospitals, how regular care is done alongside this, how the healthy health care system has managed. And what has been your most serious lesson to the head of government in this pandemic year?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you very much for this question or for these questions. First of all, as of this morning, the hospital is in hospital, as we know, over 400 people, namely 405. Yesterday it was 424 and the highest figure has been 444. Your question was about managing hospitals under the conditions of COVID-19. Estonia has been dealing with COVID-19 disease every day throughout this year or, let's say, a month less than a year since the end of February last year. According to the scientific council, infection has stabilised in Ida-Virumaa and Harjumaa, but the spread of infection is extensive throughout Estonia. When we talk about spreading, we see from various studies that in fact the prevalence of the disease is higher than it was at the end of December, and it is much higher. That is certainly a very serious concern at the moment. The increase in COVID-19 patients requiring hospital care has also stabilised in recent weeks. Yeah, you're right, there's been some predictions that if R doesn't fall, then hospitalization maybe 1,000 people or even more. Today we can really say that this figure is around 420, a few days a little bigger, a few days a little smaller. As of yesterday, R, the infectious coefficient, according to the Scientific Advisory Panel, had fallen below 1. This is between 0.9 and 0.95, with confidence intervals. It is clear that the Estonian medical system, the hospital system, has shown, I dare say, a high-level pilotage, has shown a very professional attitude. This has given a very large number of people the opportunity to return safely after being hospitalized. Estonian doctors and, more generally, all Estonian medical workers, all health professionals have done an excellent job. What weren't we ready for? I don't think we were ready in society as a whole, but also in Europe and the world as a whole, that at some point the planned treatment could actually be interrupted by some kind of virus. This has actually been the 'last border' or the last wall we have always meant. We have tried to ensure that scheduled treatment is not completely interrupted, as was the case in December. It has meant all the other restrictions so that we do not have to cross this wall. At the same time, it cannot be said that the scheduled treatment is one hundred percent as without the virus. It was a brief overview of the answer to your question, Mrs. Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U6	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U7	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. The last year has shown us all the importance of expertise and scientific arguments at all levels in managing processes. We have also experienced that no one has the ultimate truth; science itself evolves with the real events of victory. It's the same subject as the virus's adaptation, second-time infections, the effects of vaccines. Health experts claim that people's own actions can be the main trigger for new waves of infection, not so much the virus itself. What would give people the assurance that this crazy period will pass, that the virus will retreat, that life will return to normal, or that it will go on to normal? Please say this as a head of government during this difficult period, but also as a normal person!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U8	Thank you. What gives this fortress? I think it will certainly provide certainty that we have managed to and here I mean Estonian society, the people of Estonia, to stand up to this virus smarter than we did in spring. We have a lesson to learn from spring. Of course, the light the whole world's been waiting for is vaccines. Vaccines can, I think, very much change this situation. They should, in any case, hold back the collapse caused by this virus in society, the fall in society, both the health crisis and the economic crisis, and should return to recovery. As you said very rightly, that should mean that we can return to normal life. I think that we must all make an effort to ensure that the vaccine comes as soon as possible. At the same time, we know that there are problems with supplies across Europe. Estonia has put maps on all vaccine candidates and I think this has been the right approach. You rightly said that life has shown how important it really is not only to make science, but also to implement science in everyday life. And I'd say in the last ten or eleven months, the government has not imagined what it was doing without a science council. You could say that, of course, we haven't broken the law, but there's been a minister in this government all along at the university, and it's been a scientific council, especially Professor Irja Lutsar. But the truth is, science doesn't come with final answers today either. What does that mean? That means the questions you mentioned, too, that if a person has received two doses of vaccine, how long this vaccine will actually work. Does he work for six months? Does he work for ten months or some other period? We do not have the final scientific truth because it has not been possible to explain these indicators. This period has been too short. I just want to say one more thing that I really appreciate. This has been the cooperation of Estonian authorities during the last 11 months, a very strong contribution by everyone. It has been clear how the Health Board has grown in the best sense, become more professional, stronger. The Police and Border Guard Board has been involved in this all along, as has the Agency. We cannot exclude our defence capabilities, even the same symbolic and very substantive step that was taken in the spring when the Defence League hospital was set up in Kuressaare. So everybody's been betting. In the interests of people's mental health, our cultural field has made a very important contribution to maintaining it as healthy and strong as possible, as well as our faculty.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U9	There are no further questions on this subject, so I will stop dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U10	Next, Aivar Sõerd will be asked and will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U11	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, At the end of last year, a few days after the Riigikogu had adopted the state budget, the government approved the road maintenance plan in accordance with the State Budget Act and the financial plan of the budget strategy that is annexed to the State Budget Act. Now, if we look at this road-saving plan approved by the government, this year about half of the road money is reserved for keeping roads and about half is for development costs, constructions, etc. But already by 2023, the funding for the development of the road network will fall to EUR 28 million. It is true that there are no external instruments in the new period of the European Union, but as we know, there are 140.150 million of them over seven years. This, too, will not cover this decline. As we know, the finance minister of the government finishing his work was obsessed with the construction of the road network, these main roads, with PPP funds. That is why I am asking why this PPP solution is needed at all. At present, countries are receiving loans much cheaper. The Estonian state receives loans much cheaper than the private sector, but when it is built in the form of PPPs, the state will eventually have to pay the interest of this more expensive private sector. Why is it necessary that these designs and all these risks remain in the private sector and that the state finally has to pay for all this? Finally, this preparation of PPP projects is much more time-consuming than building the state budget directly with money. I'm asking why I can't build roads with loan money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U12	Thank you for your question. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Once again, thank you for your question. If you answer very briefly, of course you can. If you go into the content, the road plan can only be based on the established budget strategy; in principle, it is not possible to write in other figures. The current road plan is also based on the country's fiscal strategy. We all understand very well that there is not, yes, European Union funding, which will certainly be added when decisions are made. But we all understand, too, that in order to build our roads faster, additional funding is needed. Will this money be found in the Estonian state, or will it be found in the state budget, or will it be borrowed to build the infrastructure, or will it be found in the third option, which is the proposed PPP project? If you put these options in order how much they cost, then in fact, this order is such that first the state's own money, then the loan money and finally the most expensive PPP. In fact, the PPP offers the possibility that if it is not recommended to increase the country's credit burden, it is really possible to build a path by applying the PPP. Of course, it must be taken into account here that periodic payments will, of course, have to be found in the state budget in the future. Now, what's the rate for the next government: do you want to continue with the PPP or do you want to make other decisions? It is very difficult to answer today. Certainly my preference is for the state to do it itself, because it is indeed cheaper. However, if these options are not found, the PPP option should also be considered. But as I said, in the order of priorities, it should be the third highest, before that, the state's own money or the loan money.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U13	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U14	Thanks for the explanation. I would also like to clarify this road plan and now, more specifically, I will ask you about the coming years. It is clear that there will be no PPPs this year or next year. At best, these purchases will be reached in 2023 or 2024, if any, because their preparation is rather difficult and Estonia has no experience. But let's leave these PPPs. So what happens this year? You've said there are 40 kilometers of four-line roads in construction this year. The largest section is the SpongeBob section, which is the main part of it. But there are also two new sections: Kärevere-Kardla before Tartu, when you come from Tallinn, and then after Pärnu-Uulu section. If we take all the new sections that are now going to be done, they have been prepared for quite some time, the projects should be ready. What's the schedule for these new paragraphs? Where are we going this year? You've told me that 40 kilometers over 5 kilometers will be open for traffic by the end of the year. With these new sections of Käre vere-Kardla and Pärnu-Uulu, do they reach the stage that the construction is already underway or even the road rollers are being sent out?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U15	Thank you. First of all, we really have a section of Võõbu and Käre vere in the building this year. And you can also read the different level intersection of the circle of Tartu Riga, because in fact it is an object that is important not only for the city of Tartu, but for the whole of South Estonia, so that it can move better from South Estonia towards Tallinn. In addition, the section of the Pärnu-Uulu section on the Pärnu-Pärnu-Ikla road and the intersection of Väo knot on the Tallinn-Narva road and the special level of the Pavlov-Viivikond road on Sillamäe. The intersection of Väo knot and Pavlov-Viivikond on the Narva road in Tallinn will be completed this year. This construction's over. The section of Pärnu is a longer project, the end of which is foreseen for 2023. The section of Kardla and the Riga highway's special-level intersection of Võõõbu was planned for the years 2021 and 2022. There is also a design document for the construction of the Lubatse section of Nurme. Here we have to decide whether this is being done as a PPP project, as a pilot project or as a national project. The odds are there. It is true that it will take longer to prepare PPP projects or at least to prepare the first pilot project. All the legal documentation must be put together, everything from the beginning. In the case of the following projects, this process would certainly be faster and simpler. I think it is up to the next government to first decide whether it is intended to launch this process at all, to make an example of a pilot project and thus prepare all of this documentation, to go through this process, to gain experience and then to make a final decision, after having gained experience, whether we go this way or whether we leave this option aside at all. Once again, it is up to the next government to decide how to do one pilot project, to carry out this process. But it is quite clear that if you go this way, the completion of the selected section will certainly be later, as you said, the beginning cannot be before 2023. It's possible the process is even more complicated, so maybe it'll take longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U16	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject. I will close this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U17	Let us move on to the next question by Kalle Grünthal. He'll be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U18	In December last year, you promised and promised, both in a reporter and at a press conference at the House of Stenbock, that the examination of Estonia's doom must take place transparently, honorably and honestly, all the questions why must be answered. You also announced that you wanted to keep society fully open about the progress of the investigation through the press. Unfortunately, the actual situation is different. On 9 December last year, Estonia, Sweden and Finland held an informal tripartite meeting on the interpretation of the Estonian Tomb Treaty, but the public knows nothing about it. It has a classification stamp because it contains information the disclosure of which allegedly undermines the external communication of the State. Jens Haug, Director of the Safety Investigation Centre, also gave no information at the press conference about the works that Estonia was planning to perform on the wreck. Why are you cheating on the people by breaking your promise that the investigation will take place in full openness and its passage will be enlightened through the press?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U19	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Grünthal. I continue to believe that this very serious disaster, which has been in Estonia in recent history and which has been related to Estonian people in connection with the destruction of the ferry Estonia, has to be answered. I also continue to believe that this must be done as openly as possible, with the involvement of different organisations, and, of course, information should be given to the press. And I think that's exactly what happened. I think that when these new circumstances came out, we immediately said in the government, and I also said that the investigation must take place in a transparent, respectful and dignified way. And I'm sure that's how it's gonna go on. Now, we are not getting over or around certain international agreements that have been concluded in 1995. In my opinion, this principle, which has been reached today... I have just reviewed this morning, the Swedish Minister for the Interior has made such a statement last week or said that the Swedish Government is going to start a change of national law to allow for underwater surveys at the wreck of the ferry Estonia. On 18 December last year, safety investigation centres in three countries reported that further underwater research is needed to clarify new circumstances, in particular the mapping of the seabed and the filming of the entire hull to identify the damage and to identify the cause of the damage. Of course, I stress here that safety investigation centres work autonomously, work independently. But actually, there has always been a desire for investigations to be carried out on the seabed at the wreck. The government has decided on 1 October last year that new, previously undocumented circumstances should be investigated. And five days later, on 6 October, the government has specified what we want to do in the first stage. And these are the following actions. The position of the wreckage on the seabed must be identified and analysed and described whether and, if so, how it has changed compared to previous factual data. In addition, a detailed relief of the seabed in the immediate vicinity of the wreckage must be identified and described. Third, it is also necessary to establish whether there are pervading injuries in the hull and, if so, to document their exact parameters, location, size, including the nature of the injuries. Next, fourthly, the nature and time frame of the injuries involved must be identified and their possible relationship with the sinking of the ferry should be assessed. Unfortunately, I'm out of time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U20	Kalle Grünthal, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U21	Thank you. The previous government, or, let's say, the government, which is about to cease its activities, was setting up a committee to investigate the destruction of Estonia, where people such as Rene Arikas of the Maritime Administration, scientists Tarmo Soomere, Priit Kama of the Ministry of Justice, as well as Margus Kurm, known to everyone, would have heard. Unfortunately, because of your confrontation, the Commission did not form 'temporaryly'. The decision was taken on 17 December at the meeting of the Cabinet. At the same time, it is known to the public that the current Committee of Inquiry, which drew up the final report on Estonia, did not deal with assigning responsibility or blaming anyone. He gave the investigation a ride to the Safety Investigation Center. However, the result is actually the same, as § 1 of the current safety investigation procedure makes it clear that their aim is not to prosecute or prosecute. So, in essence, we are in the same position as at the beginning: the guilty are not once again sought, because it is not simply the competence of the Safety Investigation Centre. In this context, we are in a situation where we do not know what is being investigated and there is no possibility of influencing the process, as the Safety Investigation Centre is independent and independent in its activities. I am part of the group supporting the investigation of the doom of the Riigikogu Estonia and we have achieved significant results in this short period of time. There is evidence or at least there is a need to check the evidence that Russia has been diving there in the 2000s or, let's say, in some period deep-water divers. These things need to be controlled. Also... Well, we're running out of time. Why are you so desperately opposed to an independent, transparent and comprehensive investigation that would actually give peace to everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U22	Thank you. I will finish the answer to the previous question and tell you what else the government wants to do in the first stage. In addition, the examination of new circumstances must be independent, transparent and reliable. Representatives of close relatives in Estonia must be involved and informed. And as I said, it has been done many times. The decision of the government must be notified to Finland and Sweden and proposed cooperation in the further investigation of undocumented injuries. Finally, pending the appointment of the project manager, the State Chancellery will organise the preparation of the investigation with the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Now, in answer to your second question, where you said that I personally have suspended the establishment of such a committee, I assure you that this is absolutely not true. Today's government union, today's coalition partners have discussed the formation of such a committee. It's true. But we have jointly found that first we have to wait for the safety investigation centers to work. After that, it is right to set up a relevant government commission or a government commission. This has been our common position. Our wish really is, as the law says, and as you said, the Safety Investigation Centre can do its job independently and autonomously. And it's clear that there's a grave treaty. To change it, I know Sweden certainly needs to change the law, but I also think it is necessary to amend the law in Finland. And as I told you, Sweden is prepared to do so, at least according to the Minister of the Interior. And besides that, you said there was no appointed leader. Yes, it is. In fact, this whole issue has also been dealt with by the Secretary of State; it has also been a joint decision of the Government. It cannot be said that someone has come to this decision or that someone has fallen into that decision. I think that progress has been made on this subject at a good enough speed, and it has actually been expected to move with Sweden and Finland. And indeed, I am very pleased that the Safety Investigation Centre has also independently, autonomously in its work, reached the view that there is a need for further research, further research. And I very much hope that as soon as possible, this will be done. Those names that you mentioned, it's no secret that these names have been discussed. I think they're all respectable and respected people who could contribute to this job at some point. It has been the coalition's common position that this bet could come when the safety investigation centres have finished their work. And I also wanted to say thank you for the work of this support group here in the Riigikogu. I think it is extremely necessary to discuss this issue at the level of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U23	There are no more questions on this issue, I will stop looking at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U24	Let us move on to the next question by Ms Šmigun-Vähi, who will be answered by the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please! I can't hear you. I can't hear you! I realized Kristina Shmigun-Vähi was coming to the hall reading lips. So he's right around here. Wait a minute, please. Yeah, you have to put the card on, and then it works. Please, Kristina Shmigun-Vähi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U25	Thank you. And I'm sorry it happened, but we're all learning. I'm a little psyched, I'm not in that good physical form. In any case, thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Culture, Now I'm gonna do it shorter, okay? On Monday, new restrictions were introduced for sports clubs. Sports clubs are very concerned that information reaches them too slowly and is incomplete. It is desirable to know that if new restrictions are imposed on sports clubs, which studies are based on these restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Good questioner, congratulations on this aerobic heroic show to get to the hall. But indeed, from the 18th date, restrictions were extended in Harju and Ida-Virumaa. However, a slight change was made. Individual training, which was prohibited indoors in Harju County and Ida-Viru County until now, is now allowed. So from January 18th to January 17th, it is more possible to exercise indoors. I mean, they got the doors open. What kind of research does the government base its decisions on? It relies on the views of the Scientific Advisory Board. There are medical experts in this council, as well as people who know society more widely. So it's a scientific proposal. It can be said that the government made a decision that was even more favourable to sport than to the proposals of scientists by allowing sports clubs to be opened in version 1 + 1 for individual training. So in a way, you could say that the scientists' proposal was tougher, but we thought we could still move on. There's a healthy spirit in the whole body, and with physical, physical movement we can also defeat COVID, strengthen people's immune system. For my part, it was a step towards opening. But we work with scientists every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U27	Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U28	Thank you for your answer. Yesterday was very nice. We also got to meet you at the Committee on Culture and talk about it. But I'm sure this briefing will be followed by a bunch of people who would like to hear something from you in person. Yesterday, in fact, you told us that more than EUR 5 million would be allocated to the cultural and sporting sectors and that, from next week or the next week, the aid packages for the unemployment fund would also work. If you can, please repeat exactly when these unemployment benefit packages will work. The sports clubs in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa are concerned that the restrictions in these counties are much tougher than in the rest of Estonia. So they have the question of whether there is some kind of additional support where restrictions are stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U29	Thank you. Indeed, the restrictions have been different across Estonia because the spread of the virus has been different. And the government has always, when it has imposed restrictions, also included a crisis package that supports these associations, organisations, companies that are more damaging. In December, there were all-Estonian restrictions and restrictions in Ida-Virumaa. And then an additional crisis package was adopted, the distribution of which is the responsibility of the Ministry and the Sport Training and Information Foundation as an implementing unit. Further major restrictions, including Harjumaa restrictions and Ida-Virumaa restrictions, are a characteristic feature of them that they primarily affect the workforce, such as clubs. As a result, it is precisely the labour costs that need to be covered and the grant of this support has gone to the unemployment fund 100%. The unemployment fund shall open these measures at the beginning of February and shall be applied for by code. The employees in the register will automatically be compensated for the loss of wages that the company, the club, cannot pay them. So it should be, as has been argued and as the unemployment fund council has decided, 100% guaranteed. They'll get that support. But the government has paid very much attention to sport. As soon as possible, we also opened up an indoor 10 + 1 opportunity to re-sport in 13 counties, the rest of the counties in ambient air. A welcome decision, of course. Yesterday, we decided that the great public sports events in the Estoloppet series, six marathons, of which the Tartu Marathon is especially important, can take place. Trainings of top athletes and Estonian league clubs have been provided 100% and additional EUR 200000 has been allocated to the Health Board on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture to test athletes so that they can carry out additional tests if necessary. Athletes' health is monitored all the time. In addition, we are asking for priority to be given to the Olympic and Paralympic candidates for vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U30	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject, so I will stop dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U31	Let's go to the next questioner, who's Priit Onion. He is answered by Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please! Excuse me? [[There's something explaining in the hall.]] How? There's a technical flaw. Let's wait a minute. Priit Oniona's got his hand up. Can we hear him?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U32	I hope you can hear me and I can ask. Or what is this procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U33	I don't know, but it looks like the technical error is over now, and Priit Onion can really ask. But now he's gone again. Priit Onion, please! It's gonna take a minute, that problem will be solved. Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U34	Break's over. Ladies and gentlemen, the technical problem has been overcome. I now ask Priit Sibula to ask a question, to be answered by Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U35	Thank you. In answering the previous question, you referred to the role of science in Estonia's current corona crisis. This government, whom I want to praise, has taken the decision to increase R &amp; D funding to 1% of GDP, which is very important. Certainly, in small nation states, national sciences are very important, and my question is on this issue. For the first time, the Ministry of Culture has allocated funds for the additional funding of national sciences. I'm worried that this isn't a duplication now. For what and to whom exactly are these funds intended?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U36	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Indeed, with regard to the funding of science and the role of science in general, there has been a great deal of talk about the fact that science is the anchor of the knowledge economy and the engine of innovation. But perhaps less has been said and it is also felt in funding that there is no consideration for the variety of sciences. The role of science is also to learn about society and to study culture and language. The survival of our entire country is very much related to how we create the identity of this country and its people and how much we know about its language, culture, but also about nature. And here scientists have a big word to say. The foundations of the natural sciences financing model for humanitarian funding have not always been appropriate and, in the case of humanities, a number of important issues may not have been explored. Many researchers have to publish articles in international publications. Humanitarianism requires a different kind of progression. There is no division between the working group, so ten people sit in the archives and then the leader of the group has to do the basic work. This is a more individual effort, it requires more time and therefore further support for research in the field of humanitarianity. This, of course, is the case in advanced research. This is why the Ministry of Culture initiated a special public support programme for humanities within 1% of its GDP in the course of funding for science, so that high-level studies related to Estonian language and culture can be further supported by the Government and the decisions of the Riigikogu. It is not an alternative system of research funding to the research agency; it is a system of additional support to this. In addition to research, the popularization of science and the publication of monographs could be supported. We have cooperation with the Academy of Sciences at the Ministry of Culture. It is agreed that the Humanities and Social Affairs Department of the Academy of Sciences will set up a committee to evaluate the projects under which money should reach researchers. So I am pleased that there is an open national programme for additional humanitarian funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U37	Priit Onion, a more specific question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U38	Thank you. Because of your answer, I have a very specific question. Who can apply for funds there? Who are they intended for? For example, can local research institutions such as the Seto Institute and the Võru Institute apply there for money to study local tradition?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U39	Thank you for a good question. As I said, research at a high scientific level is supported, which is in line with the Frascati Handbook, which sets out the parameters for funding science in general and also takes into account sectoral proportions. So research must be at international level in every way. All researchers in the humanitarian field can apply. These are research groups, not the allocation of funds to institutes as bodies where this money could go to patch up their budget holes, and eventually it will not come to concrete new projects. A working group will be set up under the leadership of one scientist, who will definitely have to have a doctorate. There may be freelance researchers and emerited scientists, there may be researchers working at several research institutes. A purpose will be taken, and then the study will begin for this purpose. So the local cultural institutes are also free to participate in these research projects. In addition, I say that in recent years too, last year and this year, the Ministry of Culture has increased the funding of the Seto Institute and the funding of the Võru Institute this year. These are sub-languages, internationally recognised minority languages, the study and maintenance of which is a national and national obligation. So we have increased this funding. In addition, the Mulgi Culture Institute will receive more money. We support the rise of Abja-Paluoja this year as the capital of the Finno-Ugric peoples. I also praise the giants, the fangs, all the small nations who have studied their culture. In cooperation with university researchers, the humanitarian programme can certainly also finance these local cultural studies, because ultimately it will be studied by someone who loves his home and home country. This has certainly also made a very important contribution for Estonia as a whole and is a truly patriotic activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U40	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U41	Next thing you know, Marko Storm is asking. He is answered by Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please, be my guest, ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U42	Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U43	I can't hear you! You don't hear the question... Now we hear!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Perhaps you can add a few more seconds? The issue is business grants and the EAS measure 'Support for the implementation of business models for tourism enterprises'. They were opened on 7 January and, as far as I know, nearly 200 representatives of companies and a hundred entrepreneurs took part in the drafting of the information day. We know that this measure was implemented on the fast-fingered principle, which means that when the system opened at 9:00 on 7 January, it was possible to enter its applications within 26 minutes. With the cover, a few dozen applications were accepted for the evaluation. The measure itself targeted innovation and innovation in the business sector and a change in business model. In practice, it means hiring specialists, project management, paid consultations, dozens, if not hundreds, of hours of work to assemble applications, thus costing and nerve loss. In practice, this also means more time for uploading documentation and describing applications in the system. At the same time, we have built up the evaluation and procedure in a way that favours simpler and less demanding projects that can be uploaded faster. I have been approached by many frustrated entrepreneurs in Virumaa who are indignant about this treatment, and I regret to agree with them. We have deliberately or accidentally shaped a situation in which we expect the best and more thoughtful requests, but in practice, our procedure does not support this objective. Minister, can you give some thought to what we can do in the future, so that the hard-working and more complex business projects can receive due attention and be valued on an equal footing? That is the least we can do about entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U45	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Yes, unfortunately, I'm trying to answer for my fellow minister. There are two ministers in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and it is often the case that questions are asked to one or the other, which are more related to the field of another minister. In this case, that's exactly what it is. Indeed, EUR 4.1 million had been allocated and the Minister decided to reduce this amount. Later, it became clear that there were no doubt more applications. The fact that there are situations in certain areas where applications are more than there are resources is not the first time. And it is difficult to assess whether this EUR 4.1 million would have been sufficient to meet all requests. In the past, the situation was quite similar in a number of other areas, such as the funding of local government roads for business-related roads and transit routes. The same was the case in the past when the apartment buildings were renovated, when the rounds were filled very quickly, the amount of money needed to cover these rounds was not enough. I think that all these measures would actually need more funding. In this case, it is a support for the development of a new business model for tourism companies. I think it's wise to learn from this experience. We all want the Estonian state to put an end to this crisis as soon as possible and to come out of the crisis much stronger, so that companies are stronger and that they can implement new measures, new business models. I think it must be up to the next government to review the support measures for the various business sectors. It was also one of the goals of today's government. It is necessary to review these measures once again and to find out where it would be possible and necessary to redeploy money from measures whose money has not been spent as much as had been allocated.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U46	Marko Storm, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U47	Thank you very much, Minister. I fully understand that this issue does not fall directly within your responsibility. As far as I know, this Minister Raul Siemi's guideline was to reduce the volume of this round by almost half a few days before the measure was opened. But the question was, yes, perhaps more forward-looking and rethinking EAS' next funding measures, so that really those people who work harder and often also hire foreign aid would still be treated equally with all the other applicants. We all want the best projects to be funded, not just those that can be uploaded quickly. But I'm not gonna ask you again right now. Thank you. It is likely that my colleague, Annely Akkermann, will also ask about something similar.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U48	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U49	Next, Üllar asks Saaremäe and is answered by the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U50	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. The measure of the strength of society is that of being in the same information room. But in order to be in this common information room, it is necessary that all people in Estonia can speak the official language. In Ida-Virumaa, where I come from, these problems have persisted for decades. Often service providers either do not speak Estonian or do not speak Estonian. But as an example of the crime, we can also mention the Kohtla-Järve Gymnasium, where young people from Russian comprehensive school come with relatively poor Estonian skills. The Estonian language strategy has been and is still under discussion. Can you tell us how the teaching of Estonian should develop now and in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U51	Thank you, good questioner! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I came here with an briefing from the Integration Foundation, where its leader, Irene Käosaar and his co-workers, who are really doing their work with a great deal of commitment, took stock of last year. Last year we exponentially increased the funding for free language courses. In Narva and Tallinn, especially in these places, nearly 6,000 people received language learning, diverse language learning, last year. The intensification of adult language learning will undoubtedly continue, with the funds planned for the next few years. As far as the general perspective is concerned, of course [it is necessary to pay attention] to the basic and basic education system, both in kindergarten and primary school. With great effort, we have moved upper secondary schools to the Estonian language of instruction. And the new development plans also provide for the transition of kindergarten and comprehensive school to the Estonian language of instruction. The Estonian language development plan has been completed under the leadership of the Estonian Language Council. Did you notice that the previous version expired in 2017 and that the Language Council was also dissolved? During the new government, during this government, which is now ending a year and a half ago, we re-convened both the Language Council and launched the intensive promotion of this development plan. And indeed, this Estonian language development plan provides that the aim is to switch to the Estonian language of instruction in kindergartens and comprehensive schools. A financing table is also included. If it has been said that when this could happen, the annexed funding table provides for a period of 2025 to 2028 as a culmination. The ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Until 2028, so-called rising money is foreseen. As this process is financial intensive, teachers must be prepared, especially in certain areas where there are fewer speakers. It is necessary to prepare educational resources and pay extra to those teachers who are ready to teach in Estonian in Ida-Virumaa or Lasnamäe schools. It's an expensive process. But the resources are set for this and the objectives of the development plan are set, so the transition will take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U52	Üllar Saaremäe, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U53	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As I am still practicing the minor but important role of the opposition ambassador, I would like to ask you if you missed something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U54	It was not said that the development plan was, of course, a long step to real implementation. I hope that this agreement, which was in the coalition so far, will also be moved forward in the new coalition, because the transition of the education system to the Estonian language of instruction is very important. I recommend placing emphasis on the language immersion programme, which is actually mostly Estonian-language education in both primary schools and kindergartens. Currently, a third of the Russian-language primary schools have joined the language immersion programme and their graduates are quite well-skilled in Estonian, they also integrate into Estonian life and are able to do well in upper secondary schools. With the support of the language immersion programme, it would actually be possible to switch 100 percent to the Estonian language of instruction by simply developing the matter methodically, adding resources and coloring teachers so that children from Russian-speaking families, or, let's say, children from mainly Russian-speaking families, would have the opportunity to learn their own language in depth and to get to know their own culture. For me, the transfer of the education system to the Estonian language of instruction does not mean a "single Estonian school" on the surface as referred to, where a programme is simply made for everyone and it is said that please very much. In fact, most are determined by the language environment. After all, in school classes you can study in Estonian, try to do so, but if the rest of the school environment up to the activities of interest is Russian, then it means taking Russian to the Estonian school. Our task is still to take Estonian to Russian school. And therefore the basic definition could be general Estonian-language education, that is to say, a general Estonian language of study in all kindergartens and comprehensive schools in addition to upper secondary schools already at this level. This means that those who want to study their language and culture in depth will indeed remain separate from their programme, but children in Estonian can deepen and unashamed into Estonian-minded and language teaching and do not need to be "help teachers" in teaching the Estonian language to children in other languages.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U55	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U56	Thank you. At the coalition talks that I follow at home from the illness, perhaps I have not been as attentive as you have been, more has been said about Estonian-language learning, not about Estonian-language learning. It seems to me that mind is equally important in addition to language. For example, in Valga City, where the Centre Party exercises power, it was decided some time ago that the headmaster, who tried to get there with the bathtubs, was taken down and replaced by a member of the party who recently visited the city government or the municipality government and placed the crowns of Georg on behalf of the council. I'm researching what you think is the link between language and mind, and whether and what methodologies can be used. I am a member of the Estonian Language Problem Committee of the Riigikogu, and there we have been dealing with language learning and language teaching for quite a long time now for almost two years. And just as people are different, it cannot be said that there is one correct methodology or methodology on the basis of which learning and teaching should be successful [for all]. This is also demonstrated by the data provided by the Ministry of Education, according to which in different schools, regardless of whether it is a language immersion school, an Estonian-language school or a Russian-language school, the results vary well and still depend very much on the school, the school manager and the form in which these topics are transported. Please comment on these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U57	Thank you for your question. Indeed, learning the Estonian language is very important; learning the national language in terms of language learning is important. At the same time, in order to integrate into Estonian society, to know this culture, to be able to pass through the labour market and to study further, also in Estonian, Estonian-language education, an environment in Estonian, including the learning environment, is needed. We can develop it in such a way that there are more teachers in Estonian, who speak Estonian well, as well as other subjects [other than the Estonian language] taught in Estonian in order to be able to cope in life, other subjects are also important. You can be good or less good at a language lesson and get one grade, but then you will become more involved in other subjects and practice in studying Estonian in Germany, while in Sweden you may not be able to learn Swedish. That is why all other countries in Europe, nation states, have gone down the road that they have not built up a parallel education system in another language, because it is considered important to have a language that is often accompanied by a spirit. Of course there are exceptions. But still, if you know this culture, you're in the same information room, then there's spirit, I'm talking about students. In the case of teachers, there is also an education here in Estonia. By the way, we have not prepared teachers of Russian-speaking primary schools in Estonia in the post-independence period. Consequently, those who have learned to teach Russian schools come from Russia or are relatively elderly. It is difficult for them to teach in Estonian and perhaps to perceive the Estonian cultural programme. Because of the more we introduce Estonian-language education in schools, it also means teachers who have studied in Estonian and obtained higher education, [the more] there is a sense of mind. So, yes, I agree with you that language and insanity, especially for such a small nation and a small culture, are very involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U58	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U59	The next questioner is Annely Akkermann and is answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My previous speaker, my colleague, Mr Storm, has already dealt with this issue a little bit. And, frankly, I understand the embarrassment that issues in the field of tourism and business issues are being presented to you more widely, because Siem is not responding. On Monday this week, Siem did not even come to the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu to answer these same questions. I can imagine how he actually ignores the issues of the tourism sector and the business sector. As a member of the government, you are certainly familiar with the plans of the state to use the REACT-EU and the resources of the Refund, which are coming to Estonia. I know we're still negotiating. Will the business sector and the tourism sector more benefit from these funds than has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U61	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! I must admit that, as a member of the government, I have supported the view in this government that, in a crisis, the state must contribute more to the development of infrastructure in order to support construction companies, infrastructure builders and other sectors. I do not think that the current government has today made any decisions on how to use the remaining funds that we already have allocated to KredEx, EAS and MES today, because not all the funds were quite spent. And what I can say is that the new government, when it's put together, can look at these instruments again and make a decision as to whether to change anything. There is certainly a need to change something if resources are left over, but [the new government] can make a decision on how to change something and who will benefit from these changes. Now, as far as European funds are concerned, the outgoing government has made its proposals on this. In Europe, some of the proposals are being considered. The resources for the budget period can certainly also be reviewed by the new government and made proposals. With regard to the tourism sector in particular, the outgoing government has, on quite a number of occasions, supported this business sector with various measures. But I think that, since this is the area that has suffered the most from this crisis, it is certainly reasonable to allocate additional resources here. In what way to do this, it should certainly be up to the new government to decide whether it is a direct grant or whether it is a measure such as the new business model development measure that has been mentioned earlier, which could be better contributed. There is no doubt that this sector must come out of this crisis with some change.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U62	Annely Akkermann, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U63	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll bring out some numbers for Question Time listeners. Tourism accounts for 8% of the country's GDP and exports as much as 10%, totalling EUR 2 billion. Now that these large tourist operators, who are undoubtedly carriers of tourism exports, are located here in the centre of Tallinn, in large hotels, restaurants, conference centres, travel agencies, are not going to survive this crisis, the state needs to come up with a way to replace this 10% export. There are basically two methods of supporting tourism: labour market subsidies or vouchers implemented in some countries, distributed to potential customers. These vouchers have not been used in Estonia. Is it meant to be, and could they help?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U64	Thank you. Yes, the contribution of tourism to the Estonian economy is undoubtedly very large. But, of course, when we are planning these future measures, we must also take into account that, in the very form that the tourism sector entered this crisis, it certainly cannot go any further, at least not in the near future. There will undoubtedly be changes here. This is what makes it somewhat more difficult to support tourism enterprises than to support another area, because some part of the grants can go to a place where there is really nothing to save. In that sense, it's complicated, it has to be very thoughtful. But once again, these same new business models are certainly the place to support. As far as vouchers are concerned, this issue has been discussed by the current government. But I must point out that there is not quite a clear consensus on vouchers in the tourism sector itself. I think this is an issue that could be renegotiated with the tourism sector in the future, whether these vouchers should be applied and how they should be implemented. I myself consider the voucher system to be a major advantage of the state's part of the money and the person's part of the money. We all know that because of this crisis, people have not travelled very much. This, in turn, means that there are a lot of people who have money left over from traveling to accumulated bank accounts. The voucher system would help to bring this money to bank accounts into the economy, to bring it to the same tourism sector. In this sense, I think this would be a very positive measure of economic recovery or helping. However, once again, this measure must certainly be negotiated with the sector itself, because there is no clear consensus in the sector as to whether this measure will help them or whether this measure will not help them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U65	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U66	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Of course, the question should be directed at the minister responsible, but, as Mrs Akkermann said, she will not appear before the questioners, so you must be asked. I am pleased that you have mentioned that indeed the tourism sector that has been hit hardest by the various sectors is the sector, and you recognise that additional money is needed there. When comparing Estonia with other European countries, where the situation in the tourism sector is as bad, both per capita and GDP ratios have been ten times larger in some countries over the past six months than in Estonia. I understand that this issue is more targeted at the next government, but did the outgoing government otherwise intend to put more money into the last measure Annely Akkermann was talking about, so that the EUR 2 million taken away from it would be brought back there at the expense of some other measures, so that these innovation and tourism product development measures, which should now be in focus, could still be added to the extra money? There were over 200 applicants who were very thoroughly prepared for their projects, and it was known that the applicants were very much more. This was also known to the responsible minister, Siem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U67	Thank you. The honest answer is that it has not been possible for this government, which is currently in office, to discuss the allocation of additional funds to this measure. It is therefore very difficult for me to take a position on the position of the government. I understand that the position of the Minister in charge of the sector was such that there should be some reduction in resources, but once again: the government as a whole has not discussed this issue. However, this amount of requests received indicates that this was an appropriate measure. We have had quite a lot of such measures, I cannot say quite a lot, but there have been measures for which there have been insufficient requests and there has been a [financial] balance. It is reasonable to transfer funds from such measures. And now, if you ask where to place this money, of course, it makes more sense to place it in measures where the real interest is high and the money is used. Of course, requests must also be reviewed so that they are correct and feasible. Once again, I would like to compare this with, for example, the reconstruction of apartment buildings or local roads, where over the years the situation has been such that applications have been more than possible. Now we have been able to essentially satisfy all or almost all the requests received. I think that the new government should certainly also look at the tourism sector precisely as to where the tourism sector has its own interest in using money and where it really is the case that there are more requests than there have been opportunities to satisfy them. This will certainly ensure that the money goes to the right place. Once again, the tourism sector will certainly not emerge from the crisis as the crisis entered, and, of course, all possible new business models, new solutions will be reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U68	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U69	The next questioner will be Signe Riisalo and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please! [[Signe Riisalo hasn't been heard.]] I can't hear you. Signe Riisalo, I'm afraid we can't hear you. Is the mike in? I think he's coming to the gym. Jumped up from behind the screen, let's wait a minute. (Signe Riisalo reaches the hall.) Please, Signe Riisalo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U70	I'm sorry! It takes time to get used to this technique. The government is likely to impose restrictions at its best discretion, taking into account the opinions of the Scientific Advisory Board. Of course, the principle has been the greatest benefit and the least damage to society. But when we think individually about people, it has certainly been one of the important keywords that risks materialise, their likelihood being monitored. People who have been isolated from two weeks to ten days, when travelling to seven days, have been drawn back all the time. Given that people must continue to be responsible for wearing masks themselves, keeping distance, washing hands, meeting all these requirements, and finally allowing themselves to be vaccinated, or they have suffered from this disease, and are likely to have antibodies in their bodies and not be infected, although the test may give a positive result, what have been the discussions? I understand they were held last week. Are we going to treat people who have been vaccinated or affected by this disease a little differently, for example, in close proximity, and they are not subject to isolation?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U71	Thank you very much for your question. And I first congratulate the President of the Riigikogu; he is well aware that a member of the Riigikogu comes to the hall. I think this is a very important question that you are asking. I remember we had a conversation last week on the same subject with you, Mr. Signe Riisalo. Where are we today? We have come to this today, as I may have said in answering one previous question here, that there is science and we have always come in with new information. At the moment, the question has been raised as to how long the vaccines will work if two doses have been obtained. And what you are saying is that self-isolation or the quarantine period has decreased, it has also come through these weeks and months as new wisdom for Europe, the world, Estonia, so that really, we can reduce the quarantine period. After all, it is still a desire to keep society as open as possible. Now I have a technical problem. I think the answer time, three minutes, may not be all over, but I don't know how the Chairman of the Riigikogu says. How much more of this time can I use to make sure I don't do it badly?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U72	Yes, you can. You have at least a minute left.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U73	At least a minute, okay? Thank you very much. Now I come to your question. Yes, at the meeting of the Cabinet on 12 January, the Scientific Advisory Board and the Health Board proposed that persons who have suffered from COVID-19, or those who have been positive and who have been cured, should move without restrictions. They thought it could be based on a medical certificate. Here, in my opinion, is the question of whether this medical certificate should be international or internationally acceptable. At least in the first round, I think it could be acceptable at European Union level, within the Union. It was then stated that individuals who have received two doses of vaccine could also move freely six months after receiving the second dose of vaccine and that persons who have antibodies against SARS-Cov-2 in their blood, as determined in the last six months, could also have movement without restriction. Now we have such a debate: whether this also means that if someone in this honourable Riigikogu has received two doses of vaccine or disease, could he come into this room without a mask? At least the advice of the Scientific Advisory Board was that the requirement to ensure no, masking, hand hygiene and distance should in any case remain valid. But if you ask whether it is finally framed how things go across borders with self-insulation, etc., it is not yet finally in place and it is being discussed all the time. I very much hope that in the near future we will have such a final, say, guide for people who have suffered and recovered from COVID-19 or who have received two doses of vaccine.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U74	Signe Riisalo, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U75	Yeah, thanks! I have already received the answer to this second question, and that is what touched on the international view of how we will ever look at it within the European Union or in the wider world. However, I ask for clarification that, if a person has been vaccinated or affected by a disease and the antibodies are present in the blood, either in other areas, such as visits to loved ones in nursing homes or other similar situations, it has been a question of providing relief and individualising people, as a result of the signs we are talking about, of giving more freedoms.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U76	Thank you, that's a very correct question. I personally asked Professor Irja Lutsar about nursing homes. I think we need to ask this question in two directions. One direction is that if a person who goes to a nursing home as a visitor goes to a close friend, goes to a family member, has received two doses of vaccine or has suffered from COVID-19, should he or she be obliged to tell the nursing home that my vaccination passport and medical certificate are here, please let me in to the nursing home. We know that the mental health side, I think, has been extremely shaky for those who cannot visit, and even harder for those who wait in nursing homes for their loved ones to visit. There is no final decision, but at least I had the feeling, from the story of the chairman of the scientific council, that he felt that we should think more broadly, not just about restrictions. And now I'm gonna give you my opinion. Of course, there should be broader reflection and support. If we say that the vaccine works, and research shows that the vaccine works, especially after a second dose, and if we say that a person has been sick and cured, then why are we actually [limiting them]? If certain trust measures, such as wearing masks and hand hygiene, are still being carried out, I think we should in any case say that in this case people can go to nursing homes as a visitor. Now there's a second question. If there is a customer in a nursing home who has suffered from the disease himself or has received [vaccine] today, we know that the residents of nursing homes across Estonia are actually being vaccinated, not all but more and more, and soon the situation of nursing homes is such that people have received two doses, then I think it is entirely justified to ask whether a loved one who has not been vaccinated and has not had COVID-19, but the customer of the nursing home has received the vaccine, we promise to visit this client, a close family member, a friend. I think we should relax here, too. Yeah, I understand that maybe there's another client of the nursing home in the same room or in the same room who's refused the vaccine. But then, I think the nursing home should make sure there's some room where people can meet. I think it's extremely important. I focused on nursing homes in particular now, but I think that there are a lot of people in Estonia who want to go there on the one hand and who are expected by the people there on the other. So, yes, I think it should be much wider than just cross-border movement and also concern nursing homes, among other things.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U77	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! To continue with Signe Riisalo's questions, I became interested in the fact that, in my opinion, if I am not mistaken, it will be tomorrow's meeting of the leaders of the Member States of the European Union. How many good practices and experiences has Estonia gained from other Member States? We read that the situation varies greatly from country to country. In Germany, the number of people infected is increasing, Britain pointed out new mutations and they are moving around the world. With regard to good practice and experience, how good is cooperation between Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U79	Thank you. I can best assess this with my fellow Members, or in the Council format, and indeed, tomorrow evening, this video meeting in the Council format will be held again. I have, I think, a little more information. It is simply a closer relationship with both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs in terms of cooperation at European level. I can certainly say that this cooperation has gotten better and better. Do you share experience? Yeah, sharing experiences. Yesterday, in cooperation with the President of Lithuania and the Prime Minister of Latvia, we made our own appeal, which I also signed. This relates, for example, to the issue of vaccines in which the Commission has taken the lead. We know that supplies have not been the same as we all had in December. So I think that cooperation has been good, cooperation has improved, we share experience. I also know that, for example, Professor Irja Lutsar of the Scientific Advisory Board has said several times that he too participates in certain formats within the European Union, and of course has personal contacts. So we're working together on that. I think that, in the case of obtaining vaccines, too, it has still been the very right direction that the European Union has kept one here and has not started to negotiate in different ways. I guess then we'd have a harder situation at this latitude than it is at the moment, I'm pretty sure of it. Could cooperation, for example, when we talk about this new mutation, be even more intense? I think it can always be made tighter. But we see that, in the case of travel, in the case of isolation, in the case of testing, there are still certain differences, and I think these differences will remain. We take the fact that today, as a tourist in Estonia, we cannot go to all the Member States of the European Union, even if we agree to be quarantined or isolated. So I guess these approaches are a little different. But yes, tomorrow is also the main theme, of course, of the corona virus and COVID-19.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U80	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U81	Next, Signe Kivi asks and is answered by the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, you gave an overview of the measures taken to alleviate the situation caused by the corona crisis in the field of culture, including support for freelance artists. Let us call the emergency increase in the reserve for freelance artists in 2020 as an effective measure. However, the lack of health insurance is becoming increasingly evident. The Artists' Association proposal on freelance health insurance is such that one of the quick mitigating alternatives could be to extend the period of aggregation of social tax from the current one month to at least three months. This has also been discussed with other creative associations at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Do you support this proposal and what your proposals have been to supplement the system of social guarantees for freelance artists and what important decisions will be left on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U83	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Yes, social tax aggregation is one of the ways in which social guarantees can be taken into account in the case of freelancers. But this issue is complex and so far society has not had a very clear view of who is freelance. They're people of very different profiles, some of them do very well, fall into a hole only during a crisis, some of them are hard at all times. They are also distributed in very different areas. Now during the crisis, last year and at the beginning of this year, we have received a great many applications and reached out to these people, and we have identified a freelance profile, his main problems. Based on this experience, the Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, can develop a bill to create social guarantees. One of them is health insurance. In fact, this package also provides for pension insurance for the future. However, the need to increase the amount of continuous income and creative subsidies on an annual basis compared to what has been so-called the case analysis. This can be taken into account in the future. In addition, a separate study has been commissioned from Praxis, which will be completed by the beginning of this summer. In parallel, however, the preparation of an initiative, an amendment to the law, which is planned to be sent to the government by the end of the summer of this year as an initiative or a draft of the law, and on this basis, to move quickly, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, to an amendment to the law, which would create all guarantees for freelancers. At the same time, it is very important not to wait for this law, but to support people immediately, because it is the freelancers who are particularly vulnerable in this crisis. In Estonia, culture is relatively open, in 13 counties almost all [cultural institutions] are open, with a ceiling of 400 people in the hall, and freelancers can earn income there, both as technical service providers and as performers. Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa have been more closed. Last year, we really offered EUR 4.2 million to those freelancers who have been hit. From this year's crisis package, EUR 1.7 million has already been earmarked for the beginning of this year. If the crisis is to be prolonged, of course, more money must be applied for.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U84	Thank you. There are no more questions on this issue, I will stop looking at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U85	Next, Andres Sutt asks and is answered by Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U86	I'll start with my question a little further away. We have talked a lot about resolving the COVID crisis, health measures and restrictions in the Riigikogu Question Time, the committees and the large hall. We have also talked about economic support measures. My question looks a little further than this acute phase. If we look at what affects Estonia's economy and development most, trend number one is demographics. We know that our population is ageing. We actually need more investment in Estonia, and it is important for us to have enough hands to satisfy the demand of the labour market and to be able to keep up with the changed forms of work. If we look further, on investment, the most important are those investments that would increase the growth potential of the economy in the future. Rail Baltic is certainly one of those investments. My question to you is this: what can we still do to speed up the construction of Rail Baltic in the current economic phase so that we can make maximum use of the unused funds of the European Union during the end of the funding period?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U87	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. I'll start with the COVID hasn't missed Rail Baltic. That's exactly what he's been touching it. Why and how has he touched? Railway design is currently underway in Estonia, but since the designer is a Spanish company, it has been difficult for him to come to Estonia during the design work. Of course, the main job can be done at home, but you also need to go to nature from time to time. Worse still, there have been considerably greater restrictions in Spain than in Estonia and designers have not even been able to leave their home in Spain. Fortunately, today, the design process is such that much can be done on the computer, but unfortunately, any restrictions have left their mark on the process. One thing we have to do is try to get through this design process as soon as possible. We have meetings with the Estonian Rail Baltic leadership every two weeks to review the process. Let's see how this has been done, how fast and how the projects are moving, whether there are any backwards. New design schedules have been made and the execution of these graphs is monitored very closely. We all know that we had a deficit before, and now the COVID has left their mark. Today, however, we are in a position to be able to make use of the resources of this period when completing these graphs. Authorisation has already been requested from the European Union to extend the period of use of these funds. Understandably, here again is the cause of the same COVID crisis. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as Estonian employees related to Rail Baltic, will do everything in their power to comply with working schedules in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U88	Andres Sutt, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U89	Thank you for your answer. This only confirms the need for the rapid continuation of the Rail Baltic project under COVID conditions. Surely COVID has made all this work more complex, as you described in your reply. Now, Rail Baltic does not end on the Estonian border with Latvia. And my second question is how the project is progressing in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, so that we can use it once and for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U90	If you look at the country by country, Latvia is in the process of designing the bypass of Riga city centre and Riga. In the city centre of Riga, a railway station is under construction and the airport connection should be in tender in January 2021, i.e. within this month. From Riga to Estonia and [Lithuania] design contracts were concluded last March. Design is underway. The acquisition of land will start in Latvia this year. In Lithuania, land has been acquired from Kaunas towards Latvia, construction procurement is partly ongoing, design is also ongoing. If there was ever fear that a section on the Latvian side of Kaunas would be considered important in Lithuania, or how it would be moved forward, it must be said that today this paragraph has gone even further than in the direction of Kaunas and Kaunas. There's plans going on right now. The situation in Poland is that the Warsaw-Bialystok railway has been reconstructed in two lanes and from Bialystok to the north, i.e. some sections are being designed, but some sections also have construction. It must be said that if we have been to Poland and travelled on the roads there, the Poles must be given credit for how much and how they have contributed to their infrastructure. And it must also be said that Poland has also made a very serious contribution to the construction of Rail Baltic. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U91	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U92	Thank you. Dear Minister, The European Court of Auditors found that Rail Baltic projects are overly optimistic and superficial in terms of both traffic forecasts and forecasts of the modal shift of goods to rail. Who of the MKM officials is responsible for the accuracy of the cost-benefit analysis? And the second question here: who is the expert who has confirmed that there are no publicly stated errors in Rail Baltic's cost-benefit analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U93	Thank you. First of all, yes, Rail Baltic's cost-benefit analysis has been audited, but every cost-benefit analysis is time-changing. The current situation is certainly not the same as when this cost-benefit analysis was carried out. It must be said that the situation has certainly changed quite a bit in favour of Rail Baltic. However, the previous analysis has also been audited and has been found to be correct. But once again, today the situation has changed considerably, and given the climate objectives set in Europe, the European transport sector as a whole is facing a very, very big change in meeting these objectives. A very clear objective has been set across Europe to target goods on rail. I think that these changes in road transport are definitely coming, and they [should] even be without climate targets, because in fact we all know that European roads are overburdened. As the periphery of Estonia's Europe, there would be a huge problem in the future in the field of transport if we did not have a good rail connection to mainland Europe. So in the wind of all these changes, I think that without Rail Baltic, Estonia would be extremely complicated in the future, and all these changes have moved and will continue to move in the direction that Rail Baltic will not only become a more cost-effective solution in the future, but will also become the only possible solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U94	Thank you. I have an evil suspicion that since we have to shoot the hall call, unfortunately, today we will not be able to listen to any more questions. I will conclude on this issue. Thank you all for asking! Thank you, too, for the respondents. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U95	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 2nd working week Wednesday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. You can participate both in the hall and behind the screen. Is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? There are no drafts and no requests for information. Then the presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U96	81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U97	Let's get to the agenda. On the agenda, we have the first question of the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is possible to negotiate at third reading. Representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. Then we go to the vote. Should I call [people]? Let's call it in. So, honourable colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft law amending the Law on the Courts instituted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. In fact, the approval of this draft requires a majority of the membership. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U98	Just in case, let's wait a few seconds for everyone behind the remote screens to vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U99	We will take the second item on the agenda: Draft Act 299 on the amendment of the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Road Transport Act and related amendments to other laws. Let's start with the first reading and waitress here, Mr. Taavi Aasa, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has submitted a draft aimed at amending the Road Traffic Act, the Road Transport Act and other related laws. The purpose of the draft is to ensure the safety of vehicles registered in Estonia and used in traffic. To this end, the Minister shall be authorised to designate systems for use on vehicles which cannot or cannot be controlled during roadworthiness tests and the non-compliance of which may endanger the human or the environment. In particular, the draft is designed to ensure the safety of vehicles using compressed gas and liquefied gas as fuel. Therefore, in the future, such vehicles will have to undergo, in addition to roadworthiness tests, a regular technical check to check the condition of their fuel tanks. In the case of vehicles using compressed gas as a fuel, there is a risk of bursting their fuel tanks as the fuel is kept under very high pressure in the tank. It is therefore important to check that the tank does not, for example, have corrosion-related injuries which may reduce its strength. While the overall safety of vehicles is assessed in particular in the context of periodic roadworthiness tests, it is difficult to check the fuel tanks of natural gas vehicles during roadworthiness tests. For example, because many vehicles have their tanks covered and the engineer does not even get to them. Therefore, in consultation with the various parties, it was considered that roadworthiness testing was not an appropriate place to check the tanks of natural gas vehicles. This does not mean that roadworthiness testing centres may not provide this service if they are interested in providing such a service and are able to carry out checks in accordance with the requirements. It's just that this inspection can't be part of a roadworthiness test. It is therefore necessary to provide by law for the obligation to undergo additional technical checks on systems and parts thereof which cannot be checked during roadworthiness tests. Regular checks on the condition of natural gas tanks have also been sought by vehicle manufacturers who do not wish to sell natural gas-using vehicles to countries where the condition of the fuel tanks of these vehicles is not subsequently checked in use. It is therefore necessary that new vehicles that continue to consume natural gas in Estonia be supplied and that people have the assurance that the vehicle is safe. We plan the frequency of checks of vehicles consuming compressed gas as fuel for a maximum period of four years and the frequency of inspections of vehicles consuming liquefied natural gas for a maximum period of 10 years. In particular, the representatives of the vehicle brands who are already in control of the natural gas tanks in the course of maintenance have been interested in carrying out the inspection, but older vehicles are often no longer in service at the brand office, so their fuel tanks may be overlooked and therefore cars become dangerous on the road. This does not mean that only brand representation can carry out the checks. The control service may also be provided by other economic operators capable of doing so. I ask you to support the draft and the Commission's proposal to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U101	Thank you. Questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U102	Good manager and waitress! My question is, like, wider. You're the only member of the government who's come here to see us this week. If you look at it, everything else is out of [the day]. For example, the children of the corona era who are about to be born and the 400 [unemployed persons] who could receive this mother support, or education[sector] and research and development. But you've come here with your fuel tank bill, not in solidarity like other colleagues have taken it back. Please explain to us why this fuel tank thing is so important at this time of the COVID that you will come before us at any cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U103	Thank you. That date had been agreed earlier. There is no, I think, any reason to postpone the discussion of this topic in the Riigikogu. And I think that safety in traffic is a common concern for all of us and, no doubt, a sectoral commitment to my work.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U104	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U105	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We also addressed this in the Commission. Despite a quick week, have you had a little time to look and you know how to answer the question of what costs the average owner of the second-hand vehicle could now incur and where these checks will be carried out? Maybe you can open it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U106	Thank you. In particular, these inspections would be carried out by brand offices where the vehicles are used for maintenance. And as a result of the consultation [we were aware that], for example, we have one of the largest gas car importers, the message was that such a check could cost about EUR 50. Undoubtedly, since brand representation will certainly not be the only ones to control it in the future, this price may change, and in market conditions, I very much hope, towards a reduction. However, since these checks are to be carried out every four years, this cost is not very high. Let us set aside here, for example, the cost of roadworthiness tests, which is about EUR 35 to 40. But once again, the implementation of such a control system is very important for car manufacturers and for them to bring cars here to Estonia. And, of course, we want more gas powered cars to use biogas, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U107	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U108	Good manager! Good waitress! Since the gas tank is the most important theme of this week, perhaps it will be appropriate for the ambassadors to listen with joy if you could perhaps give us a little more detail about the characteristics of this gas tank and the possibility of corrosion, explosion, damage and perhaps death. A little wider, we've got plenty of time, and we're very interested this week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U109	Thank you. There are two types of gas tanks. There are those with compressed gas, and this compressed gas is under very high pressure: 200 bars. If this tank or system is not in order, the gas has such a property that it tends to come out of that tank or system, and if it does, then there may be an accident. I would like to give an example that one such accident has happened in Estonia. Luckily, people weren't hurt, but there's been an accident. And there's also a liquefied gas tank, where the gas is under somewhat less pressure. That's where it's supposed to be, not more than ten years from now. In the case of a high pressure tank with a pressure of up to 200 bar, the check would not be more than four years longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U110	Paul Woodland, please! He gave up. Then Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U111	Thank you. I am also interested that since the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and other things are not of interest to the current new coalition or temporary government, I wanted to ask you about statistics. You said there was an accident in Estonia. Against this background, I am interested in the fact that we have hundreds of other accidents in Estonia, but I have not heard that, because of one accident, any area is rushing to change the law. Doesn't that seem more like a substitute?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U112	First of all, I think one accident is too much, and if it can be prevented, I think that everything should be done to prevent it. But, as I said, the main reason is that car manufacturers want this kind of control, because there have been more accidents in other countries. And car manufacturers are watching very closely whether countries are doing something to prevent these accidents. If countries do nothing, car manufacturers will not be ready to deliver cars with gas appliances to such countries. This problem is not just Estonia's problem, but it is a problem in very many countries, including our neighbouring countries, also in Finland. [In these countries] is the exact same situation where a similar amendment is either prepared or already introduced. The problem is general. In order for new gas cars to be delivered to Estonia in the future, this is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U113	Kristen Michal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I thought in the Commission, and I still had the idea, up to the question of Henn Põllea, that we were dealing with gas safety, road safety and the safety of vehicle equipment in practical terms and we were discussing how to do it better. But right now, I feel like there's some kind of different liberal and national conservative view of the safety of the gas tank. Can you describe the difference to me, or is it just my feeling?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U115	Thank you. I rather think that some of the questions relate to the fact that there are not many drafts that have come before the Riigikogu this week. On this draft, too, it was discussed whether to discuss it today in the Riigikogu. I thought this was a bill that could still be discussed, because the date has been set, and I am ready to come and present it to the Riigikogu. And I think that although there have been no accidents in Estonia because of the gas equipment of the car, this is still an important issue of the draft, which deals with safety. I think that safety, road safety is one for everyone, regardless of the weather.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U116	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U117	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The bar is known to be a non-systemic unit of pressure, or 1 bar is equal to 100,000 pascals. 1 bar is approximately equal to the air pressure on the ground as well as the pressure of the water column 10 metres high. But the other thing is that there's also a CGS system where the bar expresses the pressure of a million dunes per square centimeter. Which unit of measurement do you mean the bar right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U118	Thank you. We have joined the European system of measurement, so it is what is in force in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U119	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U120	Thank you. Of course, I am deeply surprised by Kristen Michal's ability to idealize gas issues here. It's really amazing. I received a reply from the Minister that, above all, it was the car manufacturers who wanted them to [can] export these [cars] to other countries, including Estonia, and I was satisfied with that response. But, of course, extremely liberals, they have a completely unprecedented ability to screw everything up. Thank you. There was no real question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U121	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U122	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U123	Yeah, I can hear you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U124	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! That's my question. If you are following this bill to bring it into this hall because it is in the interests of car manufacturers to actually make this legislative amendment, then perhaps the burden that arises for people, we were also talking about these sums of money, so that the 50 euros could be what I say is that this one inspection fee would perhaps be paid by car manufacturers themselves and not put it on people?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U125	Thank you. Well, I wouldn't say it's only in the interests of car manufacturers. In fact, it is also in our interest that we are supplied with gas vehicles. Once again, gas-equipped cars can also use our domestic biogas. So it's actually in our interest to have these cars brought here. As regards the imposition of this remuneration on car manufacturers, I do not think it is reasonable to do so. Car manufacturers would not agree to this either. However, we also need to take into account that we want this service not only to be provided in brand offices, i.e. in companies related to car manufacturers, but that there are still more providers of these services in the free market, control providers. Why not also the roadworthiness test points where this capacity will be created in the future? So it's more like a car buyer. But as I said, this cost per year is not significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U126	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good answer! Listening to your report, I have a question. You mentioned that there has been an accident in Estonia, there have been more of them elsewhere. Here I have a question that was not on the agenda in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but perhaps this was a subject for you in the ministry or for car importers. Perhaps it is not the gas tank of the car that is at issue, but rather the composition of the gas and the quality of the gas. Did you talk about it in the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U128	Thank you. Undoubtedly, there can also be poor fuel, not only gas but also all types of motor fuel. But we have procedures to control it. And right now, really a weak link is how this gas is stored in the car, how technical equipment in the car handle this gas. Therefore, such a draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U129	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U130	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The national proverb of the Estonian people says that disaster does not come. Could possible car gas accidents fall into this same category?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U131	Thank you. I think there might be two kinds of accidents with car gas. There may be others that don't cry out when they come, but they may be when they come: if the car owner knows that his car has a faulty gas device. Such an accident has apparently come to light before.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U132	Thank you. No further questions. The co-rapporteur is Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Economic Commission. Is Kalvi Tough ready to co-report?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U133	Yeah! Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to you from this snowy Võrumaa. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on Monday, 11 January. And at the beginning of the meeting, I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission by consensus. It was proposed to put the draft on today's agenda, as well as by consensus, and the consensus also gave rise to the decision to close the first reading. In the Commission, the minister gave as good an overview as today in this Chamber. He was accompanied by Commission advisor Moonika Parksepp and traffic service chief specialist Sven Nurk, who also provided answers to our questions. Our questions in the Commission were still more of a result of the content of this draft law, and precisely in terms of implementation, of who exercises supervision. The surveillance is carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board. If the vehicle is detained, this control document shall also be checked. Also, in the case of cars not purchased here in Estonia but brought elsewhere, the Road Administration should send a notice to all those people who have these cars that this inspection must be carried out within two years. Amendments were also proposed which are not related to this particular obligation. The Moonika Parksepp said that it is planned to send a new complete text of the Traffic Act to the Riigikogu in the autumn and then we can already discuss all these traffic issues in more detail. So much for the Commission's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-01-20_U134	Thank you. There are no questions for the co-rapporteur. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to participate in the negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations either. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 299 be completed. As there are no other opinions, the first reading is closed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 3 February at 5.15 p.m. Thank you very much, everyone. The sitting is adjourned.
