ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our Thursday session. Before we check the presence, there's an opportunity to hand over drafts and inquiries. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of immigration in the European Union is like cancer. It has begun quietly and unnoticed in 1960. It has become one of the most serious problems of the European Union since the 1990s and has now become one of the most serious problems of the European Union. If you remember, in 2015, when massive illegal immigration took place, which divided Europe very strongly, we in the Baltics thought to a large extent that it was, and will be, a problem for southern Europe, although it was also perceived and perceived as Europe-wide. You will remember these serious debates on compulsory quotas, which are far from over in the European Union. Today, 2021, we have reached a situation where this problem directly affects our region, our neighbouring countries, and it does not have to be expected that it will leave Estonia untouched in the future. The Prime Minister has argued that there are some risk analyses and risk assessments from security authorities, which say that Estonia does not have any serious risk and threat to illegal migration in the near future, and therefore there is no need to speed up the process of establishing the border. The fraction of Fatherland is not so blue-eyed and naive. Our neighbour, Russia, a few years ago, organised illegal immigration overnight on the Russian-Norwegian border. If we are to develop a single Baltic security area in solidarity, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland have recognised this threat and everyone has started to build their physical facilities in an accelerated fashion. At this point, we will hand over a proposal to the Government of the Republic as a decision of the Riigikogu to start it and plan the corresponding funds into the budget, so that physical barriers to the border can be built in Estonia, like our neighbouring countries, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U3	Thank you. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu and the Management Board decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U4	56 delegates were registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U5	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda, which is the debate on the national issue of "The situation in teaching the Estonian language in schools in other languages (through the experience of the problem committee on the development of Estonian language). In the debate on a crucial national issue, we have such a procedure that there are first presentations, each report includes a round of questions and answers. When the reports are over, there will be negotiations. The order and time frame of today's presentations is that the first presentation is a presentation by Tiiu Kuurme, the docent of education sciences at the Tallinn University Institute of Education, with a duration of 20 minutes and later questions and answers as well as 20 minutes. The second presentation is a presentation by Birute Klaas-Lang, Professor of Estonian at the University of Tartu, as well as 20 minutes and questions-answers for up to 20 minutes. And the third is the presentation by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Trouble Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning, 20 minutes and questions-answers for 40 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two questions to any rapporteur. But I would point out that you have to fit in the time frame for this, or who can't ask in 20 minutes, you can't get in this round. After the presentations there will be negotiations where all members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups will be able to speak. The debate shall end without a decision being taken. And I would add that the Committee on the Development of Estonian Languages proposes to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock if we do not get one half o'clock. There you go. But let's start with the reports. Riigikogu speech chair Tiiu Kuurme, please. Maybe you can set up your own microphones.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U6	Honourable forum! I am Tiiu Kuurme, Associate Professor of Educational Sciences at Tallinn University, and my field has never been integration issues. But since my field is general education, it brings together many other professional areas. So maybe I can interpret something here from my point of view. First of all, a few words, a look back to the 1950s, my childhood, when I lived on the Raad near the airport, surrounded by the Russian army. We had a school where the Russians studied in the morning, Estonians studying in the evening. School generations had been sent out of fears, fighting and Russian lessons that we had and had for a very long time, four to five hours a week throughout school, passed so that I could never speak Russian. And so did my children, who grew up in Lasnamäe, also they learned very massive amounts of Russian, but they did not learn Russian, and in high school they changed the noun and verb. This leads to the conclusion that language learning is not just technology. Its background is very deep and it is also a matter of collective experience, you could also say in collective trauma experiences, also in attitudes and, of course, in the default home tradition. Today we can be said to have had a great success story. We have no confrontation between the Russian and Estonian communities. Many Russian people want to learn Estonian and now more and more Russian parents want to put their children in an Estonian-language school. At the same time, the Estonians still have a sense of danger for their survival. The reality from which we're surrounded, I don't think it's necessary to repeat what it's all about. The concern is the constant status quo in the knowledge of the Estonian language, which means that the Estonian language is not as well known as it could be. I would also like to say that the preservation and prosperity of language and culture is not only a result of external conditions, but also of the deep inner desire of those born into that culture, the spirit forces, emotional components, pride and love for their language, and the perception of the language as the deeper content of their own self. It is clear that we cannot expect those who come to live here to feel the Estonian language in the same way as we do. I will address the RITA-migration project and the models of this single Estonian school as a warning that in a relatively critical key. On the other hand, their critical reflections in media articles, although there are also many positive reflections. It's that other side, maybe it's worth a little more focus. I would like to refer to the circumstances that are perceived by the public, not by everyone, but by quite a few, as a threat to our national self-being. [Wish is] that good and efficient and thoughtful solutions should not be taken prematurely. You could first say that the RITA migration project was sent out of goodwill. It states that this common Estonian school, which is spoken of there, is defined as a school where students with different language and cultural backgrounds study together, who are guaranteed the Estonian-language education based on modern learning, and the development of state identity is supported in order to feel well in this society. Next, however, the project also recognises that communities remain separate and that the huge money that has been invested in teaching the Estonian language has not borne just as much fruit. The low level of Estonian language proficiency of graduates of Russian-language schools is justified by the lack of motivation of students, the lack of Estonian-language teachers and the poor language skills of teachers. The same is true of Estonian children. They have little motive for learning Russian. And yesterday I heard from my Estonian student from Narva that he was communicating with Russian colleagues in English. Reality can be that way. The objectives are set in RITA migration so that students with different language and cultural backgrounds can study together in Estonian school. Such an environment should be created that different cultures and languages must be valued in multilingual schools. They are viewed as wealth, not as a problem. And the speech is a new concept of 'cultural identity', which means that everyone's cultural specificity is noticed and taken into account by both teachers and fellow learners. In short, cultural diversity is regarded as a resource for the learning environment. Obviously, these views are known and more concrete measures here would be to change the school culture and that learning-learning would involve everyone's home culture. Also, the whole school environment is oriented towards multiculturalism. Now, if you look at the five models proposed in this project, there are models for regions where most people are Russian and for regions where more than 90% of the population are Estonian. And there, they are also actually obliged to follow the principles of multiculturalism in the same way as the schools throughout the Estonian student population, i.e. to take all these same measures into their schools. This is where the question arose as to the prospects of Estonia in the RITA migration project. As an objective, it is clearly stated that it is a citizen's nationality, it is a common national identity. And the diversity of culture and citizenship is also opened up more widely in the project, with cultural nations relying on heritage, language, territory and so on, citizenships relying on historical territory, laws, institutions. It's a state identity. And here we are no longer talking about this emotional and psychological in-depth attitude and spiritual power. As we read this report, the question arises where, in this paradisaic description, where Estonia will arrive as soon as these measures are implemented, Estonian children and culture will remain. And indeed, in this long text, 120 pages, I did not find the word 'national culture', but 'different cultures', and no reference to the Preamble of the Constitution. And what is this nation? One and the other has been said about the nation, but I would point out that one of the main and important components is national self-consciousness. The fact that the nation calls itself and the nation demarcates itself and the nations create countries. It's just that nations don't create countries. It is not only the nation that is born, it is raised, it is learned to be a member of the nation, it is linked by the sense of belonging. And here's the question of whether only the citizen identity promoted by this RITA-migration project will keep us alive as a cultural nation, or whether it will give us the same self-consciousness, the same feeling and the same uniqueness that has made us a nation. As we read more about this project, we already meet with quite a number of orders and arrangements that can wait in front of the Estonian school. First, the Estonian school should pay attention to increasing openness and tolerance and awareness of multiculturalism. And there was a complaint to the Estonian school about his closure. But what's the reason for the closure, that analysis didn't come up with it. When you think about the closure, it was already common to ancient people who built fortresses and fortresses. The reason was self - defense, a sense of vulnerability, and a desire to preserve what belongs to itself. The closure occurs in hostile surroundings. In a friendly environment, it is very easy to be open to everything with a smile. And here, more specifically, schools with Estonian language of instruction should re-evaluate and change their previous school's cultural perceptions and attitudes. In short, this tradition and these deeply ingrained practices and rituals, which some have appreciated when attending conferences abroad, need to be reorganized. And it is as if the national identity, self-determination, socialisation, etc. of other pupils with a native language, which must also be dealt with by schools where most students are Estonians, comes to the fore. It already sounds tougher that educational tools and teaching literature should also go to the service of multiculturalism. Again, I would like to ask: Estonian, but Estonian, but the future of Estonian? The report does not actually reflect the great differences and history of Estonian and Russian culture, as well as the welfare of Estonian children, their identity, the liking of Estonian children to school. And what the critics of this report have paid attention to is that we have not found such studies. I'm very sorry, I haven't had time to look, but we already have plenty of schools in Estonia where the principles of the School of Unity work in many ways. I'd like to know how children feel in these schools. And there's a lot of school-related issues. How are they expressed in such schools? Question: where are the studies? From time to time, pedagogy has been such that experiments are carried out before any thing is introduced into large numbers. The experiment is a very careful and experimental study. At the moment, in the case of this RITA-migration project, at least I, in my limited knowledge, do not know about these studies. And even though there were really six schools under observation, it was not in the plan that what was really happening there and how was the feeling of those who were there, but in the aspects that interested the project writers. And, unfortunately, from this point of view, such a conclusion occurred to quite a large number of people in Estonia, that Estonian children and their parents are like material for a grand experiment, and here there is a silent nation as a value. A little [data] for comparison with other countries. I rely on the material I got from this very house based on the work done by analysts. I'm trying to generalise what this material is talking about. It seems that, in terms of the ratio of persons with nationality, we are third on the list of countries of the European Union. Only Latvia and Cyprus have fewer persons of nationality. However, in the same Lithuania, 99.2% of the population have citizenship and 90% of the people speak the official language. We are saddened by these figures, and even in Latvia, the situation is somewhat better on the basis of this material. In short, here is a very serious story about what our reality has now become. A little from the schools, too. The picture is that in Estonia, schools with Estonian language of instruction are very overwhelming. Only Russian-language schools have 19 left, with 49 in both languages. At the same time, once again, I would like to know what is going on in those Estonian-language schools where there are Russian students. And it is very welcome that there are so many other languages in schools with Estonian language of instruction that they can manage their being there, help them, teach them. If this figure gets bigger, this limit is thought to be 10%, if there are already more languages, then school life, school culture, teaching will all become problematic. But the number of Russian-speaking children is now growing very rapidly in areas with high population density, especially in Tallinn kindergartens. It seemed very welcome before, but right now it's causing a lot of problems for practitioners. A little dive for Finland. In Finland, the number of immigrant children is 8% of the total number of students, we have 30. Katrin Kurmiste, a writer and translator, writes that Finland is not a mixed school where multiple identities are created. The Finnish school is still a Finnish national school where the children of immigrants also study. But before going to Finnish school, they receive 900 hours of preparatory education in Finnish. Also, unlike Estonia, Finland has the possibility to use a large number of support specialists in schools where children are taught in other languages. And there are 8% of Finnish students. Thinking in the spirit of the Constitution, we can conclude that our situation is unique and sensitive. We cannot and must not copy models from other countries. We must ourselves find the best that preserves and protects our values. Estonians need to find their own solutions, which are centred on the preservation of Estonianhood. And the reality is that we are between the pressures of the two great languages and our attitude, our inner attitude towards the great languages, is still often submissive. Further, a brief analysis of the articles, the content of which responds to the idea of a single Estonian school. I chose articles where the response was critical and dangerous. Most of these articles have been published by Postimees, both in favour and against, and by other sources [have published] articles speaking in favour of a single Estonian school. One longer critical and very emotional writing also appeared on the ERR portal. The authors include teachers-practicians, scientists, cultural researchers, parents, journalists. The response is united by an existential concern as to whether we will survive as a nation and as a language, what our children's education will be like, what our language will be like in the future. By qualitatively analysing the content of these articles, the distinctions, the following major topics could be said: the role of language in human life, human development, world feeling; language and learning; Estonian and multiple identity; Estonian children and teachers. Finally, the question of whether we remain a nation or whether we remain just one dying community among others. These are the motives of these articles. The first thematic group. Speaking of the role of language in human life and human development, we have a responsibility to mankind in general because linguistic and cultural diversity is the power and wealth of all mankind. Each language is also a way of understanding the world. I would recall Martin Heidegger's famous saying: "Language is the house of being. " Several thinkers, especially Uku Masing, have written about the speciality of the Finno-Ugric way of understanding. Language is an intimate area, a means of knowledge, an understanding of the world, and a meeting is personal, social and sacral. The development of the language and the spiritual development of the infant are very close and it has been pointed out that every other language has its own homeland, and the Estonian does not have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U7	I can give you three more minutes, but that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U8	Then three minutes. Parents'concern is the simplified language that comes with a large number of foreigners. Here one practitioner says, it has become the case that the teacher in Mustamäe Estonian kindergarten has been told: "Speak a simplified language so that others can understand. " In kindergartens, the simplified Estonian language is beginning to take over. Spiritual development, however, depends on the linguistic wealth in which the child grows. And so in the future, impoverished language and the inability of new generations to read more demanding texts, not to mention their creation. Speaking of language and learning success, all writers and speakers, practitioners claim that learning success falls in an environment where not everyone understands what is happening in class and what is being spoken about. There are references to what one or the other says about it. The main argument is that high-quality teaching is possible and integration is successful if the number of other languages in the children's group does not exceed 10%. There is also a reference to one scientific article where it is also proved in the Riigikogu Working Papers that early education should take place predominantly in the mother tongue and be accompanied by [should] very good instruction in the second language. Linguistician, scientist Urve Läänemets asks: why hasn't the question been raised: in what Estonian language does the teacher speak in the classroom if half of the students do not master it? How simple and simplified will these explanations become? And why should Estonian children miss out on good Estonian language and terminologically correct explanations? Here's the interview, September 11th. The headmaster of the school of Kiviõli, with a very large number of Russian-speaking [students], speaks of how much trouble they are in, since children in approximating languages are also brought to the seventh and two-th grade. The result is a teacher's gray face, no longer able to cope. Money is promised, but there is no plan that can be made with this money. There are several ideas about the dangers of multiple identities. All in all, it increases the vulnerability of culture and statehood. Learning content changes, we rewrite our history. Just as Putin rewrites Russia's history incessantly, so we go after it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U9	We've got half a minute left.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U10	In short, yes, Estonian children and teachers. If you have the material, pay attention to what practitioners say about their work. If you ask why we have such a great drought of teachers, the main reason is the burden on teachers. And the current idea of moving Russian-speaking and many Estonian schools, [may lead to] leaving the last teachers. The Estonian teacher is silent, patient, obedient, but she goes away when she is very ill. Thank you for listening. And the rest, I understand, you have access to the tables there, and there are solutions that are proposed by both the authors of the articles and practitioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U11	Thank you very much. Surely you can also highlight these solutions in the round of questions and answers. And now we're going to ask questions and answers. We also have 20 minutes to do this. Peter Ernits is the first to sign up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U12	Good manager! Good waitress! Thank you very much. Such a nice breath of fresh air in our slightly dimming hall. Mr Kersna and I have been discussing this issue for a while, and a bit of a crippled feeling. It has been said recently that the Estonian Constitution should start to be revised a little. But we have such a sentence in the preamble that the unwavering faith and unwavering will to insure and develop the country... how exactly was it? ... which must ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages. In the light of this RITA migration, how do you feel about correcting this paragraph in the preamble to the Constitution? I've read this report, too, and it's kind of scary. Do you think that's the basis for a bigger 'action'?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U13	Since RITA migration provides that Estonians are only one community among other equal communities here in Estonia and not the indigenous people and not the nation with their own culture, a unique culture, it is unfortunate that following this report will lead to this once. Depends on whether the subsequent decision-makers have the power of mind to prevent it, as well as the responsibility to the planet and to mankind, so that our people can enrich mankind as a whole with their language and culture. So it's a very big responsibility, actually. I very much hope that one report will not end with such fatal consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U14	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U15	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear waitress, I'm sorry you didn't come up with the solutions in your presentation, but they're on our desk as slides of your report. And one of the solutions you offer is that we do not allow Russian children of the Estonian school who do not know enough Estonian to learn. Well, it's not the solution that we don't allow them to go to school. The question is, where will they learn? Are we going to deny them any education at all, or are we going to leave them to some secorised schools somewhere outside the Estonian education system and learn how to do it, as long as they don't mix with Estonian children? What is your recipe and your solution to this question? Because, in my opinion, the fact that we simply close the doors in front of the Russian children is not the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U16	That's not the way we close the doors. Our success story is that there has been such a dialogue and that is it. The solution would be good preparation for Russian children before they go to Estonian school. Because, according to the interns, it is the Russian children who are particularly affected in these mixed schools who do not speak enough language. And here you have to line up according to the Finns. Indeed, intensive prior language training, Finns have 900 language lessons. Why not also consider the good proposal that was in this report, but linked to vocational schools, in order to propose a year's break for studying the Estonian language for those Russian children who wish to go to Estonian school. But for real young children [suitable] an intense immersion. The child learns quickly, willingly and in a completely different way than the bigger child learns the language. But the immersion again is not that we put children in Estonian kindergarten, Estonian children teach Estonian to Russian children. The critic Triin Teramäe, who has created the group "Estonian School is the home of the Estonian language," has appointed child labour, which is prohibited by UN laws. In short, there is a great need to think about how we organise this language training. And this must happen before these children go among Estonian children. Of course, the doors of the Estonian school must remain open for Russian children, but with sufficient language skills.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U17	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U18	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this critical view of our language policy. But I actually wanted to talk exactly the same way about the [existing] solutions here in the slides that you have not reached so far. You have highlighted various threats that may be, such as the impoverished Estonian language of Estonian children or, for example, that children of different nationalities will communicate with each other in a third language. Those are the ways of danger. It has also been well pointed out in the solutions that it is very important to bring parents to the knowledge that the Estonian language is not taught in Estonian, but in Estonian. It's very important. That is why I ask: can we still create conditions for children in other languages to learn Estonian in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U19	Here again, I am no expert in this [area]; here, language tacticians have to resolve this issue. Surely this issue can be resolved. Urve Läänemets, for example, knows that there are many very effective methods of teaching languages to children of different ages. The critics here point out, as well as the authors of RITA migration, that the current teaching of Estonian in Russian schools, Russian environments, is outdated, ineffective and uninteresting. We should start there and update it. Here we could once again turn to our good northern neighbour, Finland, to see how you do it, to teach, maybe we can do it. In short, these are linguistic issues and can be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U20	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable associate professor! My question concerns the objectives of RITA migration. You will see as the final goal that students with different language and/or cultural backgrounds will learn in each Estonian school, who will be guaranteed the mostly Estonian-language learning based on the modern principles of learning. For me, the word'mainly' has undefined legal clarity, say, meaning, because I do not understand it. So where are these limits or parameters, in which case is it mainly applied in Estonian? And another thing: What are the factors that can affect it mainly in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U22	That is a very well-founded question. This paragraph of the text comes from the RITA-migration report and indeed there is the word'mainly'. And there is something else: you must apply to have up to 80% of children in Estonian and 20% of children in other cultures in each school. It's not 10% anymore, it's 20%. When we read this report, we also meet the ideas of bilingual schools and the idea that there should be integration, that Estonian children should equally integrate with these other cultures and embrace these agendas. Of course, the emotional response is such that we deny our history, our suffering, our collective traumas and rewrite history to be pleasant and acceptable to other languages, and such ideas are there. So if you count this report as a whole, then what is the background of the word'mainly' will also be opened.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U23	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I was very, very surprised by your statement, as if other language-speaking children or Russian-speaking children were pulling down the language skills of Estonian children at Estonian school. I have two children. My girlfriend's class includes four children from Russian-speaking families and three in her son's class. I want to tell you that they set an example for my children and for many children, because they are very successful learners. Their family has decided that they want to be part of Estonian culture. And I'm saying that their state in that class actually refreshes and broadens the world view of my children. I want to tell you that I have also been to the Lasnamäe region a great deal. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry! I would very much like you to find further examples in your speech that there are also very positive success stories.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U25	My positive examples are that I am a lecturer and I have always had young Russian-speaking groups. And I have a very good impression of these Russian-speaking youths. This spring, a young person with an absolutely good Estonian language did a master's thesis in comparison with the lifestyles of Estonian and Russian students. It turned out that Estonians are ranked 12th among the 31 values for Estonians, but 25th for children of Russian nationality. There is nothing wrong with that, and there is nothing surprising about that. But here I would say again that the question is about the language skills of these Russian-speaking children, whether the teacher can do his work in a good, beautiful, rich Estonian language, or whether he must devote his strength and special attention to the Russian-speaking children. And those practitioners whose speeches are being interrupted are struggling with the coming of those in other languages who do not speak [Estonian] language, and this makes the work of the teacher very difficult and difficult. In fact, I like other nations subjectively. They'll refresh us, bring us a new bloodstream. Not to be discriminatory at all, but this is where the preservation of our language and culture must be brought together, and then that other nations really belong to us, preserving their identity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U26	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U27	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, I certainly share your concern about the preservation of the Estonian language and culture, but I am surprised that you first see as only one model in the RITA migration project. In fact, scientists proposed five different models, and they all have different ways of reaching an Estonian-language school. And second of all, I'm surprised that you're saying that money is going to be allocated, but you don't know what to do with it. We are actually publishing a budget today, 5 million for the transition to Estonian-language school, and there are very definite measures that are foreseen, although, say, implementation will come after the Commission has made its decisions. But by the Reform Party, for example, let's say, the measure that is currently being used to support the teaching of Estonian in these schools, where more than 10% of children already have Russian or other language backgrounds, is exactly the same measure as you mean: helping to teach better Estonian or a professional Estonian teacher in a school in other languages. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And my question, if I may add to that, is it not that the Estonian people will actually become stronger than this, that the Estonian culture will last stronger than the Estonian language skills will come, what does the Estonian language development plan foresee? It also has to do with the identity of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U28	To answer the last question, I fully agree with that. Yeah, we're getting stronger with it. We become stronger when we apply these principles without endangering ourselves and our existence. And this statement that it does not know what to do with the money, this claim comes from practitioners, teachers, "frontline workers" who are facing the situation, struggling and unable to cope with it, in this case, from the director of the Kiviõli school and also from one of Lasnamäe's now mixed-language school directors. And if very specific measures and smart applications are envisaged, then we can be very hopeful about the future, then these teachers should no longer be concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U29	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U30	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I thank you very much for this presentation, because it certainly echoed very gratefully in the hearts of all the people who sit in this Chamber and listen to us, in the hearts of those people who care about the preservation of the Estonian people, the language and culture over the ages, as stated in our constitution, and the ideal of the nation state. And thank you for swimming against the current like this. I understand that the talk you were saying made a lot of people shake their heads around here. But my question is, do you see, as a practitioner, that we still have hope or that the aggression of the ritamen with their educational ideologies is so prevalent that the formation of our national identity may be beyond the ideologies of state identity development. I'm sorry to say this, but that's what I think it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U31	When you read this project, it was state identity that was at the forefront. And the spokespersons for this project, Marek Tamm specifically, have also published in the media what is meant by this country identity. Critics of these positions once again express that statehood is conceivable in the case of the strength and preservation of national identity, so that they should not be separated in this way. And indeed from those who have come here, they cannot be required to acquire the national identity here, just as perhaps Estonians in other countries do not acquire the national identity there. If they have a state identity here, it's very good. But the question is that there is too little talk in this project about Estonian children, Estonians, ethnicity, the Preambler of the Constitution. Or it's not really what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U32	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U33	Thank you very much. I would also like to begin by congratulating such a critical analysis. After all, we have had an enormous number of beautiful slogans in this integration and language learning, but the analysis of the activities so far has been enormously limited and not enough results. There are known bilingual core schools with no more than 50% of both languages in Lithuania, Poland, Germany, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. I understand that there are no studies on how these students cope there, what are the results of these PISA tests, etc. And now, ugly little time left, I ask again, do I understand that your single general conclusion is that the Estonian-Russian mixed school is an avantyristic undertaking in its current state.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U34	Can you repeat the last sentence? [[Jaak White will specify the floor.]] Well, that's how I figure these mixed schools are, but we don't know what's going on. They are not reflected [where]; their lives are not reflected. The Teacher's page rarely touches anything, and then it also touches it in a rhetorical key. In my knowledge, there are no proper qualitative studies carried out in the heads and souls of the people who study there and the organisation of school life, the culture of the school. I would like to say at this point because I have the possibility that I learned three days ago that we will no longer receive a cent of research money from the University of Tallinn, neither from the Institute's Research Fund nor from the University's Research Fund, because the university is so poor and has fallen into a financial hole, and there will be major cuts in a multi-dimensional way. And maybe one of the most difficult things in Estonia is getting research money, so it seems right now. But if this is a matter of national importance, these Russian-Estonian mixed schools and everything that concerns it, it would ask for the money to be found for these studies to investigate exactly what is happening on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U35	Thank you. We have actually broken the time for both the report and the questions, so let's finish the round of questions and answers here. Thank you very much, Tiiu Kurume. I invite Professor of Estonian Language at the University of Tartu, Birute Klaas-Lang, to attend the next presentation. The time of the report is 20 minutes and the answer to the questions and answers are also 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U36	Honourable Riigikogu! First of all, thank you very much for this opportunity to perform before you. Thank you very much to the Special Committee on Estonian Language Learning, who has set up this important topic and has been working on it for several years! And indeed, I will try to speak in my presentation, as I was also offered the subject of the presentation, rather than the preparation of teachers, but in a slightly broader context. I use the experience of my faculty here, the experience of my scientist, but I also use my personal experience, from a trilingual family, raised in a trilingual environment, went to Estonian school, graduated from Estonian school, graduated from an Estonian-language university, obtained knowledge from other parts of the world, worked for eight years at the University of Helsinki as a lecturer in the Estonian language and as a visiting professor of Estonian. My two little children went to a Finnish school for four years, did quite well. So I also bring my personal experience and experience from school visits in Estonia, Finland, Lithuania, Latvia, and also from what I have studied in these schools. Since I was also asked to speak very briefly about the preparation of teachers in the so-called time dynamics, I look at how it interacts with what was at the State University of Tartu and is at the University of Tartu, [what is] the state of play as the second language of Estonian, as the foreign language of Estonian in the preparation of teachers, as well as the expectations and solutions of developing the preparation of Estonian language teachers. I will raise three important questions, all of which will be in question, what kind of teacher will our school need in the future, because we still have to look ahead in time. We have to live not yesterday, not the day before yesterday, but we have to live so that we can move on to tomorrow. Therefore, do we train teachers as a second language of Estonian for Russian schools? Do we train teachers as a second language of Estonian for an Estonian-language school? Do we train language teachers with additional competences for Estonian and/or Russian schools? I also propose amendments concerning the content and organisation of teacher training, which also require cooperation at national level. You can see these amendments very well on the website of the Special Committee on Language Learning, as they are also beautifully written there. Since I graduated from university last millennium, like so many of you here, this qualification I received is one that was very common at the time. Besides the specialty, the teacher's preparation was given, i.e. my specialty is an Estonian philologist, a teacher of Estonian language and literature. The total study period was five years and pedagogical subjects began in the fourth year of study. In the 1990s, Estonia regained independence, the teacher's preparation was also such that there was first a bachelor's degree and then there was a separate teacher's training period. And for the last 18 years, I'd say, like in Bologna, we have a three-year undergraduate and a two-year master's degree. This means that teacher training has, in essence, remained unchanged in its volume and has remained unchanged in that regard, that only pedagogical knowledge is not sufficient to prepare the teacher. Teachers, graduates, also need to have a wealth of material knowledge and, when we talk about a language teacher, should also have a linguistic background in basic knowledge in order not only to simply talk to students but also to explain to them what has come from. As in the preparation of other teachers, as in the preparation of teachers in the second language of the Estonian language, didactics, or how to teach, play a very important role. Of course, also general pedagogical preparation, but it is also very important to have practice, so-called finger recognition, that what this school is and how it works at school. But I think the teacher must also have a wide circle of eyes, so the university offers opportunities in addition to the 200 required [issue points]. At least the University of Tartu requires no extra tax on those who want to learn more. If there are 200 credits in the curriculum, you can always learn more. And actually, it's not just the teacher's training, it's the university's school where the young teacher gets a mentor. A mentor teacher at school supports a young teacher during the year. And let's not forget refresher training, refresher training. In my opinion, as for every profession, for every profession, a teacher learns all his life. What is the state of preparation for teachers is presented on this slide. Since 2015, our Institute has a teacher's specialty as a foreign language in the Master's degree programme of Estonian Language and Literature Teacher. This means that in 2015 we actually started this direction in teacher training, that a mother tongue teacher must also have certain competences and experience to cope with in a class where there are speakers of other mother tongues. In addition, we offer the competence of E2 to learners in the field of teaching in the mother tongue. E2 is Estonian as a second language. And it has proved very popular that a foreign language teacher's Master's degree programme, as we also have an additional teacher's specialty as a foreign language in Estonian there, such as German or English teachers take quite a lot of this extra speciality as a second language in Estonian as a teacher, as a foreign language teacher. In the last ten years, we have sent 70 graduates to schools. I am not going to judge here whether it is a lot or not, it is simply this way: 70 teachers, a teacher with either main or additional specialty as a foreign language in Estonian. This slide has some historical background. Why am I presenting this? Just to show you how long it's going to be, how we're going to move in that direction to give all our young people the same powers to move forward in life. When, in 1993, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act defined that in 2000 the transition to study in Estonian in Russian was to begin in schools with a language of instruction, I would like to draw the attention of highly respected MPs to the fact that in 1993 it was not precisely defined whether it had to start in upper secondary school or in primary school. Evidently, those who did so realized that there was a need for clarification. In 1997, the deadline for the changeover was changed and set for 2007. Maybe 10 years of take-off in order to be able to switch to a part-time study in Estonian. And it was defined that it only takes place in upper secondary school and is gradual. So it was held that 2007-2010 was added to one of the subjects taught in Estonian per year. And since 2011, we have had at least 60% of the volume of compulsory education in Estonian at upper secondary school. But in primary school, which is the only compulsory level of education, the language of instruction is the local government's choice. This means that when the local government decides, it can be a Russian language of instruction. And in the Russian language of instruction, you can teach in full, that's right. Here the previous presentation drew attention to the Latvian model and to the fact that the situation in Latvia, unfortunately, is already better with national language skills than it is in Estonia. Maybe the reasons lie here on this slide. In fact, even in Latvia in 1995, when this new educational law was adopted, it was defined right from the beginning that integrated learning of subjects and languages, or the teaching of subjects in the national language, is already taking place in a basic school. And so the teaching of two subjects was immediately started in Latvian at the grade of primary school and in classes 10 to 12 at the teaching of three subjects in Latvian. In 2004, much earlier than the Estonian school, the Estonian gymnasium, the Latvian gymnasium is 60 years old: 40 years old, so 60% of the subjects, courses are in Latvian and 40% are in Russian. And the result is now that, in fact, already a few years ago, but at the latest from the previous academic year, the Latvian education system is such that 1. There are three models of bilingual education in the classroom, let's say, even in Russian comprehensive school there are models of bilingual education in the first grade, which leads to teaching in practically Latvian from the seventh grade in all schools, allowing studies to be conducted in Latvian throughout the upper secondary school. I myself have visited a very prestigious school in Riga, namely Riga's classic high school. It is a Russian school or a former Russian school where all the studies are in Latvian and where there is no problem with what is the learner's home language. Both Latvian-speaking children and Russian-speaking children will study there. And all 9th and 12th graders have national exams in Latvian. I'm sure you're all active news watchers. One of my favorite reporters is Ragnar Kond, who regularly interviews in Latvia with interesting scarf and hat patterns. I've been following very closely who he's interviewing. He makes them in Latvian and everyone he does interviews with, there are a lot of Russian names, they speak very well Latvian. After all, the Estonian language development plan, which passed the reading here in the Riigikogu, has defined that by 2035, there are 14 years until then, teaching takes place in the Estonian language in schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local authorities. So what's the status now? Why is this topic still on the table, why is it so important? Because we don't give our young people equal opportunities. And, unfortunately, the situation in the last two years, and it's just in this pandemic period that it's gotten worse. Namely, here on this slide data is the results of the state exams in 2020 and 2021 as the second language of Estonian. You can see it. And frankly, I'm very sad about our young people. Young people graduating from upper secondary school who are not really ready to study further in Estonian and who are not ready to find work elsewhere besides their Russian-language bubble. In fact, the average score that was at the E2 exam in 2020 was 67.8 points, which has now fallen significantly to 63.5 points. And the B2 level, which is the middle level, the good strong middle level, which would actually allow us to move on to the Estonian-language university, was 70% last year; this year, a few 60% of these young people are ready to study in Estonian. So I'm going to repeat the question: what do we do now? There was also talk of preparation for school and early childhood education. Since 2009, in fact, all kindergartens with Russian language are required to teach Estonian from the age of four. This means that in all kindergartens, basic knowledge is already provided in Estonian. And in Estonian-language kindergartens there is also an increase in the proportion of children with different mother tongues. If 2014 was 19%, then in 2019 9200 children with Russian native language went to kindergarten, almost 50% of them are studying in a language immersion or in an Estonian-language kindergarten. Perhaps half of children with Russian native language study either in immersion groups or even in Estonian-language kindergarten. And here's the question, but then what? Where will the baby go when he has learned Estonian in that kindergarten? Of course, there are choices, but about 50% of those who participate in the immersion will continue their studies at the Estonian-language school or in the immersion class. Hence my question: why not 100%, do they not have the opportunity to do so? Indeed, the language of instruction for students with different native languages in primary school is that 70% study in Russian schools, the rest in Estonian [schools] or language immersion classes and a very small part in English. It has already been pointed out here that Russian-speaking children are in many Estonian-speaking schools. Consequently, this is an issue that needs to be addressed. Here are now the schools in Tallinn, where children with the most Russian native language are studying in Estonian at primary school, as well as language immersion classes. There are very different schools here. There are indeed Russian-language schools with a language bath class, but there are 165 children with a Russian-language language who also need special education and help in the language bath in Lasnamäe, for example, which is the largest Estonian-language school in Lasnamäe. But there are also, as you can see, purely Estonian schools on the list, where there are more and more Russian-speaking children. At the end of last year, I received a letter with literally cries for help: an Estonian-language school is waiting for help. I quote: "There have been students in other languages (This is a school in Harjumaa. B. K-L.) was also part of the school in previous years, but there has been a surge in the number of students in other languages in 2021. In the first classes alone, there are about 30 other language learners who need additional support and a special approach. " And here are the proposals made by the University of Tartu to the special committee of the Estonian language of the Riigikogu on 5 March 2020, which would support a student with a different native language from the Estonian language at the Estonian-language school, and would also enhance the teaching of Estonian as a second language in a foreign-language school. It must still be stressed once again that these proposals are based on the current state of play, today's situation, where we have a separate Estonian-language and Russian-language primary school, but certainly maintaining two separate schools is not a sensible solution for language learning or social cohesion in the long term. These proposals concern a wide range of aspects, but I will address, in a few words, the proposals for teacher training, which mean, on the one hand, promoting cooperation projects between schools and universities. Here was the question that funding should then be directed to. Also, there are certainly proposals to complement both initial and further training of teachers with integrated elements of subject and language learning, and to provide this in further education to active teachers as well. The course teacher must also gain knowledge of language acquisition and competences in order to work in a multilingual and cultural classroom. Because that's the way it is. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that these children from foreign-language families, from multilingual families, come to the Estonian school. I cannot imagine that I would not have been accepted into an Estonian-language school. That's pretty absurd. I also consider it very important to prepare and develop Russian as a module of native language and culture for Estonian-language schools. There are also quite a few children in my community of multilingual and multicultural families whose children attend Estonian schools and who study their native language in a foreign language class with Estonian children, i.e. Russian. We should think about it. And certainly [are needed] aids. I think that when we talk about what the state could do, I believe that we could open the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and introduce a mandatory minimum rate of study in Estonian in all other languages in all basic schools. We could start with that. When it comes to the acquisition of language skills, let's say, in the 1970s, these were theories that actually apply both to my personal practice and to my studies. Basic language skills, i.e. language skills necessary for everyday life, are achieved by living in a language environment for one to three years and academic or cognitive language skills in up to seven years. But, of course, new subjects and new terms are constantly being studied throughout life. That's right. Where does the shoe squeeze the most? Why is it very difficult for us in Russian comprehensive schools, Russian comprehensive school, to introduce this Estonian-language course of study? Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U37	We'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U38	Thank you. You will see very impressive figures on this slide, because 2019 the Ministry of Education and Research worked on a commission whose task was to develop a plan to switch to Estonian-language subjects or to Estonian-language education. And our main problem is that among students in Russian-language schools, there are very few teachers at all levels here whose language skills, proficiency in Estonian would be at least C1 or the native language would be Estonian. These are thought-provoking figures. Tiiu Kuurme missed the research. In fact, they have been done, qualitative studies in Russian schools as well as in Estonian schools. We did a study where the target groups included those schools where the final results of the Estonian language comprehensive school were very good, and then the "last tail ends." The most successful schools were those that, in addition to the usual Estonian lessons, tried to find a communication environment in the Estonian language in the school either in the form of LAK studies or in the form of various projects. And there were more teachers teaching in Estonian in these schools, teachers speaking Estonian as their native language. We have also been in the University of Tartu for quite several years, with the support of the Ministry of Culture, yes, unfortunately with the support of the Ministry of Culture, we have been training the Estonian language teachers of the language companies. The last four years have been the kind where we have given renewed methodological approaches, but also very many other language companies to Estonian language teachers, among whom there have been about a quarter of teachers in general education schools, so we have supported the school a little bit with it. About 100 teachers have completed these training cycles and 20 Estonian language teachers of Estonian-language houses. Speaking about teacher training, this year we have opened a micro-degree program for people with higher education who also have a desire to improve their knowledge of the second language of Estonian as a teacher's preparation, [this is] an adult trainer Estonian as a second language. It turned out to be surprisingly popular. We thought we were picking up 12, but there were 19 applicants. Let's just say, like we're talking about job bites, so they want to learn from work in small bites like this. Since I can't speak here for very long, I will conclude by showing a slide that is from Teacher's page on March 3, 2021, where the practitioner, or Külli Kuri, has spoken as the second language of Estonian, has spoken. "I dare say that every student who starts at a school with an Estonian language at least in the primary class will be able to learn with consistent and well thought-out support in the same way as his Estonian classmates." And here's the final slide. I really think that language is learned using. I very much believe that the Estonian school needs a new type of Estonian teacher. I very much believe that the teacher is also a language teacher. And I will ask you once again whether the social and political agreement "Estonian School is in Estonian and throughout general education" is possible. We need a precise timetable and action plan on how this transition should take place. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, we cannot talk about the role of motivation here at length, but still, this whole other environment than the Russian child is asking such a question that for which Estonian would be for me, I would say that then we should also think about the greater Estonian language of the other environment. Thank you. And I'm so sorry I went over time!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U39	These things can be further discussed in the round of questions and answers, and the questions are quite a question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U40	Good manager and waitress! According to the previous waitress, the Estonian school is avantüristic. Your proposals do not really exist and should avoid being kept separate. But my question is this Latvian phenomenon. In Latvia and Riga, in particular, there is much more Russian nation than we have here. And you are saying that the Latvian model has proved to be much more successful. I ask why Estonia is then lagging behind and when we did not do anything. What is this Latvian phenomenon, this success?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U41	Thank you for your question. I think we will look back to 1997 when this process in Estonia was stopped, i.e. the transition to study in Estonian at a school in other languages. This is the moment of time we could reverse. And the second problem is that it was decided that this transition could only be in upper secondary school, that comprehensive school was excluded. I am pretty sure that in good faith it was hoped that if the upper secondary school grade is 60: 40 mainly in Estonian, then the Russian-language elementary school itself would make an effort to make sure that these children were prepared. Unfortunately, that did not happen. One third of Russian primary school moved on quite clearly due to the lack of language skills directly to vocational schools and Russian-speaking groups. I'm afraid that's the case. According to the Latvian model, student education started immediately in Latvian as well in Russian comprehensive school, and I think that is one of the important reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U42	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, In the Chamber of the Riigikogu, problems in Estonian language and educational organisation have been repeatedly solved. The fact that language learning, learning the language, must start from kindergarten, has, in my opinion, become shoulders in society. Do you think that today's problems have accumulated because, in the 30 years of independence, no political decision has been taken that education in the Republic of Estonia has been organised in Estonian? Wouldn't that be a clear signal, a motivation for all the families living here with other native languages, a signal to the state that inevitable restructuring must begin now? Is the objective set today, I quote: "... is mostly passed on to Estonian-language school by 2035," is not too long a period?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U44	Thank you for your question. I think we should all look in the mirror at all those who have made these laws and shaped these policies over the course of 30 years. There will be no change in education overnight. When we say now that by 2035 we will have a general education in Estonian, so-called throughout the world, I hope that we will first take this political decision, right, that it will be throughout, and then we will move this way. If this decision has also been communicated to Russian families, in fact they are already voting with their feet, for a very, very long time. It is not for nothing that many children from Russian-speaking families have been sent to the Estonian-speaking school. I very much agree with all those who are saying that the Estonian school is in trouble, we must help the Estonian school. Yeah, but let's look in the mirror. I'm not saying that only this composition must look in the mirror, but these formations have been here before. I don't know what's been missing. Perhaps the courage, the vote of the voters?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U45	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It's been a pleasure listening to you. You gave different examples, different places of concern, and good in the same way. In order for Estonian culture and language to be preserved, conditions must naturally be created. Above all, perhaps we also need to change our own attitude, the attitude of all of us who live here in Estonia. How do you see if today's society is ready for great change?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U47	Thank you for your question. It was very good to follow this during the 2019 Riigikogu elections, when language issues appeared very intensively in the programmes of all parties. I am not only talking about the topic of general education in Estonian, but also about the issue of the sustainability of the Estonian language in higher education, which is not today's subject, but which I would also like to talk to you about for three hours. Society, it seems to me, is ripe, but it seems to me as a scientist that a little too little, isn't it? But at the same time, party platforms, party programmes also reflect society's expectations. And it is not at all of minor importance that the plans of all parties in the Centre Party had a slightly more milder wording of the Estonian language, and the importance of general education in Estonian for all our young people also reached the plans of almost all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U48	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U49	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! We talk, and rightly so, very much about school education and also about teaching Estonian in kindergarten, but I think we are talking a little too little about how to guarantee the support of homes. This is still a very, very serious question. When it comes to a child in the language, one problem is that homes cannot support, and from there it all begins. How can we solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U50	Thank you for your question. As a linguist, I'm a little flinching at the word "in English," because there's so much negativity in that word. How can we provide support for homes? Both the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn have published aids for parents, because we also have many families abroad who need to provide support for their children abroad in a foreign language environment, how to keep the Estonian language, and if learning goes in a different language, how to develop this Estonian language then. We have support materials for parents. I read about it in the media, and I am really glad that there is now a measure for Russian-speaking children to hire a support teacher in the afternoon group of Estonian-language comprehensive schools. 23 schools have received money to provide "supportive education" in the Estonian-language school group for children who study at Estonian school and whose home language is something other than Estonian to help them follow up. The same way we do with Chinese students at the University of Tartu. We have cooperation programmes with the University of International Relations in Beijing. Well, Margit Sutrop knows very well about this, doesn't he? We have come from Chinese students, to whom our own students offer further education, it is also an internship for these students. They solve homework and do exercises together, and students help them to learn Estonian after lectures. In the same way, I think that this kind of support training for primary school children must be offered by the Estonian school and could be offered later when it is necessary. Finland was also mentioned in the previous presentation. Yes, 8% are children of immigrant families, but in Finland, the family who has already lived in Finland and whose child has been born in Finland is no longer included, but their home language is something else. This percentage of children whose home language is something else is considerably higher. For example, in many schools in Helsinki, it is already 30%, and Finns can do it, they can do it with a very good support system.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U51	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U52	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your excellent presentation. Here's the question. You spoke of the fact that the Estonian school is in trouble, and it seems to me that the Estonian university is also in trouble. And the question would be, directly, how could the state support universities, so that the proposals that you have sent to the Commission and which I think all deserve to be implemented would actually come up with something. I am thinking in particular of one aspect, which is what you said nicely, that every teacher, a teacher, is also an Estonian teacher. How could "integrated" subject and language learning actually become part of teacher training modules in the form of further training, retraining for teachers, and how could we increase the preparation of teachers as a second language of Estonian? What can the state do to support universities, and what do universities themselves do to support them?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U53	Thank you for your question. I really do stick to the fact that every teacher in Estonian is also a language teacher. The history teacher is also a language teacher. He teaches the vocabulary to the Estonian child as well as to a child with a foreign language. I think one solution is to offer such modules in refresher training to teachers, this is one of the activities. It wasn't for nothing that I drew attention to our micro-degree program. This is precisely the set that gives language knowledge, knowledge of language structure, a little bit of the linguistic background, but also, of course, how to teach, or didactical knowledge. I think that these measures or those proposals, which you will find on the website of the Special Committee on Estonian Languages, maybe the Riigikogu could really take a look at them. Of course, I am not so strong in legislation that it is possible to initiate a national programme by the Riigikogu to support the Estonian-language school in all its activities in order to prepare better, and also to support universities in order to modernise teacher training. We're really doing it, but, well, it's all going a little too slow. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U54	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U55	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And thank you, Professor Birute Klaas-Lang, for this presentation and for the solutions you have offered both by the university and personally! But I'd like to come back to the last report. I understand that it may not be good in the world of science to make you optimize like this, but a member of the Riigikogu may ask for anything. And it got to me very much that last waitress realized that until the other language kid learned Estonian, we wouldn't allow him to go to school. What is your position on this? Do you support this view? And what about those children who may not be able to learn enough Estonian in kindergarten, or those who are already in our education system at the age that does not allow them to go to kindergarten? Are we going to close the doors to the Estonian school for them and make them study somewhere else? If so, where?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U56	Thank you for your question. I will give you the example of Finland. This 900-hour preparatory education is intended for immigrant families. When the Syrian family, the Afghan family, comes to Finland, everyone, both adults and children, is entitled to 900 hours. It's such a big package. But there has also been a major change in this discourse in Finland over the last 15 years. If, another 15 years ago, they thought that three years we were teaching them somewhere there and then sending them to Finnish society, it has now changed. The basic knowledge of Finnish is given to both adults and children and then the "use-based language learning" is given. A child from Afghanistan who comes to Finland will be assigned to a certain school, and he and his new schoolmates will be able to complete courses, such as courses, which require a smaller degree in Finnish. She goes with them to physical education classes, music lessons, art classes, and in addition, she gets very intensive Finnish language education. And since the second year, he has the opportunity to take part in other classes. For no reason have I shown here the so-called iceberg theory of Cummins' acquisition of language, according to which basic language skills or basic language skills will come in about three years. Again, honourable ambassadors, look around Europe. In France, for example, children go to a "school" when they are three years old, but this is actually a kindergarten. This is precisely in order to harmonise all the preparation for school, and this is done in a large number of countries with a large number of non-national-speaking populations. We will certainly be able to apply very different models here. We also need to think about the fact that we also have refugee families, but we also have to ensure that these children are united in Estonian society and, of course, in Estonian education how we do it. But when you think of the basics, the thing that puzzles me is that the fact that the mother tongue skills of an Estonian child are also constantly evolving is forgotten. If you take a six-year-old child with an Estonian native language and put a seventh-grade child next to them, their Estonian language is quite different. Why do we think that only a child with another native language needs to develop the language? This is what the Estonian child needs. And just as it is clear that if kindergarten stops and goes to school with a lower level of Estonian language, she should receive a tutorial at school. We can't close the doors to our schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U57	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you for your presentation. What do you think is the reason that so far some students in other languages are unable to acquire Estonian properly in school? At the same time, I know examples when students from Russia began studying at the University of Tartu, they were able to acquire the Estonian language at this level in one year to continue their studies in Estonian. Why are there no uniform and effective methods of teaching Estonian in schools? And I ask for silence from my colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U59	It's a complicated question, I don't have one answer here. We should talk first about the same slide I had at the end of everything. The slide was written on it, so why would I need an Estonian language? So it's motivation. When a young person with any other home language comes to the University of Tartu and starts studying, it is very important that he quickly learns the Estonian language and it motivates him to learn it. Still, what makes me want to learn is that I have a purpose, something that forces me to learn, whether it's my inner need or the fact that I don't understand what's being said in lectures. I had a very nice talk with a girl from Sillamäe, which was many years ago who came to study philosophy. Russian school, Russian native language, and he told me that the first two months were very difficult. He conspected in his lectures and at home he counted and looked at what it was that he wrote down. After two months, there was a breakthrough, and then it was very simple. I think one reason is motivation. I fully agree that there are still teachers in schools, many teachers who do not have enough tools to teach. There are also shortcomings in methodological techniques or methodologies. I agree with that. But what's interesting is: good attracts and strong attracts still strong. The same qualitative survey of schools we did in 2014. Those schools that had poor results at the end of the ninth grade were complaining: we can't get teachers, nobody wants to work here, where do we take these teachers? And the leaders of good schools with strong results said they had no problem finding teachers. It's still like a snowball, when there's a very strong headmaster, when there's a motivated headmaster, he can also gather a good team. I believe that one issue that has not been addressed today is the issue of school leaders. In Latvia, too, both the Ministry of Education and the Riga Department of Education kept repeating it. The key is the headmaster. If there is a school manager who wants to design a new type of school culture, who hires teachers who are competent, then it is possible to change. If the headmaster's the one who wants to, sorry, tick, there won't be any changes. That is a very good question, but it is a difficult problem, and I do not have one answer to answer for just one thing to help. Very, very many things need to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U60	We can take one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Professor! I've been going through your paperwork. Here, basically, the story focuses everything, say, on children with Russian native language and, to a certain extent, on the knowledge of another language. But I have one concern in the sense that strategic objective 3 of the Estonian language development plan [says]: all Estonian residents speak Estonian and value the skills of other languages. In other words, all residents of Estonia speak Estonian. The situation is that we now have the question that, under the pressure of migration, people are coming in from all over us. What do you do, for example, with a bad example, perhaps, but with a Bantu tribal person who speaks a little bit of English? And what about his training? Of course, this problem is very big, actually.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U62	Thank you. I don't know if we've already got the bandits here, but we're probably gonna have to think about it. It is also possible to teach the language to an illiterate person naturally. And in the world as a whole, the practice is that the target language is taught in the target language. Perhaps simply explained: Estonian is taught in Estonian. Again, there are very good examples in Finland of how, I do not know whether, now, these Bandatos, but also practically people who do not know English, who come to Finland, are taught Finnish. It's possible, it's really possible. And once again, the motivation that this bantu wants to learn is very much. If he comes to the country and thinks that he's only going to run around in the social assistance system, and he's only getting benefits, and that's enough for him, it's kind of hard to motivate him. But children can be taught at school in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U63	Thank you very much. Time's up. Let's go to the third report today. Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Problem Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning. Report 20 minutes, questions-answers 40 minutes. Please, Mikhail!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U64	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U65	Wait, please! We have a procedure. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U66	You could have asked me first, but it's a little strange. Did I hear correctly that the representative of the Riigikogu receives more time to perform than academic performers? It has not been a practice so far. We had a report by Professor Klaas-Lang that was essentially incomplete, no questions could be asked, and now we have a man here with whom we can talk at any moment and meet on committees. Is that the suggestion we're having a conversation here?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U67	The Board of the Riigikogu sets up this plan in accordance with the proposal of the initiator and this was the proposal of the initiator. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U68	Thank you. The problem committee on the development of Estonian language with its consensual decision initiated today's hearing in the large hall, first and foremost, in order to make the composition of the XIV Riigikogu aware of the conclusions that the committee has drawn in the course of its work. The 20-minute format does not give me the opportunity to focus on specific debates in the Commission; rather, I think it is necessary to address linguistic problems. Once again, in this area, I note that everything I am reporting to you has been discussed with representatives of all the political groups of the Riigikogu in the committee and approved by consensus. I, as representative of the Centre Party Group, Helmen Kütt from the Social Democratic Party Group, Priit Sibul from Isamaa and Urmas Espenberg from EKRE, have practically 100% participated in the work of the Commission and all these decisions have been taken, including a proposal for 20 and 40 minutes in a changed composition. I will start with three questions. Can you be satisfied with the results of Estonian language learning, not in a particular academic year, but in the last 30 years? The clear and honest answer is that you cannot be satisfied. The second question: has anything been done to make a radical and irreversible change in the situation? The Commission's conclusion is that it is not. And the third question: is it possible to organise an Estonian language learning process in a Russian-speaking school in such a way that it achieves the desired goal and that each graduate can master enough of the official language? The clear and honest answer is yes, it is possible. Now ask yourself how a situation has arisen where everything necessary to solve the problem is concentrated in the state, but the results are weeping. For me, the answer is clear: we failed in this Chamber. All these coalitions that existed in the field of Estonian language learning over the last 30 years focused on political slogans, not on specific work. The Riigikogu is extremely weak whenever it is necessary to solve a higher level problem and to employ a particular official not in some office or inspection, but in the entire ministry. In the fight to promote the Estonian language, the Riigikogu clearly lost to the Ministry of Education. 20 years ago in this hall I defended the Russian-speaking school and, at the same time, paid the members of the Riigikogu's attention to the problems that were needed to solve so that teaching the Estonian language and effective learning in the Russian-speaking school would be possible at all. 20 years later, unfortunately, I have to say that all the problems that I was talking about at the time are alive and well, and nothing indicates that anyone is trying to end them. Firstly, the preparation of teaching tools is still outside the mandate of the Ministry of Education and Research. Printing dictionaries and textbooks is a purely commercial activity. At the same time, the promotion of language is a national priority, as is national defence, for example. If you ask, the absolute majority of us will be defending this claim be that national defence is the top priority of the state. But what would happen if the state knowingly delegated defence to private companies? It's not conceivable. Everyone understands that. Why, then, has it been done to a large extent with the teaching of Estonian? I'll continue. The teaching materials are full of mistakes and do not take into account the most primitive needs of the language learner. I want to show you a table, please, on the screen. When the Commission started working on this problem committee for a very long time at the beginning, we met in 2019 after the March elections in June and were only able to put together our work plans by autumn, I asked the officials of the Committee on Culture to do one prior job. We took everything out of the National Library, absolutely all the Russian-Estonian dictionaries that had been issued, just in case we took it from 1980. But most of them, of course, have been issued since 1991. In the absolute majority of this hall, you are all Estonians, and you know perfectly well that if you need to speak in Estonian, we will start with the following. When it comes to cursing words that must be known to the person learning Estonian in order to use the word correctly? Descriptive, possessive, skilful, and short noticeable. You know that. The employees of the Ministry of Education know that, I have no doubt about that. Publishers, publishers, authors know that. And now look, the first row, the declination. Only one of the 14 dictionaries was naming, possessive, skilful, and brief. Everyone else only gives you nameable. Do I have to give you examples of Estonian words where you might not even understand when you're a language learner that it's the same word? Next, infinitives. So it is in Estonian that one form is formed based on the ma-infinitive, the other form from the da-infinitive and quite good if you also know the middle word. It's got a way of using it. And now look at what virtually all of the dictionarys, except for one dictionary, give the just the ma-infinitive. For 30 years, we are talking in this Chamber about how it is necessary to improve the Estonian language, and for 30 years, dictionaries are issued, which is the first learning tool for anyone who learns the language, where there is only a ma-infinitive, except one. The first turn of the singular. I understand it has to be. And in 13 dictionaries, all I see is a ma-infinitive. Where in God's name does a man take the knowledge that "do" in the first turn is "do"? Well, and, of course, the turns of exceptions, very often used words "do," "eat," "drink," "be" and so on. There are few of them, but they have not been brought out anywhere except one book. I think it's enough, it's a very simple table. This means that the situation in the field of teaching equipment is very weepy. Look at the watch, I didn't fix it, but I think it took me about four minutes to explain a very simple problem. I hope now no one has any doubt that a report which, in the same argument, would explain all the ways, would require not 20 minutes, but 200 minutes. But let's move on. No common methodology has been developed to ensure that there is some minimum level required for each learner. If you have a desire to talk about methodologies, please indicate in the round of questions, I will explain to you what we are talking about. At the moment, however, I note that the lack of such a common methodology does not provide the opportunity to produce some kind of high-quality and universally-friendly textbooks. To conclude on the first point, I would like to remind you once again of the table that was here. In 30 years, do you think it was quite certain that we had to put up with this situation, or was there something we could do? Nothing was done. Point two. There are no positive changes in the preparation of teachers. After the state order has been abolished, the dynamics are rather negative. I would remind you that in the 1990s, the higher education institutions had the specialty "Estonian Language Teacher in a School in Other Languages." It's written in my diploma. It was. In the first half of the 1990s, more than a hundred Estonian language teachers were prepared each year, both during the day and at the University of Tartu. From the first year onwards, it was the Estonian language teacher who was taught what was necessary. This made it possible that in Narva, where in 1989 only two certified Estonian teachers worked in schools, there were over a hundred by the end of the 1990s. Universities now, which are not at all satisfied with this, the committee has met with the authoritative specialists of both the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn, and have acknowledged this, launch teachers who have had three years to choose which specialty to study. In 2020, 23 such graduates graduated from the University of Tartu, three from the University of Tallinn, with most of them not reaching school. That's the only empirical statement in my report. There are opinions on this, but there are no statistics. A person graduates from a university, has received a teaching profession for state funding, maybe it's even an Estonian teacher in a school in a different language, but he's not in school. It would be quite difficult to blame these people for that. Pedagogical schooling has not been compulsory. When I first heard it, I couldn't believe my ears. We discussed at length in the Commission, we came to see that there really should be practice, but there is no obligation to go through it at school. This means that a person goes to a language company, for example, and goes through an internship there. That's the situation. Who are we preparing, a teacher? And when will he go to class? Does he go at all if he hasn't even been a trainee at school? The situation is that we now have 665 teachers of Estonian. There's no Master's degree in 213 of them. You heard from a previous report that it is at the master's degree level that this profession will be awarded. There are 115 teachers aged 60+. This means that it is already necessary to think about this 200 and to think that 115 more will retire in the next few years. But we let out 20 teachers a year. Fifteen years' work. The same gloom is practically all about preparing teachers. At this point, I would like to mention a psychological paradox and give my vision of why the members of the Riigikogu who usually speak on the subject of learning Estonian are so highly optimistic. For example, they are happy to say that, look, in 2017 alone, 27 people joined the University of Tartu to study Estonian as a teacher. Very positive. A former member of the Commission, Mr. Urmas Espenberg, did a great job a year and a half ago when he received such entry tables, and he found out that three of the 27 students graduated from the Master's degree, 11%, and no information on whether any of them went to school at all. Outside note. In order to understand how sad things are with adult language learning, I suggest you read the National Audit Office's report "Organisation of adult Estonian language learning and public funding" rather than asking for a description of the situation from those who have spent tens of millions of euros to achieve a result close to zero. I am going a little further away from the subject, but I will read two sentences to you: "The State Audit Office considers that there is no clear, substantive leader in organising adult education in Estonian, responsible for the development of the field, or systematic coordination of language learning activities between the relevant public authorities. " And another sentence: "The biggest problem for adults is the shortage of qualified language teachers, including teachers, to enable them to learn the Estonian language. " Exactly the same problems are in school. Only the National Audit Office has not yet reached this point. Thirdly, it is a concern that, instead of systematic continuity, there is a complete lack of thinking in the field of teaching the Estonian language. For example, the idea of creating a system of teaching Estonian in kindergartens can suddenly become modern. I'm in favour, I've been talking about the need for it since the mid-1990s. However, it will be built up without the corresponding teaching tools and prepared teachers based on a specific methodology being made, and this campaign will be carried out by the same people who have successfully screwed up Estonian language learning in general education schools. So I note that the systemic work will be replaced by another sudden attack, and in ten years' time someone, fortunately not me, will have to explain in front of this hall why we still have the same problems that were 20 and 30 years ago. It was a description of the situation. Now, however, I will present to you the Committee on Problems' vision of what needs to be done in order to have any hope of improving the situation in the coming years. Point one, it is necessary for competent specialists to set up working groups for the creation of methodologies, educational tools and such from early childhood education, kindergarten, and secondary education according to each parallel. Point two, it is necessary to ensure that the state controls the quality of the educational resources, at least in the field of national language learning. Point three, it is necessary to prepare emergency measures for the preparation of Estonian language teachers. Point four, in cooperation with the University of Tartu and Tallinn, develop curricula "Estonian Language Teacher in a School in Other Languages" and ensure that they have a state order to the extent necessary for the state. I must say once again that the objective can only be achieved if the political parties in the Riigikogu find a way to stop chewing each other and cooperate, even in the interests of effective teaching of the language. Point five, as a matter of urgency, set up an Estonian language competence centre composed of experts, practitioners and politicians, which would be responsible for the realization of the previous four points and would work as openly as possible. These proposals were made by the Committee on Problems just over a year ago, but they have not lost their topicality. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Riigikogu, who were actively involved in the work of the Committee on Problems, and the officials of the Committee on Culture, who were very competent to carry out their duties. Thank you! And now I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U69	Thank you very much. But it seems there are no questions. And if they don't come, the time for the reports will be over, and we can move on to the negotiations. First of all, there should be speakers from the political groups. I assume Jürgen Ligi speaks on behalf of the group. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U70	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I thank Professor Birute Klaas-Lang for pointing to an elephant in the room. This is, of course, not about learning the Estonian language, or even about teaching the Estonian language in Russian schools, but about learning the Estonian language everywhere. The rest of this event is a parallel to the situation in which we have a pandemic, but we are discussing an important national issue on 'How to avoid vaccination or how horrible is the injection'. In fact, it is possible to talk about Russian schools, but in this case, the Estonian language could be removed from here, because the situation in Russian schools is also a national issue. It didn't work out today, but these test results are frightening and serious national concern. There is no point in pretending that this show today has begun here because it was set as its goal, how to say, to reject the transition to Estonian-language learning. It was a countermeasure to our draft of Estonian-language education and the government's obligation to organise it. This committee is insane. And here the rest of the reports tended to be exactly the same. It is good that Professor Klaas-Lang gave an example from Latvia. I would have asked him if all this had happened in Latvia, that language was falling, Latvian teachers were fleeing school, and Latvian children were no longer going to school, and maybe even get beaten up. But this thing has history. When it comes to looking in the mirror, I've looked in the mirror and asked repeatedly where I was before. I can say that it is not possible to make a breakthrough here, as a rule, on professional topics, even if it is not possible to perceive a problem when neither itself nor its party has a portfolio in this area. I was honoured with this from 2015 to 2016, in a year and a half, and during this whole period, I did not discover this topic at the Ministry of Education. It wasn't on the agenda, that kind of thing. Of course, I was familiar with such delayed decisions to some extent, but to be aware that society is actually ready and actually our house is on fire, I once again came with the professor on a television show and listened to a radio show called "Krillitsa Estonia" where Russian journalists spoke. I suddenly realized what I've missed. Society is ready. We have to get involved, it's possible. I didn't know that before, I'm telling you the truth. That main complaint, when we started dealing with it in 2017, was where you used to be. But where were you before? Where were you, sayers? You've had that briefcase the whole time. And why do you blame me for not doing this, for not dealing with what has already been done, but with what has not been done? This absurd situation requires a change. In 2016, while this chip was in my head and in my party, I call it that, there was a great reverse. In 2016, the coalition gave Russian schools money for some kind of pilot project, extra money to give up 60:40 language requirements. Absurd reverse gear like... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U71	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U72	In the same way, the topic of the school leaders was mentioned here, so that the school leaders would be affected to some extent by the state, so that they would not sit in a Russian-speaking bubble in a Russian-speaking municipality or part of the city and would not be inviolable, in a common language or fight against the Estonian language and Estonian mind. Is this whole thing supposed to result in mixed schools we're supposed to talk about? Slowly, of course. But there's no point in painting this ghost really, because in real life people choose the school themselves and they're still looking for their own kind. But it does not excuse us for introducing national segregations and talking about how everyone escapes when they come in contact with each other, making them go in different directions. It's not like that. Language learning is not enough for a long time, as the same Human Development Report for 2017 said, I recall. 2019 this Commission was set up, as I said, as a counterproposal and it reached exactly where we had already finished in 2017. The problems had already been described. Started talking about how you can't, and today we heard how you can't. Certainly Mikhail Stalnukhin is a very good specialist in teaching Estonian. But it's a micro-issue compared to this subject itself, it's not even that elephant's toenail, I'm sorry. It is, however, a debate at the level of the specialised committees, not at the political level, how or how they should be reflected in one textbook. I don't think there's been a relief of what's really going to happen. I'm glad Signe Kivi asked about this 2035 ambition. This is extremely regrettable. In fact, we would need nine or ten years if we were to start, from first grade, since the last group of kindergartens, since preschool, but ten years to reach the upper secondary school and in parallel, horizontally to bring in more Estonian to other stages. That is not where we must remain to describe the problems. But no one said what would happen to those who were left behind. What's going on right now? What will happen to the Russians until 2035 who are the last to put out the fire? Think of the quality that comes from there. Think of that sense, the turdiness that arises in relation to another society, and the contingent that stays there. What about them? Tell me about it when you say we have plenty of time, we'll keep dragging on and it'll go by itself, as the previous government always said. They answered our questions about education in Estonian: yes, learning Estonian is very important. This remote control, over and over! You're doing the Russians a disservice. But you also do Estonians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U73	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair Urmas Reinsalu. Yes, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U74	Estonian-language school education guarantees the integration of children and young people into Estonia's cultural and value area and gives everyone an equal opportunity to participate in social and professional life and continue their studies at the next level of education. This is the path of the Estonian language development plan, which the Estonian state has adopted in its own direction, and this patho must be implemented in practice. This segregation, which has taken place for 30 years, cannot be an excuse, but rather an aggravating and blaming fact that we have not taken sufficient steps. I would like to join the presentations of the esteemed professors on two sides and quote Mrs Kuurme's question. "Will we remain a nation, or will we remain just one dying community among others? This question, which has been sent to existential generations, does not shrink, but is amplified. " A quote from Mrs. Kuume's report. And I'll continue with his quote. "The identity of the Estonian state was, is and will remain the identity of the Estonian nation. If this understanding is abandoned, Estonia, as a country, will lose any basis or purpose at all. " And Mrs Kuurme continues in a demanding and clear way: "Let us first turn Estonian society into Estonian. A Russian can handle his language anywhere in Estonia. What should motivate him to learn Estonian? " This question, honourable Parliament, needs Parliament's answer. And now I'm going to keep thinking. According to the Constitution, Estonian is the official language of Estonia. The objectives of the national language are to ensure the linguistic identity of the state and the unity of the citizenry, the effective and sustainable functioning of the state through the high quality of the language, and to preserve the national language in international communication. The national language has a symbolic and applied function. We must, by looking at the acquisition of Russian-language education in our schools today, say that this situation is abnormal. This violates human rights, segregation, failure to respect equal opportunities is economically detrimental and undermines the security of the Estonian state. It should be noted that there are still several shortcomings in the provision of education in Estonian today, which have been pointed out here by all the waitresses. One place of pain is the shortage of places in kindergartens with Estonian language of instruction, as mothers of children in other languages also wish to put their children in kindergartens with the Estonian language of instruction in many cases. Formally, Estonian language learning takes place everywhere, while there is no substantive monitoring of the effectiveness of the learning being carried out. To ensure a high-quality and competitive education, the network of general education schools needs to be reorganised on the basis of the requirement to switch to Estonian-language education in Russian-language schools. For example, we are in a situation where two fifths of middle school students are currently studying in a segregating Russian school system in Tallinn. The situation in Lasnamägi, where such students account for more than two thirds of the total, is particularly critical. These problems have also been addressed in a number of different documents and studies. The Estonian Human Development Report 2016 explicitly states: "Estonia's society is characterised by a broad national and language divide, which is particularly noticeable in Tallinn. Significant ethnic differences occur not only in terms of the values and identity of people living in Estonia, but also in terms of their educational attainment, level of education, occupation, job, income and place of residence. " This year's spring integration monitoring report confirmed the same. The segregation of Estonians and Estonian Russians, the lack of a common media and discussion field lies primarily in the educational organisation that is in a different language and direction. According to the Local Government Organisation Act, municipalities organise the activities of pre-school institutions, primary schools, upper secondary schools and hobbies owned by them. Responsibility for the educational network and the role of Estonian language in education means that the state must enforce the rules and local governments must develop comprehensive operational and operational programmes to ensure the Estonian language skills of educators. I would like to draw attention to the example of Tallinn alone. This year alone, the Language Board has detected violations of language law in 25 different educational institutions. In doing so, workers have been prescribed more than half a century, and the time limits for injunctions have been extended to 30 years after the restoration of the country has been extended! Approximately 170 times. If the leaders of schools and kindergartens do not speak the Estonian language at the required level, it will, of course, be passed on to employees, the collective and, in turn, to children and their parents. This, in turn, restores segregation in Estonian society. We heard here the speech of the chairman of the Estonian Language Problem Committee, which was in fact a disguised counter-work from his thinking to the transition to Estonian-language learning, with the indication that we have too much discourse, that in dictionaries people do not find the right equivalents to these endings, and that is why we cannot switch to Estonian-language education. It was a covert counterwork. But we have also seen and see public counter-working in order to switch to education in Estonian. We are the Republic of Estonia. We're a nation state. The Estonian language is the central foundation of our identity and we must stand for the Republic of Estonia to be an Estonian-language country. This is the basis for which we must not compromise. And this issue, of course, has been transformed into a matter of political context on political motives, which it should not be. I stress once again that in the Republic of Estonia, the development plan for the Estonian language has been adopted until 2035 and it is the duty of all loyal officials, all the municipalities, all the Members of Parliament who have sworn to the Estonian Constitution in this Chamber, to implement, defend and carry on these principles. Therefore, this is not a question of this, and I agree with the point made by the previous speaker on this, and at political level, it is not a question of how to organise teacher training at technical level, teaching materials, and also to motivate schools. Of course, all these issues must be dealt with, but this is an issue of an operational nature, which is not a matter of political debate, but must be implemented if the country has a political will in this regard. And this political will we must realise. This is our mandate as a Parliament. This is our mandate, which must also be in all local governments. From Mr Stalnukhin's speech, I heard excuses why these things cannot be done, why these things have not been done before, and why these things, as I interpreted his reasoning, could not be done in a predetermined future. We have to turn over a new page. And these two expert speeches, I am grateful to the Commission in this respect, I am grateful to Mrs Kurume, Professor Klaas, they must be a wake-up call for the entire Estonian society. The situation over 30 years is not an excuse, but an aggravating circumstance. Good luck to all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U75	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak White.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U76	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U77	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear listeners, I would like to begin by congratulating all the main speakers. In my opinion, the messages of all three presentations were very substantive, but I myself am not only talking about Estonian-language school education, but I am trying to talk a little bit more about the proficiency of the Estonian language and the factors affecting it. The most reliable information on language skills is provided by the census. According to the last census in 2011, 44% of people aged 10 years and older knew the official language. According to this definition, those who coped with familiar language situations, speaking, listening, writing and reading were considered to speak Estonian. In short, they were basically very lenient requirements. It is likely that this share has increased somewhat by now. But, of course, we cannot be content with this situation. It is claimed that there is only one country in Europe where national language skills are even lower than in Estonia, namely Moldova. It is true that we inherited such a complex population from the period of occupation, and it is not the Estonian or non-Estonian people who are responsible for it. But the problems created by the occupation are not solved afterwards by the occupying power, but we ourselves must solve them. How good our language policy has been to teach the Estonian national language to the other languages, i.e. whether our position, where we are only crossing Moldova, is inevitable, can still be assessed in comparison. A good analogue country is Latvia here, our destiny partner. I am very pleased that this has already been highlighted several times. As we know, the share of Latvians in Latvia at the end of the occupation period was even much lower than in Estonia [the proportion of Estonians], and this is actually the case today. One thing is the language population and the other is the population of foreign origin. Maybe the share of the population of foreign origin is not higher in Latvia; maybe Estonia is larger. Anyway, according to the 2011 census, 68% of the residents of Estonia speak Estonian at home, 61% speak Latvian in Latvia. Nevertheless, 82% of residents speak the official language in Estonia, while 90% speak the official language in Latvia. It is true that these data are not quite comparable, as Estonia's data are from the 2011 census, while Latvia's data are from the Latvian Statistical Office since 2017, which our Legal and Analytical Department managed to obtain from Latvia, and may these be thanked by the people of this department, in particular Kai Raudkivi. Our Statistical Office's annual data on language skills from registers are unfortunately not comparable, are completely contradictory; they cannot be used. After the census, we'll hopefully get more accurate data. However, the difference, namely the better situation in Latvia, is still quite clear. And this reason cannot be anything other than Latvia's better policy, especially in view of Latvia's worse starting position. True, let us make one more concession; Latvian is easier to learn for people of Slavic origin than Estonian. Professor Klaas-Lang has already stopped at length on the Latvian model; I am not going to talk about it. The transition to education in the national language ends in Latvia 2021/2022. Maybe this year we can congratulate the Latvians. Now I'm going to talk about the background conditions. If we ask why the level of national language skills in Moldova is so low, we will get the answer that this language has a low reputation. Here, very briefly, I would like to address the teaching and scientific language of our higher education institutions. Will we still be able to convincingly justify the need to learn the Estonian language to the second-language Estonians if we ourselves joyfully and revelly english. And my answer is that we're not convincing. I could not make a thorough comparison with Latvia, but on the basis of the initial result, I can confirm that the share of foreign students in Latvia is about the same as in Estonia, but there is no doubt that much of them, perhaps even more often, will learn in Latvian rather than in English, as we do. Secondly, in order to put the background conditions in advance, I'd go through a calculation with you. You see, we have about 400000 second-language residents in Estonia, and we know that among the two censuses Estonian language skills increased from 38% to 44%, i.e. 6% in total, 0.6% per year. This means that in 2001, 152000 languages were able to speak Estonian on the basis of these loose parameters, with an increase of 176000 in 2011 of 2400. Of course, it is a very approximate number, clearly varying between years [incision] etc., etc., but it gives an idea of the magnitude of how fast we are moving. Now we are asking whether this is a sufficient speed in the context of other changes, in other words, in circumstances where we have more people who do not speak the language every year, and I mean not children, but immigrants. It would actually be impossible to say yes. As Estonian is not one of the international languages of communication, immigrants arrive in Estonia as a rule without even a lesser degree of knowledge. And learning the language begins after coming to the country, depends on a number of factors, etc. If, now, with a great deal of effort, we are able to teach the language each year to 2000-3000 other-language residents and we are tasked with ensuring that language skills are complete, but at the same time 4 000-5000 people who do not speak the language at all remain in the country, how the country or the government, or the policy, should be called who conducts such immigration policies, could ask. Friedrich Reinhold Kreutzwald has offered a name for this activity some century and a half ago. And, in comparison, Latvian politics do not, because there is no mass immigration to Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U79	Thank you very much. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Eduard Odinets. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U80	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear watchers on Facebook and elsewhere! Good waitresses! First of all, thank you for this debate, it was very interesting. But I'll start with a personal story, as usual. Docent Kuurme spoke about her students who have Russian background and who are able to learn Estonian and successfully study and defend research work at Tallinn University. I don't know if Docent Kuurme remembers, but I'm his student, too. That's more than 20 years ago. But I also came from Kohtla-Järve. I was 17 years old, from a pure Russian school, and I attended an education class. How much do you think I understood about the lecture? I didn't understand anything! Luckily, there were good girls from Estonian schools next to me who conspected, including associate professor Kuurme's lectures, and shared them with me. What did I do with it? I translated it into Russian to understand what you're talking about, and then I memorized it in Estonian. And that's how I studied, and that's how I've become a teacher of Estonian as a foreign language, an educational scientist with a master's degree, and half as a linguist in this field. So anything's possible. It is also possible to study at a university with an Estonian language of instruction when going from Russian school. What do I remember about that at least the first half year of college? As a 17-year-old, those long weeping in the dormitory was why I'm the one who doesn't understand anything. What makes me worse? And then I thought, why have I not been properly taught the Estonian language, why was it not possible for me to learn anything in Estonian so that I could do it at the university? I did it, and here I am. But here's to the subject. Honourable associate professor Kuurme called Russian children an experiment at Estonian school. I cannot agree with that: with all due respect, this is not an experiment. It's a conscious choice of parents. The conscious choice of parents who care about the future of their children as well as the Estonian language and Estonian school. I have already given this example here: Kohtla-Järve Järve School, the only Estonian-language comprehensive school in Kohtla-Järve. I happen to be the chairman of this school's board of trustees. And I say to you: this school, the only Kohtla-Järve Estonian school, would not exist if there were no Russian children studying at this school. Russian-language children today save Estonian-language education in Kohtla-Järve. I thank them for learning. They can manage, get excellent results, go on to study at universities, and there are no problems with that. It's not an experiment! Long time no longer an experiment! There are now over 50% of them in that school and nothing bad has happened. There's a lot of talk about multiculturalism and somehow a bad taste, that it's kind of a pushy mixed-school product. That's not true! Multiculturalism is no sin. There is no rewriting history, as has been said here. I am going to say so much that if we want people with other native languages to view us, Estonians, well, we also need to deal well with these students and their parents, as well as their educational choices. There has been a lot of talk about various problems. The Chair of the Committee on Problems spoke well about many problems. Unfortunately, he does not speak of solutions. We know very well that his party and his party associates have been in charge of the Ministry of Education for years and years. And I still don't understand what stopped them from solving all these problems. Where were all these people then, and why are they bringing this problem here? There are a lot of problems, actually. The problem is the lack of teachers: the lack of teachers in Estonian is a problem, the lack of teachers in Estonian is a problem. All these things can be solved. All it takes is will, will to help. Measures are needed, solutions are needed, including educational materials, including motivation packages, including working conditions in kindergarten, primary school and upper secondary school. We look forward to the results of the work of the Working Group of the Ministry of Education and Research, which will show us what really should be done. And hopefully, these promises and solutions will also have a real budgetary cover. Social Democrats support a common Estonian education system and co-educated school where children with different mother tongues can study alongside each other, with common classes, joint activities and joint events, while preserving and valuing the national and cultural identity of pupils with different mother tongues. The transition to such a school can only take place in the specific local context. This means special models, and the same models offered by the RITA migration project can be implemented in very different regions of Estonia. And last thoughts. Much has also been said today about methodology. As an Estonian teacher, I will be honest with you that in all our schools there is one and only method of learning the Estonian language. This has been the case for years and no other methodology is needed here. This methodology is communicative language learning. Who doesn't understand it: it's the development of communication skills. Even if you don't understand it, communicative language learning focuses on communicating with each other. This interaction, speaking in Estonian, engaging in activities of interest in Estonian and other things can only be achieved by studying and acting together. And I think that what actually saves our education system and saves our education in Estonian is already a much praised language immersion model today. Children learn both languages at the same time and are accompanied by an integrated material and language learning model, all of which are part of the same communicative language learning. And that, in turn, only works if the whole school is a school of together learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U81	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U82	Good manager! Colleagues! It's fun to sit here and listen. First of all, thank the Commission for making such an OTRK. Unfortunately, the problem committee on the population crisis was killed in spring by Kaja Kallas. Mailis Reps, as Head of Delegation, maybe also out of the shame that has taken place in 30 years, did not kill the Estonian Language Problem Committee. Take your hat off for at least that! But let's get down to business. Today's composition was very good, I think. At first Tiiu Kuurme, great, such a breath of fresh air in this hall and a brief summary that a common Estonian school is an avantyristic project. The other, Professor Glass, quite the opposite: in fact, you should not keep separate and you should put one together. Excellent! And thirdly, the performance of Mr Stalnukhin here, very interesting. Well, Mikhail's got an old party soldier here, sitting here a lot the whole time. But the Central Party's opositioner. Teacher of Estonian, but has never been appointed Minister. Instead, Mailis Reps has been carrying this ministerial portfolio here, so he will. And now this critical and adequate assessment of it. How Misha said here...... said that another sudden attack, instead of a systematic work would have taken place all this for 30 years. [[Browse papers.]] Isn't that what you said? That there is such a festivities in the teaching of the Estonian language. I couldn't agree more. So first the composition was great. Now, about this RITA, a beautiful woman's name, but the content... In my opinion, it should deal with how it says... It will contribute to the development of scientifically sound innovative approaches to managing migration and integration processes with the aim of contributing to economic development in agreement! To increase the coherence of society. Everything's very beautiful. But as Tiiu Kuurme said here, yes, the nation there is such that it is, as it were, not spoken of. I read the final report too, and it's a little weird, it's awkward. The nation state. And from that point on, that's my question and answer. In the preamble to our constitution, there is, to this day, some reason yet, "The unwavering faith and unwavering will to insure and develop a state that must guarantee the survival of Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages. " I have also heard in this Chamber that maybe it should be corrected. But it seems to me that the shell is already moving towards it, that the content is already changing in full pace, and at some point it is being seen that this shell should also be changed. No one dares to do that right now. Well, that's that. Okay. Another, Professor Klaas, once again an excellent presentation and a focus on the Latvian model. Not to talk for a long time, but in Latvia, where there are many more Russians, especially in the city of Riga, success is greater in the case of a single school. Thank you, Professor Glass, for answering my question, where or when was misplaced. Where was the wrong decision made? When was this calf set up, who now gives milk, and quite poisonous milk? 1997. I saw who was the minister back then. Mait Klaassen, a good soldier of the Reform Party, but before that, Rein Loik was long. In other words, they made such poisonous things grow. But if you look at who was in the future, it's been a long time. I made a small summary, 13 years have kept the Ministry of Education's portfolio in Isamaa. Thirteen years! And Tõnis Lukas, good Tõnis for seven years. Now he wants to be mayor again. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] For nine years, the Centre Party has kept a briefcase. Mailis Reps in the same way for seven years. Well, the Reform Party really...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U83	Good waitress, your time or your request for extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U84	Yeah, I'd ask as much as I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U85	Please! Let's give it two minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U86	Yeah, and a beautiful bell.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U87	Yeah, I tried gracefully too...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U88	Yeah, yeah. And my colleague Jürgen here was complaining that they weren't responsible. It really isn't. Well, two years in Jürgen and Maris for half a year, right? I'm not gonna talk about the Sots, a year. And no one's noticed that this is a mess. Of course, no one is responsible for this either. You could say yuck. And now I would like to draw attention to Mikhail Stalnukhin's speech. Excellent! Internal view from the point of view of the teacher of the Estonian language from the mouth of the leading politician of the Centre Party. As a matter of fact, all this 30 years is empty, honked, but stunned. And now, if you look at these Estonian teachers, there are many of them, but what are the levels of those who are supposed to teach Russian children [Estonian]? Well, adults, like Mika said here, don't even talk about them. I've seen it myself. There's 6% C1, free language. You know what these levels are, A, B and C. Six percent! 30 years of independence, right, and free language, those who should teach Estonian to Russian children, have free language. Say it again: yuck! So actually, we should all look seriously in the mirror, not bloom, including the Fatherland. Not that there is now an assistant mayor of the Estonian language in Tallinn. Of course you should. Two-handed support. But what did you do before? We all have to look in the mirror. We need to think and see. The important question is which Estonia do we want. Whether it is the preservation of the Estonian nation and language in the preamble to the Constitution, or what Tiiu Kuurme said here is that Estonia is a citizen-centred and a so-called RITA migration. And that's it. We, the Conservative People's Party, have failed to keep the briefcase of the Minister of Education. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So maybe if we had, we should have looked in the mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U89	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, because first there were representatives of the Group. In today's debate, the group is represented by Andrei Korobenik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U90	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu, for this opportunity! Good ambassadors! The level of teaching the Estonian language in Russian schools is undoubtedly a problem, but this is only one concern. A significantly greater problem than this is the paralysis of certain political circles on the topic of Russian school. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been elected here in the Riigikogu to make the world a better place to live, so that Estonia would do better. We should be guided by this policy. At first glance, it may seem that confrontation is the right political move: white people vs. Black, Russian vs. Estonians, straight vs. homos, you pick a side and the voices come. So the other side hates you, the first one supports you, that's enough. And there are quite a few people in this hall who have spoken at different times about the 100% transition to education in Estonian. No methodology, no plan, just a slogan that brings votes from a certain target group, and in passing, breaks our society. Our Russian upper secondary schools have been taught for many years according to 60:40 systems. This means that 60% of subjects are taught in Estonian. The results of this experiment were vividly presented by Mikhail Stalnukhin. I can only wonder how cynical those who complain to Russian schools about the more modest average results of the state exams. What results do we expect, then, when teachers teach Russian children Estonian in broken Estonian? And what solution do we offer them? This proposal is interesting that instead of 60%, the same people could teach 100% of the subjects to these children in Estonian. That's a pretty peculiar logic. But in the end, what problem are we trying to solve by completing schooling in Russian? I assume, however, that the aim is good Estonian language skills for schoolchildren. But in order to learn the language, you do not need to learn the language. Most of the people in this hall have not graduated from high school in English and yet almost every one of us speaks good English. The Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu sometimes speaks to us in English. Our schoolchildren, Estonians and Russians, also speak English well. Estonian is no exception in this respect. This is not the most complicated language in the world. This, like other languages, can be learned. And this without the fact that you are taught chemistry in Estonian. The reason for the weak knowledge of the Estonian language of Russian children is elsewhere. The reason is that we do not have a well-thought - out learning system and do not have a sufficient number of teachers. Russian school does not prevent children from learning Estonian, but it could do better. I'll take extra time just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U91	Yeah, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U92	And here, the human aspect is also important. Based on the results of integration monitoring published in May this year, only 17% of Russian-speaking parents want their children to study at Estonian school. This week, Minister of Education Liina Kersna stressed in the media that more and more parents want their children to be educated in Estonian. Indeed, 17% is a completely considerable number, but it seems to me that this is a little inadequate for such victorious rhetoric. Nor did the Honorable Minister mention that a large number of Russian-speaking parents want their children to study in their own language. And let it be said that the vast majority of them prefer the preservation of Russian-language education in one form or another. We have a democratic society, we are ready to protect minorities. Why, then, do we not want to hear the voice of the Russian people? A quarter of the Estonian population are Russian-speaking people and they have a legal right today to decide on matters relating to the language of instruction for children. And that's fair. Year after year, we have been intimidated that the Russians, who do not speak Estonian, live in the Russian media and information space and pose a threat to the security of the Estonian state. It is claimed that the transition to education in Estonian would help to solve this problem. Unfortunately, that is not the case. About ten years ago, Professor Marju Lauristin noted that the most critical of the Estonian state is those Russian-speaking young people who speak very good Estonian. On the contrary, these people are very patriotic, whose ability to speak the Estonian language cannot be said to be acceptable in any way. Clearly, language skills do not contribute to loyalty. On Monday, the Riigikogu once again discussed the topic of the transition to education in Estonian. The main pain of its supporters was that why the transition has not yet taken place, and again there was talk of some kind of society's readiness, without taking account of the results of integration monitoring. Ladies and gentlemen, We should not confuse our desire and the willingness of others. At the same time, most of the supporters of the transition are categorically opposed to Estonian and Russian children studying together at one school. So that's integration. Nelson Mandela fought against such integration in another country during my childhood. 30 years have passed since Estonia regained independence. This is a long enough time for a mid-term review of education policy. To begin with, we must recognise that the current language learning solutions for Russian schools have not produced results. We must systematically approach language learning and ensure a sufficient number of qualified Estonian teachers. Today we must gather the courage to admit that Russian school is not a threat to the Estonian state and Estonian identity, while Russian school is a competitive advantage for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U93	Thank you. And now let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the problem committee on the development of Estonian language learning to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U94	In favour of 19, there are no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U95	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Language learning, Estonian language learning is undoubtedly very important for the Estonian state and therefore my sincere thanks to today's waitresses. We have now really heard some of the analysis behind this development, and also from our good colleagues, it is as if they have been able to take stock of different angles and say that everyone should look in the mirror. However, I do not want to debate how much someone should look in the mirror, but I would still wonder how we could finally go now. It has been said that it is as if the attack has been launched so that by 2035 we will have an education in Estonian. And it's called a sudden attack! I'm sorry, this is a serious, sudden attack that I think I should be worried about. Here we have reason to look southward, towards the Latvians of our good neighbours, and to think how they have managed to carry out these sudden attacks in such a way that during this academic year they will pass on to Latvian education, but we still have a plan. There is undoubtedly one and perhaps the most compelling problem here is motivation. Of course, we have been short of money, perhaps not all the textbooks or dictionaries, as we have understood, or the dictionarys have somehow been made so that there is no curfew, etc., etc., but in my opinion the main problem has been the motivation and motivation to agree and to do this in this Chamber as well. Education in Estonian should actually give our people the opportunity to do well in society. They should be able to orient themselves well in Estonian culture. And this will certainly help them to embrace the identity of Estonia. And when we think about it, it is actually a matter of national security, literally. And, I'd say, it's a real shame that this sudden attack has never been able to be done before to find that motivation. And if we can't find it, in 2035 people will come back here and say: maybe by 2050, a beautiful round number, well, we could still cross. Otherwise, suddenly we're hurting somebody, maybe no one can master chemistry well enough, or in singing lessons, somehow they'll forget the words. Or, let's say, Estonian children, too, find the acquisition of the Estonian language somewhat problematic. No, we have to take this step, and actually there's this sudden attack that I'm starting to like the word, you know, at a much faster rate than by 2035. If we don't start today, we're really not going anywhere. I'll bring it down a little bit on the side of motivation. Indeed, language learning and all education, of course, is a lifelong process, but when we look at young people... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U96	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U97	... then [must] say that our home has a very important role to play. We need to think about how we can make our homes support children who are not from an Estonian-speaking family whose home is not in Estonian. It's very important, and it was good to hear that it was meant to be. But being a long-term head of government, I can't even tell you what it's behind. You can still hear people complaining that homes can't provide enough support. But maybe the key role is, if the Riigikogu should now provide this political framework, the municipalities will have no motivation, and if the local governments do not have any motivation, this is not going anywhere. I've told you in this hall, and it's actually appropriate to repeat it again. In Kohila parish we went to a school in Estonian. I shut down a Russian-speaking school. We've been discussing this for a year, and we've made a decision, and we've gone over. Do you think it was easy? We did not have any special support; we did not receive any special support from the state. True, later the immersion came, some opportunities had to be made in kindergartens so that there would be one teacher for eight groups of kindergartens. For 160 children! But we thought it was important, we had a motivation, and we did it. And today, too, there will be children whose parents do not speak Estonian and their children do not speak Estonian at all. He needs to be put to the test, he needs work, he needs to be taught, he needs to be supported. And it can be done. But if there is indeed a headmaster, as we have heard, who is probably celebrating the 25th anniversary this year, when he has been instructed that his Estonian language does not meet the requirements. 25 years! This, of course, also describes the state's attitude or the attitude of the municipality to this issue. This is a worrying question, of course. In this respect, my appeal, ladies and gentlemen, is to all of you. Language skills, language learning, this is part of our national security and must be taken as seriously as any component of our national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U98	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Margit Sutrop.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U99	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am very pleased about today's conference, because these presentations certainly helped both the Riigikogu and the entire Estonian society to understand what the problem is. It seems to me that some conflicting presentations led us to think that perhaps it is not just a question of language learning. In my opinion, although this is the biggest problem, all Estonian children must study in Estonian-language school, just as the Estonian language development plan 2035 sets its objective and is confirmed by the educational development plan in order to acquire Estonian state identity. In fact, language learning is one of the tools for all Estonian children to be able to participate in working life and social life after equal opportunities, go to university, get a good education, get a better, happier life through their own self-realization. But the most important thing for national security is that they acquire national identity. Therefore, I am not really sure whether the model of the co-educating school, which may have been supported most by Estonia 200, seems to be supported by the Social Democratic Party, actually sees it as important that the Estonian language in this school can indeed lead to the state identity and the position of the Estonian language in this co-educated school must be assured, because it is provided for by our constitution. It seems to me that a social agreement for the transition to an Estonian-language school and perhaps also a political agreement has been concluded, and indeed we should no longer ask why, but we must ask how. And it is not just a technical issue; it is not just a 'conciliation' in some detail, but it is an inherent issue. This is a fundamental question of how to ensure, on the one hand, such a constitutional order to stand up for the preservation and development of the Estonian language, culture and nationality, and, on the other hand, how to bring Estonian language learning to all those who are not Estonian. It could be said that the Central Party Ministry of Education and Research put emphasis on teaching the Estonian language in Russian-speaking educational institutions and certainly did very important things. There are already 150 Estonian teachers in kindergartens and 43 schools. In addition, 30 schools and 70 kindergartens participate in language immersion programmes, these are important things and should be continued. But indeed, they have not yet produced the results that we hope that the knowledge of the Estonian language will improve very much for our children. Maybe it'll take a while, but especially for kindergartens, I'm sure that time will come someday. This is a good start and it needs to be continued. The question is why not all these measures so far have led to the result that teaching Estonian in Russian-speaking schools, as well as teaching Estonian in the society of foreigners, would have produced the results that we all expect. I think the answer is indeed what Professor Birute Glass said nicely, that it is not just about teachers, teaching materials or teaching methods; it is also about motivation. We can say exactly that Estonian children did not learn Russian because they had no motivation. We cannot turn a blind eye to the background of the occupation or to the fact that our neighbour is quite hostile to Estonia's independence, which still keeps the fire going. This means that this is actually a question of motivation, and the more we can protect the Estonian language and teach the Estonian language to our people when we have created this opportunity in educational institutions in Estonian. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U100	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U101	Today, as our Minister for Education and Science, Liina Kersna, has said, parents themselves are carrying out reforms for which we may not have had political courage. And today we have heard very vividly that the Estonian school is in trouble. That is why today's Ministry of Education and Research has made it a priority to support Estonian-language schools, because parents are drumming on their doors and wanting to bring their children there, having realised that it actually gives their children a better future and a better way forward. The Estonian-language school must now be helped. And that's what's happening right now. At present, 23 schools and 1493 students receive support in order to acquire Estonian language better and to ensure that these schools are not in trouble. I agree with Tiiu Moon, that this is not enough, and we certainly would like this support to be greater. And the trouble with the Estonian-language school must be helped not only by supporting teachers and creating motivation packages, as well as the proposals made by the University of Tartu to this committee, but also by supporting specialists who would help children in schools. But I do not agree with Tiiu Kuurm that these schools should close their doors until these children have acquired Estonian. No one should be excluded from this school, rather we need to see how these schools can cope. Today, on the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Research, our government will also be sure to announce that 5 million will be allocated for the transition to Estonian-language school. And indeed, we very much look forward to the results that the special committee at the Ministry of Education and Research is going to say where these funds will be put. I hope that it will be put on the things that have been brought out by our waitresses in this Chamber today. I very much agree that the most important things are school leaders, and the national accreditation of school leaders can be a key issue. Municipalities should not prevent the transition to Estonian-language school. Lasnamäe State Gymnasium 2027 is too late, we could bring it forward. This is extremely important. Preparing teachers for Estonian-language schools - yes, agree again with Birute Klaas, that this actually means that all teachers must be prepared to teach children in other languages; each teacher is a language teacher. This requires training, further training and methodological tools for these teachers to help them. The teaching tools are a key issue. I know the Ministry of Education and Research is putting a great deal of emphasis on this, but I very much hope that these instruments will really help. Creating motivation packages for Estonian-language schools and teachers, as well as support specialists, to help these children, with more than 10% of them already in other languages, is extremely important. And in addition to the RITA-project, the last sentence of one of the results was that in fact could help teams with training. You can't take over these schools by yourself. He's got to have a whole team. And I also agree with the view that parents are the key question here today that they are not afraid to put their children in an Estonian-language school, that they can support them and that they will change their mindset and be happy that their children learn good Estonian. Reach out to all of us and hope that we can work together to achieve what is really the social and political agreement in the form of the Estonian language development plan and the objectives set out in the educational development plan. It can be up to us to take off the PGS and also to look at the very good suggestion of the failing comprehensive school ♪ how many Estonian languages should be in the primary school. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much, all of you, and your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U102	Thank you very much. Thank you. I now ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Mikhail Lotman. Eight minutes, maybe? Let's see, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U103	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests, professors! If we look at the talks that we have devoted here to education in Estonian, we might think that whether this education is in such excellent condition or vice versa, the situation is catastrophic. I think that the situation is neither catastrophic nor excellent. It cannot be said that nothing has been achieved in 30 years. Yes, it is. Some progress is noted, but unfortunately not enough. What saddens me in these discussions, as well as in the draft laws, is that we are looking for some sort of magical instrument that will solve all the problems immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe this is a surprise for you, but I am deeply convinced that people are different and have a different ability to learn languages and a different ability to learn at all. What suits some is not suitable for others. My Russian colleagues here have started with autobiographical remarks, and I promise myself a few of these. I have never studied Estonian before in university. We did not have Estonian at Russian school. The Estonian language teacher did not speak Estonian; he read Lutsu "Spring" in Russian and it was our deep learning. However, I would be insincere if I said I hadn't studied anywhere. As a child, I was in three languages at all, and Estonian was one of my native languages. After I drove to Leningrad for half a year, I was banished there when I came back, I knew the Russian accent that made me mock the children of the neighboring courtyard, and then for a decade, or even more, I did not dare speak Estonian at all. I still have that accent. Here is a myth that our colleague Stalnukhin is very active in presenting. This is a myth about the extraordinary difficulty of the Estonian language. I have to say that Estonian is the easiest of the languages that I know to some extent, and it is much easier than Russian. I have a lecture in Estonian that is much easier in some ways, and I would rather do so than in Russian or English. The term "natural phonology" exists in linguistics; in this sense, the pronunciation of Estonian is much more natural than in Russian, English or German. And when I speak Russian more, I just get tired of the articulation machine much faster than I do when I speak Estonian. There are only two difficult things in Estonian. One's prosodics and intonation. You can't learn that. Even the excellent colleague Odines speaks with a Russian accent on the road you want. You can't get rid of it, but it won't kill you. Still, I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U104	Yeah, I felt it myself. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U105	It has to do with my other problem. As you've noticed, my speech gets entangled, I have speech defects. I have dyslexia, dysgraphy in a light form in all languages. That's why I write very slowly, I have to check every word. And I also have this defect, about which there is no word in Estonian. In Russian, the terms "zaikanije" and "zapinanije" are distinguished. I've got the other one, I'm not stuttering, but I've got a entangled speech, and that's why I'm never gonna be able to finish up in the rulement. But I have experience as a parent, a grandparent, I have five children and 12 grandchildren, plus I have taught at the university I can't remember for many decades and I say that people are very different, including children from one family. Some learn three or four languages, no problem at all. The other is that when she learns another language, difficulties arise in her mother tongue. I have such great students. Advanced parents put them in Estonian school and they are very talented people, both in England and the Netherlands have developed their careers very well. But the result was that they were people without a native language; they knew neither Russian nor Estonian. Or rather, in both languages they expressed themselves somehow, but that's not exactly it. So, what do I want to say? We must start moving boldly and resolutely towards the Estonian-language school, but this approach must be differentiated, different in different counties, perhaps different in different families, etc. Here I have heard such a statement that the Estonian language can be taught excellently in Estonian lessons and that there is no need for physics in Estonian, for example. But I think that a full language develops in all areas, and if we want the Russians of Estonia to speak Estonian, they must also be able to think in Estonian in the field of chemistry and physics. I have big problems because I'm not really at home in philosophy terminology in Estonian. I studied mathematics in Russian and often think mathematically, but I find it difficult to formulate my knowledge in Estonian, the terms do not quite overlap. So, what do I want to say? Some of the problems are quite serious, but this does not mean that we should not deal with them, and the aim must still be that by 2035 all graduates living in Estonia and related to Estonia would be excellent language skills. I specifically called Mr. Odinets so he could argue with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U106	Thank you. And he is taking this opportunity, so now the rejoinder is from the floor. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it was mentioned, and I would still like to take care of this accent. There should be no reproach for me or Mikhail or anyone else having an accent. We should be proud of all those people, including ourselves, who have mastered the Estonian language, and we should set an example for many young people in Russian-speaking schools or schools with Estonian-speaking languages. Very often, the use of the Estonian language is entangled by the fear that people will laugh or make reproaches or somehow judge the use of the Estonian language, faults or accents. We should talk more about it, that it is okay, when you talk with mistakes, it is not a problem when you talk with an accent, we, on the contrary, respect and recognise the proficiency of the Estonian language. The less we speak about the accent, the more we actually motivate to learn Estonian. And not only young people and children, but actually adults who are even more afraid of mistakes or accents. So let us try to talk less about the accent, talk less about the accent and motivate people to use Estonian more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U108	Thank you very much. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U109	Thank you, good Chairman! Dear colleagues, who are in the hall, in your offices, and who will look after this extremely important discussion later! Of course, teachers and all the critics! That's why I came to the end, that maybe the critics will be a little dull. Speaking of accents, yes, we sometimes imagine that we have an extremely monstrous accent. In 2015 we went to Ukraine, Lviv, and we knew that it was not advisable to speak Russian. We didn't know any other language. And then we asked and we were told that, uh, don't worry, you have such a strong Baltic accent in you to tell me how you want it. I am not a teacher, so I cannot give such pedagogical counsel. I'm an anti-polyglot, so I can't get my tongues on. Although the first Russian word I learned was "fascist" when I was a child in Lasnamägi. I learned German, it was over the rocks and stumps, I was still dragging in three ways, I guess in Russian I also stayed for summer work in the tenth grade. At the university, I studied French for four semesters, i.e. de facto I am a high-level French holder or, say, de jure, but de facto I can only say je m'appelle Tarmo and maybe a few more things. When I started to study English intensively, the teacher tried and tried, tried and tried. I said that you understand, I don't understand at all what the base is and what it was said in English and what those words mean. I can make you numb. But I've made it numb. I've actually made it numb just because I've had an interest, an insane interest in music. Radiomafia from Finland was this, and then perhaps Finnish television, from which I learned Finnish. In very difficult situations in Finland in the very late hours of the evening, it was extremely difficult for me to make it clear that I was not from Helsinki, because they all said that I had Helsinki slang on, but it was all from Radiomafia. Why should we talk about a common language space? What matters to me is that from time to time we know the words and we don't. We have also spoken here about this sign language, are we not, whether there must be Estonian sign language or international sign language? Questionable. After all, we want it to be in Estonian, but at some point it was translated so that everyone went to English, it was easier to understand than Estonian. Although I believe that this matter should be discussed in Estonian. The fact that we have 14 decs may be difficult. But we, Estonians, are making fun of the fact that there are more. Well, for example, there's a surprising and no-spoken twist. At this point, I would not like to cite these examples. They're not good. And jokes, anecdotes, these are all the things I like. In the Russian working groups, and especially in the police detention stations, I learned Russian because of the police and other thugs. And then we are told that it is not possible to translate these juicy Russian anecdotes into Estonian. Yes, it is. At the same time, for example, it is not possible to translate many Estonian-language things into other languages. I recalled that which is the most polite of them, and the most polite thing is that they call the Art Museum: "Hello, can we call Mona Lisa on the phone? Can't, Mona Lisa's on the ground. " At one time in the 1990's, I was surprisingly watching some "Learn Estonian" show early in the morning. And I remembered one fact: Raimond Valgre has used 1200 Estonian words in his songs. And generally very intelligent people who speak Estonian use 600 or 800 words on a daily basis. This actually shows how many of these adjectives we have left, I am speaking from an Estonian perspective. And now I'm going to make a little bit of a concession... I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U110	Yeah, you got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U111	Thanks! From this common cultural space or how to do these things, I remember that Aivar Pohlak once reported on such a good result that now the trainings of the Estonian team are held in Estonian. Which means that players actually communicate with each other. And I'll be honest with you, soccer connects. No matter where you're admitted to a foreign club, if you've been bought there, you'll have to learn the language, you'll do it in the evening hours or late hours. At times, however, I cannot understand, for example, the opposition of the Central Party to support for learning in Estonian in the city of Tallinn. 2005 was when Nikolai Stelmach presented such a bill to teach Estonian for free. I didn't understand why you struggled for the others, but pretty quickly I saw this bill voted down. What is happening is that the Estonian language learning groups will be fulfilled extremely quickly. And the birdie's on the list. In two months, there'll actually be a teacher and one student who's still there. I recall that since my German was so poor, my grandmother directed me to German courses. They were advanced. I needed to be helped. We learned a poem every time, sang, rattled. It was complicated. I lasted four months. I quit. Well, I wasn't advanced, but I wanted to. So it's music that's been a pull-up force for me. I've wanted to understand all these lyrics, even though I know for most people it's completely irrelevant to what's being sung about. And that's how I've been looking and translating. What happened to Russian was that I was in eighth grade and I got some work from Kropotkin, a great anarchist, in the old Russian alphabet, and everything, and that's what I was going through. After I finished half the book, I asked the Russian teacher that I could not wait to discuss anarchy here. He said it was an agricultural work. Kropotkin was also a well-known geographer and promoter of agriculture. But stupid and persistent, as I am. We need to find the moment when a person needs that language. Now I am really interested in what the english bands sing about and in Russian as well as in other languages, thanks to the Internet. I've even made some other language sometimes so I can just figure out what we're talking about, because it actually changes the content of the song. Let's just say that if a man sings a song, but the same text is sung by a woman, its content is actually changing. Just like I said, there is "pal" and "wage," "mul" and "mulk" in Estonian. So it doesn't happen like one joke where two men meet at the river. They're making their own hand signals. The first one goes home and says that I saw an arrogant man, it showed me that I would take your head off. I mean, what now, eyes out. He says, "I'm gonna hit the box." I say, I'll drown the creek. But the other one says I'm going to the river and I'm going to ask the man, "Who are you?" He says, goat. I say, what kind of goat? "Royal goat."
ParlaMint-EE_2021-09-23_U112	Thank you. Good colleagues, no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Now I would like to begin by thanking the problem committee on the development of Estonian language for this initiative. I would like to thank Tiiu Kuurme, Associate Professor of Educational Sciences at the Tallinn University Institute of Education, as well as Birute Klaas-Lang, Professor of Estonian at the University of Tartu. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee, all the members of the Riigikogu who have asked who has spoken. Thank you. That concludes the debate and our agenda is exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you.
