ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers! Let's start the May 5th briefing. Today's Question Hour is attended by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna and Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets. Dear members of the Riigikogu, we carry out a presence check. Check-in!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U2	35 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 66 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U3	In today's Question Time, each questioner has two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to answer the question, and since there are ten registered questions, let us make it clear that there is one specific and one supplementary question for each question. Question one. It has been presented by Helle-Moonika Helme and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. The subject is lying to members of the Riigikogu. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U4	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! A few weeks ago, while answering questions right here in Question Time, you said that the police planned their own demonstration activities. Chief of Police Elmar Vaher has assured us that they relied on a threat assessment by the Kapo, which allegedly warned against the threat to constitutional order. You have talked about the Health Board's threat assessment, while the Director-General of the Health Board sent it to our group for reading and said that it was not a risk assessment, but a normal description of the situation. Elmar Vaher has also said that in connection with the demonstrations, a crisis headquarters or working group was formed, consisting of the Director General of the Special Branch, the Director General of the Health Board, himself, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Health and Labour, the Chairman of the Riigikogu and you as Prime Minister. We now know that the Head of the Health Board did not participate in this working group on a permanent basis. He met with us and confirmed it. We also had the opportunity to familiarise ourselves with the Kapo threat assessment, which we cannot comment on in detail, but in which there is no warning that demonstrations would threaten constitutional order. Here's the question. If you claimed that the police were acting on their own and you were not aware of it and did not approve the actions, but, as Mr Vaher said, you were involved in the work of the crisis headquarters, there is only one conclusion that can be drawn from this: either you are lying or the Director General of the PB. Elmar Vaher also said that you, as Prime Minister, were aware of the police's plan to derail the Riigikogu-premiere square. This was already planned on 7 April, but in connection with your presentation of the White Paper, it was postponed for a day. At the same time, you claimed, and Jüri Ratas claimed, that you didn't know anything about the whole thing. It has now become clear that you all knew about this in advance. It has become apparent that Parliament has been lied to. Why have you repeatedly shattered and why has Elmar Vaher repeatedly lied to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U5	Thank you. A procedural question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U6	I'm a little in trouble or confused. We usually have the number of the question and the name of the answerer, the Prime Minister or the minister, and then we can put our specific or supplementary question in order. But what happened now is that people signed up before they checked in and stayed there. I would like to ask that we do what we normally do, that we clear this order, and then when the response procedure comes, everyone can register at their own speed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U7	Thank you. It's certain that speed is important. But I think that's exactly what you're describing. At least that's the way it has to be. I also saw that several members of the Riigikogu had already registered, but we had not even gone to the first question. When the first question came up on the screen, I think that's where the speed came from. I believe that was technically the case. Now, please answer... I'm sorry! A procedural question, Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U8	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Now I don't want to say that Martin Helme is lying. I guess he just didn't notice. In fact, it was exactly as you described that people signed up before the question appeared on the board. I was not among them, but at the very moment when it was announced that the first question was now for Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, I was able to tear myself by and register with my very fast fingers, so everything was exactly the rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U9	We took note of this procedural information about your reaction rate. Now let's get to the answer. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U10	Thank you. Glad to see you are happy to return to the same topics after a week without sitting in the Riigikogu. First of all, I never said I didn't know about police operations. Of course, the police gave me reports, they gave me reviews every day, so I never said that. What I said was that I didn't make those decisions. These decisions are made by the police on the basis of their own threat assessment, and they have done so. I've always talked about the police threat assessment, I haven't talked about the Health Board threat assessment. The health authority evaluates the risk in the context of infection, and this is probably why they also cooperate with the police. All the police did in these demonstrations was remind people of the rules agreed upon, and the Health Board, in cooperation with the police, also checked [detention] to ensure that the virus did not spread. So it's clear that I didn't say anything like that about that. Of course I knew things. As far as the crisis headquarters are concerned, when we are talking about the entire crisis headquarters, of course, the Prime Minister and the government have managed this crisis, including. Those people you mentioned, I don't know what emergency command this is, but we were among those who received this information when the police explained what they were planning, what their threat assessments are, how they're going to behave. We, of course, received this information, and no one ever claimed that we wouldn't have received that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U11	Thank you. Mart Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U12	Mr. President! Since you have been vaccinated, I have a suggestion for you: you are no longer infectious, take off the mask, you can hear better.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U13	Thank you very much for this proposal. Let's keep going. The first question to be specified, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U14	Thank you. Very good! When you were informed, as you now claimed, you also ordered the involvement of police dogs and riot police and force structures. And if you didn't give the orders, we don't have civilian control, which is another bigger problem, but okay. Let us remind you that you spoke, in fact you justified the behaviour of police structures in a specific way, referring to the health department's threat assessment. We know that this was not an absolutely justified reference. The Vaher and Jaani have strongly relied on the Kapo's threat assessment, according to which they said there was a threat to constitutional order. I do not know whether you have come to know it or whether you continue to talk about what they have told you, but it certainly did not support such measures and a demonstration of power against a peaceful nation. Once again, all this timeline of actions, justifications and justifications is full of lying, wrestling, covering each other up, covering up lies, and it's just embarrassing. All the more so because you have done so both for the public and for members of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu. When Kert Kingo resigned, you made a terrible ruckus right here in the Riigikogu on the subject that a lying politician cannot continue as a minister. Now the question: can a lying politician continue as Prime Minister and a lying official continue as Director-General of the Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U15	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U16	Thank you. But you still haven't been able to prove exactly what I've been lying about. You're saying that, but you're saying that when I was aware, I gave orders. What? Listen to yourselves! If there's a briefing, then I gave the order. It's still not quite right. Try to stay within the facts. The police have the competence and the right to respond to threats according to the needs of the particular emergency situation and the purpose of the police in this demonstration was to ensure that people participate in a public meeting in accordance with the rules for preventing the spread of infection. In carrying out this task, the Police and Border Guard Board also provided official support to the Health Board and, of course, the Health Board's threat assessments are linked to the prevention of the spread of this infectious disease. The police's threat assessments relate to the way these demonstrators behaved and the dangers associated with them. So in that sense, it's completely incomprehensible to what you're accusing me of. By the way, when Kert Kingo [returned], the quote we used was Martin Helme's quote, where he said that there was no place in lying politics, and such a person must leave. However, it has been used differently [quote]. Someone could shoot Mrs. Helmet while I'm talking. He's such a good actor. However, you have not used the same standards for all ministers. But once again, the police were based on their own threat assessment, and I think it was very competent. I absolutely agree with 92% of the Estonian people who trust the activities of the police. And the police had a very difficult task. Their task was to ensure that this demonstration would take place peacefully, and I think they explained, explained and explained once again, even though the opposite party had a great deal of provocation, with your help as well, but they did this work very thoroughly and calmly. So thank the police very much for this!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U17	Now, one more question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U18	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! First of all, I would, of course, like to confirm your response to Helle-Moonika Helme on who spoke about Kert Kingo and about lying and lying as a phenomenon which has no place in politics. Indeed, the author of this quote is Martin Helme. This does not mean, of course, that we do not share this view, but copyright must still belong to the right person. I do not even want to repeat what I have said here several times about how this police operation took place here and whether making death threats to members of the Riigikogu is a threat to constitutional order or not. I think it is. These peaceful demonstrations, as they are described here, made death threats to members of the Riigikogu, including me. I was threatened to be eliminated. They actually tried to push in from the gate when the car crashed into the courtyard, and the gate is known to be closing for quite a long time. So there were danger assessments and danger pictures that could be discussed and could be the basis for the police's response. But my question to you, Prime Minister, is this. It must be a hundred days since your government took office. We know how those hundred days have gone. I think you've done very well, but I would like to ask your assessment of what you think will happen in the next hundred days. What happens to vaccination, what happens to a pandemic? How's summer gonna look? Please share this vision with us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U19	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U20	Thank you for that question. We're working hard to speed up the vaccination. Unfortunately, this is not always within our power. We're working on getting more vaccine doses, but it hasn't been very successful so far. These vaccines we have, we want to inject quickly, both to protect people and so that we can keep the whole society open. By now, we've vaccinated nearly 400,000 people. This gives us a very strong hope that in the summer we will not have the infected numbers rising and that we can keep society open. As for the 100 days of government, indeed, our government began in a very difficult time, in the midst of a crisis, and we had to cope with the management and resolution of the crisis in addition to the tasks of a hundred days. Positively, the incidence of infection has decreased significantly. For this I am sure thank you very much to all the Estonian people who have respected the restrictions! Now we are also gradually moving forward with the reduction of restrictions. New reliefs came into effect from that week, but I will put everyone's heart to use these reliefs responsibly so that we can move forward with the next reliefs and open society as a whole. But in the big picture, in addition to the COVID, we have more steps to take for a digital turn and what we are doing to make a green turn. There are different steps that we will take to move forward with education in Estonian. There is a great deal of these issues in different ministerial areas. The Government's willingness to cooperate is very good and I hope that we can make decisions that may not always be popular, but are necessary for the advancement of Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U22	Let us move on to the second question posed by Helir-Valdor Seeder, which is answered by Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets. The subject is the foreign policy of the government. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U23	Thank you. My question concerns one of the major priorities of the government's foreign policy, on which we have also presented an inquiry to the Prime Minister, and we hope to see him respond shortly to this question. The question concerns the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border treaty. As Minister of Foreign Affairs before the Riigikogu, you have said that Estonia should unilaterally take the initiative and move forward with the process of ratifying this Treaty. You have discussed this, according to our information, and you have also proposed it to your colleague, the Russian Foreign Minister. My question first is whether it is your personal position as Minister of Foreign Affairs or whether it is the initiative and position of the Centre Party or whether it is a common foreign policy priority for the whole government. Secondly, is the current time when Russia has occupied Crimea and part of Eastern Ukraine, where human rights continue not to be guaranteed in Russia, opposition leaders are persecuted, Navalny is in prison, the European Union is imposing sanctions against Russia, diplomats are being expelled, and this also concerns relations between Estonia and Russia, suitable for the ratification process to proceed? In response to your initiative, Russia announced that they would not send their delegation to the Finno-Ugric Congress, which should take place in Tartu. The second part of the question is whether the time for such initiatives is at all appropriate and whether, as a country, we will not lose credibility, credibility and dignity if we go out with such an initiative in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U24	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U25	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for raising this important issue. Indeed, on 16 February, when I introduced to the Riigikogu the foreign policy priorities of today's government, I also noted that today's government is prepared to proceed with the border agreement. I stressed, and I have also stressed following this presentation, that Estonia considers it important that the ratification of the border treaty takes place in parallel with the ratification of the border treaty in the parliaments. So here, I do not think it is possible to treat it so that Estonia is prepared to proceed unilaterally with this agreement. As far as timing is concerned, I presented in my presentation the priorities and readiness of foreign policy to move forward with it, and this is more broadly about how today's government saw the foreign policy issues forward. When we talk about relations with Russia, Russia's relations with the West have indeed deteriorated, and they have certainly deteriorated for over ten years now. We may therefore ask when it is a good time to ratify the Estonian-Russian border treaty, which has already been signed in 2015 or rather signed in 2015. For Estonia, it is certainly important from the security point of view that the Estonian border is ratified and clear. When we talk about security and the issues you raised, Estonia has been extremely consistent and clear on all the issues you mentioned. Estonia has explicitly condemned the annexation of Crimea, Estonia has expressed concerns about serious violations of human rights in Russia, Estonia has joined the European Union's sanctions and given them its bilateral priority, so that on these issues Estonia has been principled and continues its policy to date.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U26	Now for a more specific question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U27	Thank you. I would like to clarify your answer first. As far as I know, the Estonian-Russian border agreement was signed for the second time in 2014, not in 2015. But now for this consistent policy, I have a very specific question. Let me remind you of history. During the discussion of the border treaty in the Riigikogu in June 2005, an amendment was introduced to the draft ratification law on the proposal of the Fatherland with a reference to the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty. The fact that it was necessary was, by the way, the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice at the time. It is noteworthy that in the end, all the political groups in the Riigikogu agreed to this amendment. This was the 2005 agreement. The mention of the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia irritated Russia in such a way that Russia withdrew its signature from the border agreement and failed to enforce it. For the second time, the Estonian-Russian border agreement was signed on 18 February 2014, but the draft law on ratification of the border agreement already submitted to the Riigikogu no longer included a reference to the legal continuity of Estonia and the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty. This is not where I read the consistency of the activities of the Estonian side. My question now is to you that, since you said that moving forward with ratification of the border treaty is a common priority for the government, which treaty has the government decided to proceed with ratification? With what was originally signed in 2005 and where there was a very clear reference to Estonia's legal continuity and the Tartu Peace Treaty, or with the 2014 Treaty, where there is no such reference, in a situation where Russia has consistently denied it? Please, please tell me that you have discussed the position of the current government in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U28	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U29	Thank you very much, too, for this clarification. The Estonian Government has proposed to proceed with the agreement signed in 2014 and to ratify it in parallel in the parliaments. For Estonia, of course, independence is based on the Tartu Peace Treaty and this principle does not change. However, as far as the border agreement is concerned, according to the paragraphs of the Estonian Constitution adopted in 1992, the Estonian border is set by the Tartu Peace Treaty and other agreements. In such a legal framework, progress with ratification of the border agreement is also appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U30	Now, one more question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U31	Thank you. I made it this time. Of course, for Estonia, the Tartu Peace Treaty is the basis of our statehood and it will not change, but the problem is not that it is for us. The problem is that Russia is not, and in principle they are categorically and very clearly communicating that they do not agree with such an interpretation, and has rejected earlier attempts to include such a reference in their official documents. So, in principle, Russia does not agree to recognise us as a consistent country, and nevertheless, under the leadership of today's government, we are prepared to give up our territory and, together with our territory, to give up our continuity, that is to say, tacitly agree to Russia's interpretation. It is this policy, which is detrimental to the Constitution and which is detrimental to statehood, to which we are pointing out here, but it is the policy of today's government. § 122 of the Constitution states what is the border of Estonia, and if this new border agreement to be concluded departs from it, there is no way to ratify this border agreement without amending § 122 of the Constitution. Perhaps ratification alone is not enough, it must also change the constitution. It should be so clear and so simple that there is no argument here, it should not be. But the key question at this point is that we could, in 2005, before 2004 when we entered NATO, believe that we needed a border because it would strengthen our security. After the war in Georgia, after the war in Ukraine, after the bronze events, after everything that has happened, there has been no clear argument as to how our continuity and the surrender of territory will contribute to our security in relations with a country that does not respect international relations. I would still like an answer to that question. How does that help us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U32	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U33	Hi! Oh, I'm sorry! Thank you, too, for this question. First of all, relations between Estonia and Russia. Estonia has a comprehensive treaty on mutual recognition with Russia in 1991, whose ratification also recognises the sovereignty enshrined in the Tartu Peace Treaty, so we have Russia's recognition on this issue. The border agreement is another issue that needs separate ratification, since at that time, in 1991, it was agreed that the issue of the border agreement would be resolved by negotiation and that these negotiations did indeed reach a culmination for the first time in 2005 and for the second time in 2014, when efforts were made to achieve the establishment of a border line with this long-term negotiated agreement. As regards the low level of bilateral relations and, at the same time, the ratification of the border line, it is certainly important in this matter that Estonia has a border firmly fixed and ratified and recognised by both countries. We are talking about exactly the same border line that was already built by the Minister of the Interior of the previous government. Thus, the construction of this border line has begun today, but it would be very good if it had also been ratified and ratified on a contractual basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U34	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U35	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by Riigikogu member Jaak Juske and is answered by the member of the government Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna. The subject is funding education. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U36	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. It is regrettable, if not scandalous, that the government led by the Reform Party has started budget cuts at the expense of children, more precisely at the expense of cutting support for youth and children's interest education. With regard to this decision to seriously increase inequality, I have the following questions for you. First of all, why did the government start budget cuts at the expense of the children? Besides, it is also a decision that increases the inequality of families with children. Why was such a choice made? The second question is how the Government of the Republic plans to ensure the involvement of young people and children who, so far, have been able to go to the circle of interest through this support measure, which is now being cut off? And the third question is that you have said that this cut was necessary to ensure a 3% increase in the pay of teachers. Please tell me, how do you look at teachers and say that their raise comes at the expense of children and young people? How?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U37	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U38	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good questioner! Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I'd love to try to explain. Firstly, the organisation of an interest education is by law the task of the local government and I must commend the local authorities. They have taken this task very seriously. Local authorities contribute 165 million euros [per year] to supporting children's and young people's recreational education and activities, as well as youth work and sport, for example, according to data from previous years. If only children's and young people's recreational education and activities and child sport are taken out of it, this amount is over 100 million. Since 2017, the State has provided its support in addition to the local government's contribution, in particular with two objectives. Firstly, to improve the diversity of interest groups and, on the other hand, to improve the availability to which you referred. Looking at the use of this money, more than 60% of this money has gone to diversifying the circles of interest, and slightly more than 11% of this money has gone to improve access. If we look at more data, the number of applicants has decreased every year. Both the number of hobbies and the number of municipalities that have applied for support have decreased. I would stress that the state will not take away this support, but we will reduce this support because it has been shown that local authorities are doing well in organising [circles of interest] and that the tax base of local authorities will also increase in the coming years. For example, the tax base will increase by over 60 million next year. So I believe that this debate, too, has shown to local authorities how important it is to support the education and activity of interest, and because their budgets are increasing, I believe that all these activities, which have been initiated, piloted with the support of the state and which have proven themselves, can continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U39	Dear Jaak Juske, now it is your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U40	Madam Minister! It is elementary that if the state and government are planning such an important budget cut, it must also be negotiated with the local governments in advance. This has not been done by the government, and so there is a very high risk that hundreds of young people will miss the new year without a chance to go to the circle of interest. My second question concerns the pay of teachers. Indeed, the government has announced that teachers' pay will increase slightly by 3% next year. This is certainly better than the decision that has been made so far that has frozen teachers' salaries. At the same time, we have a social agreement, according to which the average wage of teachers was to be 120% of the national average wage as early as last year, and this social agreement has also been incorporated into the lifelong learning strategy. Today, the average wage of teachers is clearly well behind the average wage in the country, and at this rate it is, unfortunately, increasing. I ask for a clear answer to what all the teachers are waiting for. When does a government led by the Reform Party plan to deliver on a promise to teachers? In particular, what year is the average wage for teachers 120% of the average wage in the country? When?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U41	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U42	[[Remote connection]] First of all, I would like to say on the subject that, in fact, this state support has been used by local authorities on a very different scale. We have local authorities, such as the Keila City Government, who contribute so much themselves that state support is only 2% of the total contribution to the education and activity of interest. In general, on average, this state support is around 9% of the local government's contribution, and each year the local government's own contribution has increased. But the teacher's salary. It is true that the salaries of teachers did not increase this year, while the average wage rose, and now it is much more difficult to tell the difference. If we now raise the salary by 3%, it actually means that we can keep [teachers' pay] at the same level as the average wage. If we were to raise 5%, we would get 102% compared to Estonia's average wage. The Ministry of Education and Research asked for an increase in wages of EUR 100. It would have cost nearly 30 million, namely 29.6 million. And if we had moved from there to 2025, we almost got it 120%. But it is clear that at the moment, state budget resources do not allow progress to be made so quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U43	Now for an additional question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U44	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I come back to Mr Juske's first question, which concerns education of interest. I tell you the truth, I was very shocked when this news began to spread, and I honestly thought it was a joke in the corridors of the Riigikogu on 29 April, but it does not seem to be the case. Since I was involved in the development of this programme to support interest education, I worked at the Ministry of Culture at the time, the sadder I was to hear it. That's why I have to ask you in this focus, which I also asked you about on Monday when you answered one question. This concerns the involvement of stakeholders in this decision. You very much commended, in response to your inquiry, that in this three or four months at the Ministry of Education, you have built up a major engagement process, an unprecedented process of engagement. I asked you on Monday how and who and in what way you have involved in developing this decision to raise teachers' salaries at the expense of children's interest education, and you unfortunately did not answer my question. Either you didn't have time to answer or you had other thoughts on your mind. I take this opportunity to question: Madam Minister, with whom have you spoken in your excellent engagement process on this subject? What was the reaction, and what was your response to this reaction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U45	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U46	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. Firstly, I certainly have not argued that I have created a new system of involvement in the Ministry of Education and Research. That's not what I said when I answered the question. I just said that I have met with the representatives of the associations twice in three months and that our meetings have been very constructive, but the good practice of inclusion was, of course, in the ministry before me. These decisions concerning the national budget strategy were to be taken within a very limited period of time, and I really did not have the opportunity to consult outside my house and the Education and Youth Office on this issue. But for today, yes, I have received many appeals on this subject. For example, it has been pointed out that this €7.25 million could in particular support the circles of interest in natural and precision sciences, which are currently in the role of orphans. The circles of interest are too few. Certainly we are now discussing how to target the available money as accurately as possible. I think, among other things, that this money could also be used to provide wage support for teachers in recreational education. At present, of this 14,25 million, the salaries of teachers in recreational education have been used in the order of 3 million and a little bit. I think that this money could be used for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U47	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U48	Let us move on to the fourth question posed by Riigikogu member Martin Helme. Prime Minister Kallas answers this and the question is about the RES, about the country's budgetary strategy. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U49	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! I will say at the end of the previous question and of our conversation about lying: yes, those are my words that lying does not fit in politics. This is the standard that we have set ourselves and that we demand from others. We've been lied to a ton of people here. We have been lied to by the Director General of the Police Department, the Minister of the Interior, and we believe that you have lied to us about this, too, and we will not leave it that way. But I'm coming to the subject of the RES that I'm asking you about. The government confirmed this important document. This is the worst document ever from the last 10 or 11 years. This will reduce defence investments in a situation where we have the most difficult security situation, at least in this century, it will increase taxes that will hurt our transport sector, the agricultural sector, the production sector through diesel excise duty and the increase in gas excise duty. This hits the pocket of ordinary people, hits the competitiveness of Estonian national economy. It hits 140,000 people who have bought a home. It hits 146000 children when we're talking about an interest education. And most frustrating, it absolutely does not take into account the wider economic and financial context that is taking place in the world. What is ridiculous about all this is that, as the government does, it is falsely justified as if the previous Minister of Finance or the previous government had left some huge disadvantage. Minus came first during the pandemic, and that's what you're causing. But all these steps, which are awfully damaging to our regional policy and to the well-being of people and the economy in general, are actually also hitting on your goal that you want to improve the budget. These tax increases damage the budget receipts because they damage the Estonian economy. When will you know that you are dealing with economic and monetary policies that harm us all?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U50	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U51	With the National Budget Strategy 2022 has 2025, we finance all the various activities and programmes of the government and, more generally, of the general government, especially the most priority areas. Under the current agreement, certain sectors and their wage increases fall under the most priority areas. We're talking about internal security, teachers, cultural workers. We are investing strongly in Estonia's future. Never before has so much invested in the Estonian economy. We will also do so with the support of euro money. Over the next four years, more than 8 billion euros will be invested in the Estonian economy, which is more than ever. But we really do clean up public finances. Understandably, in the context of the COVID crisis, all countries have provided additional support to their citizens and businesses, but from the outset it was meant as a temporary measure and cannot continue. But I do not agree with what you are saying that it is as if minus had occurred during the crisis. You know very well, as former Minister of Finance, that this minus has not come about during the crisis. If you also read the decisions of the Board, they will draw attention to this. In this previous country's budget strategy, there was a billion bluff cuts that were not furnished with anything. Now the tax burden. You say the tax burden is rising, but that is not true. According to the previous RES, the tax burden was 35%, and according to the current RES, it will be 33%, so that the tax burden will actually decrease. This RES also provides for an average pension income tax exemption to come from next year, as well as an increase in pensions. There are investments in different areas. When we talk about children and families, these benefits are actually growing. The education and youth programme will go more than EUR 500 million each year in the next four years and the Social Ministry's Children and Families programme will receive EUR 818 million, which is when the amount will increase again next year. So I absolutely disagree with your attack. With this country's budgetary strategy, we not only do good things, but we also do state order so that Estonia is better kept.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U52	Now, the question to be specified. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U53	Thank you. Yes, of course, as former Minister of Finance, I know that out of this 13 or 14 billion you can take out countless fine things you can do with money, and that is what you have done here. I also know that the tax burden we have heard here, as a percentage just now, is calculated depending on what the ratio of GDP to the tax to be collected is. If GDP grows and it grows because of the prudent and good economic policy of the previous government, one of which was to stimulate the economy through tax cuts, then the tax burden will fall because we are collecting less money. I don't understand internal security investments. As far as I've read it, internal security funds are actually cut by more than 6 million. So what kind of increase are you talking about? Well, we all understand that manipulation is happening again. The fact that, together with GDP, tax receipts are also increasing and, as a result, certain indexed costs are increasing is not the result of government policy, but is essentially the budget on autopilot. But I'd like to come back to those tax increases. We had a year ago reduced excise duties on gas, electricity and diesel with a very clear aim of bringing refueling back to Estonia, improving the competitiveness of Estonian entrepreneurs and reducing prices in Estonia. All this did and did on a larger scale and better than any forecast said. Today, you have put a forecast on the table, which says that consumption will continue to increase by more than 4% after a heavy tax increase next year, and that there will be an increase in tax receipts. How can you justify these numbers to yourself if we have a template for the previous order, where the tax receipts actually decreased as a result of the heavy tax increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U54	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U55	I will start by saying that really the economic forecast is going to be 2.5% growth this year and that 4.8% growth will be expected in the coming years. That is why we must also get our finances in better order, because in those years, when the economy is difficult, the economy must be countercyclically stimulated, and this has been done in the past. Now, coming to your question, concerning excise duties, the price difference for diesel was established by the previous government. And as you yourself know, since you were carrying it, it was originally planned with the so-called sunset clause, so all these excise cuts were planned temporarily and had to rise back in May 2022. As the crisis begins to subside, your reasoning is probably based on this promise, which is also seen in the Riigikogu's verbatim reports, that when the economy recovers, these taxes must be raised to the same level. This price increase forecast, made for diesel, is based on a change in the rate of excise duty and a global oil price forecast, which is lower than in 2021 in 2022. Since you agreed that the excise duty cut you did was temporary, and you explained that if the economy is growing enough and there was more than 2%, these excise duties must be raised to the same level as before. Our new coalition has agreed a tax truce. We are not concerned with the laws concerning excise duties on taxes as a whole. We are not even doing what you promised in the previous coalition: to increase these excise duties even if growth is at least 2%. It's 2.5% now. I quote Aivar Kokka, who said that we have very clearly agreed that these [excises] will go down for two years, and if the economy already rises by at least 2%, we will come back to excise duties and then some increase will be made. We're not doing this. If growth is 2.5%, we will not increase these excise duties, as you requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U56	Now, one more question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U57	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Returning to these excise duties, it is, of course, good to hear that the decisions of the previous government are mandatory for you. But you're always saying that we might have started changing these [decisions]. You're always saying that we wanted us to have raised [excises] back somewhere, but maybe we would have moved on. You don't know that. But let's go to practical life. People sometimes find it difficult to understand these national budgets or RES numbers. But they know [the resulting decisions] of their own accord. You also reduced our internal security in the RES by cutting 7 million under the administration of the Ministry of Home Affairs. It mostly came from the PBA, and that means about 200 policemen's wages. Does this mean that the police no longer devote their resources to carrying out certain procedural procedures, for example, they no longer deliberately deal with car crashes? On Monday, a member of your coalition partner's group deliberately hit a man in front of the Riigikogu. It's been fixed in a public video, and it's been through the news. It's an elementary violation of the Penal Code. [The Penal Code] states that the deliberate hazard of committing another person is punishable as a criminal offence by up to three years imprisonment. However, the police did not initiate the procedure. Was it, in a sense, an opening to what we will see every day when the RES cuts reach the area of our internal security and security?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U58	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U59	First of all, perhaps I will explain to you that the country's budgetary strategy is a different document than the state budget. The country's budget strategy will be agreed by the government for four years. It sets priorities and a large picture of the various areas, which concerns four years. The state budget is a specific document that will also be approved by the Riigikogu. As far as these potential austerity points are concerned, each ministry decides for itself where it will find these austerity points. The aim has been to bring together operational costs and, as far as I know, the ministries have not yet stated with certainty and agreed where these austerity points are. If you have more knowledge about the fact that you are so confident that savings will come from there and be done exactly that way, then you will probably have more information than the Minister of the Interior who is responsible for this area. In the government, however, I would rather listen to the Minister of the Interior, who comes up with measures in his field. Diesel fuel, however, I will come back to it, as you somehow linked it to [other topics] again. I can rely on what you yourself have said about this. Your government agreed that excise duties would rise to the same level by May 2022. The quote I said was from Aivar Kokka, who was also chairman of the Monetary Commission, who represented the coalition and said that you had agreed that these [excises] would go down for two years and, if economic growth was above 2%, you would raise the excise duty. We're not doing this. We will not raise [excise] as you planned next year to increase the excise duty on diesel. We are not going to do that, but since we have agreed on a tax truce, we will stick to the decision that you agreed in your government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U60	Thank you. Mart Helme has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U61	I'd like to go through the procedure. It is not the decisions of the previous government that are at issue here, but the decisions of the current government, and we are asking the Prime Minister about the decisions of the current government, not about the decisions of the previous government. If he is unable to communicate with his ministers and the heads of office to find out what they have also announced through the public media, please do not blame the questioner in this Chamber of Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U62	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U63	Let us move on to the fifth question, which Riigikogu member Raivo Tamm asks, is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is the budgetary strategy of the state. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U64	[[Remote connection]] Hello, as our Foreign Minister said! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I believe that the government must be honest in its decisions and explanations, and this is particularly important in areas concerning Estonia's security. Under the leadership of the Fatherland, the previous government agreed on a budget strategy for the state, which made the security of the Estonian state one of the priorities. However, the RES approved by your government cuts planned costs to national defence in 2022, 2023 and 2024 by around EUR 20 million per year. In the Committee on National Defence, we were assured that the Defence Forces would therefore be forced to seek austerity points, and Lieutenant General Martin Herem, the Commander of the Defence Forces, has publicly stated that the RES you approved, has fewer resources for defence than the four-year plan of the Defence Forces. Yet you and Secretary of Defense Kalle Laane are saying that defence costs will not be cut. Why are you misleading the public? If Estonia's security is not a priority for your government, then you could say it honestly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U65	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U66	Thank you. I agree with you that the defence capabilities of Estonia, the defence of Estonia, must be strong and exactly as you produce, in the current security situation in the world, the independent defence capabilities, together with our allies, are very important to us. We have committed ourselves to NATO that we will invest at least 2% of gross domestic product in defence costs and that defence costs will be at least 2% of gross domestic product in the next four years, plus the costs of accepting allies. I believe it is worth being proud of, because there are ten such countries in NATO and Estonia is one of those countries. In 2022, the country's budget strategy for defence costs is estimated at EUR 704.9 million, and this year it will be EUR 645 million, or 704 million versus 645 million. Defence costs continue to be 2%. In addition, we are making strategic investments in defence capabilities, plus a defence investment programme and also host country support. The level of defence expenditure is increasing, but the defence budget is looking for savings in the same way. If we have as much money as we have, we can do with that money the things we can do with that money. We can't live long enough. Yesterday was a very good meeting with the Commander of the Defence Forces, [where we discussed] how to find austerity points, and he said that there were really places to save, so that our defence capabilities would not deteriorate in any way. The Ministry of Defence, together with the Defence Forces, is reviewing the development plans proposed in the National Defence Development Plan submitted to the government, and the places where savings are sought are those that have the lowest possible impact on Estonia's security.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U67	Specific question, Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U68	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It is noted that about eight months ago Kalle Laanet wrote that a reduction in defence costs would give our allies and our eastern neighbour a signal that defence is not a priority of the Estonian Government. He stressed that the international situation did not even allow us to think about reducing defence spending. I would like you to give a clear answer. Do you think that the international security situation for Estonia has become much safer over the last eight months, that you decided to cut state spending precisely in the field of defence? What should our allies think of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U69	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U70	First of all, I will start with the fact that the state cannot live long enough. We can't spend more than we have revenue. There are two ways to do this: either we cut costs or we increase revenues by asking people for more taxes. These are the choices that need to be made. The family budget is also impossible to survive for a long time, just as it is. If we are looking for these austerity points, we are looking for them in all areas, including the defence area, where there are actually activities that maybe can be done more effectively. What else are we looking for? We are looking for the synergies that are in the hands of public authorities or ministries. There are activities that are carried out by different ministries, but which actually have exactly the same purpose. As I said, I would emphasise that defence costs will not fall below 2% of gross domestic product. We keep these commitments, we have a defence investment programme, and we also have the costs of the host country. In my opinion, no area should be such that we are not looking for austerity points there if there are a whole series of activities that have nothing to do with making our security worse. That was confirmed to me yesterday by the Commander of the Defence Forces. So I will not see a threat if we continue with this 2% gross domestic product commitment, which we have and which is indeed very large. As I said, only ten countries in NATO, including Estonia, fulfil this obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U71	Now for an additional question. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! First of all, I have to say that if the questioner speaks very eagerly about honesty, it is a bit grotesque to hear from the representative of the Fatherland party, thinking of the news of the domestic elections in this party over the last few weeks. But now we'd go to this defence capacity and the country's budget strategy. Last weekend, I ended up debating the state budget strategy with Martin Helme on Sunday during TV3's "Seven News" week. Well, Martin used exactly the same arguments as in the previous question. I was hoping that I was able to put some sense into her by sending her there, and that she realized that she was wrong and that there were actually 800 million cuts in the country's budget strategy last year and that it actually built paper tigers for the future, that money was not real, but it was on paper and it sounded very proud that all our capabilities were going to rise enormously, including defence capabilities. But it wasn't really money. My question to you is, how do you judge, which is more important in terms of our defence ability and strengthening it, is it that we build air castles and break relations with our allies, calling our biggest ally a corrupt scumbag of the newly elected president, or is it better if we really contribute 2%, as we have agreed, we have good relations with our allies, and by doing so we increase security considerably more than simply by raging and empty promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U73	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U74	Yes, you are very right when you say that the specific items of the current RES and then the new RES are not comparable, because the current RES was written with almost EUR 1 billion of unfurnished cuts. The Board also drew attention to this. Such financial magic gave the opportunity to show these numbers more beautiful than they really were, without making any politically painful decisions. Who is interested in this subject in more detail can read [the law]. On page 137 of the budgetary strategy of the current RES, or the previous government, it is all set out, the uncovered promises are well written, albeit in hidden form, but can be read from it. Now, coming to these defence expenditures, I agree with you exactly that it is very important that we keep it at 2%. These are real investments that we do to strengthen our defence capabilities, to maintain our defence capabilities, as well as defence investments, the defence investment programme, as well as the reception costs for allies. So what is important is that we do these things in essence, that we keep our promises before our allies, and that we are also a reliable partner to our allies in that we keep our country in order and do not survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U75	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U76	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by Eduard Odines, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Prime Minister. The issue is the choices of the country's budgetary strategy. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U77	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! In addition to being an effective educational measure, the [support for hobby education] has actually been and hopefully will continue to be an effective regional measure. It has helped a large number of local governments outside Tallinn to develop, support, open new circles of interest, make the field of interest education and activities more diverse and accessible. The municipalities with a lower income base have been able to afford more than so far, thanks to this prima facie educational measure, but in fact also to a regional measure. The Minister of Education, answering Jaak Juske's question, surprised us with the logic that developing an interest education is the task of the local government, and the local government should see for itself how it can do so, and it is as if it is necessary to reduce the money, if not to take away everything. Let them see how they can manage their recreational education and activities. My question is about the choices of the country's budgetary strategy. Following the Minister of Education's logic, who's next? Local authorities have quite a lot of tasks. [Does the following be the case], for example, the cessation of support for the [supporting] of public libraries or the cessation of support for school children's food or local roads or the cessation of support for public transport? What is the next area in which you say that this is the task of the local government and that the local government can manage itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U78	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U79	Thank you. Firstly, the income of local governments has increased during this crisis due to exceptional state subsidies. This year it will be EUR 2.42 billion. The local authorities' revenues this year have increased both the EUR 16 million support fund from the additional budget and EUR 30 million from investments, and revenue is expected to increase in 2023. If you look at next year, local governments' incomes are projected to be EUR 2.42 billion, as I said, and incomes will increase 3.5% in 2023, 1.8% in 2024 and 3.5% in 2025. After all, it is true that organising youth work, including recreational education, is the responsibility of the local government. The state still supports recreational education with EUR 7.25 million and, if you look at the amounts that local authorities generally receive, they actually get more money. It's just a question of what the local government is using this money for. You pointed out in your question that local authorities are very different and have very different opportunities. This is true, and that is why this support for recreational education may have been unfair in some ways. It has not reached those who need it more, the local authorities, where there are more needy families who really need this support to organise an interest education. Let me give you an example. In 2021, the city of Tallinn became the largest part of this recreational education support. 9% of all this support went to the city of Tallinn. The city of Tallinn finances municipal interest education of 6.99 million euros, including this state subsidy of 1.286 million. If we now look at where the children are, the children are in private education. 20000 children participate in private interest education and are supported by the City of Tallinn with EUR 200000. 10000 children from Tallinn participate in municipal interest education and are supported, as I said, with 6.99 million euros. In fact, this example shows that this support may not go at all to those children who really need an education of interest, and therefore... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, we can still talk about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U80	Now, one more question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would like to come back to the costs of defence, because the issue is broader and concerns the country's budgetary strategy. You've clinged to this stamp at 2% of GDP. It is not a question of 2%. It is a question of deepening the international situation. I recommend reading not only the Estonian press, but I also recommend reading other press publications, including those from Russia. We are really in a very sharp international situation and talk here all the time like a memorized poem of 2% is not going to get us anywhere. This is about real protection and the rapid, decisive and understandable extent of real deterrence. And that is not what we see in this budget strategy. We see a point in this budget strategy. We have fulfilled our obligation to our allies, but we do not have a significant increase in the level of our own defence capabilities, the real strengthening of our defence capabilities, the strengthening of our deterrents. Is this a conscious policy of this government? Is that Russia's order or what it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U82	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U83	Thank you. Your attack on this subject, I do not think it is necessary, which is why I say that defence investments have always been very important to the governments we manage, and we have brought this matter to the fore even if no one considered it to be important at all at 2%. We have made investments and demonstrated by our actions that we are strengthening Estonia's defence capabilities. The state budget strategy and the state budget are not one of the bottomless purses. Estonia's defence capabilities are weakened in the same way if we have unsolved tensions in society and we have to take money away from areas that also need this money. However, these choices must be made. At the moment, I am saying that Estonia's defence capabilities will not be weakened in any way. Our priority is certainly to keep Estonia's defence capabilities strong in this security situation, and we will keep this line.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U84	The question to be specified. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! From defence costs back to education costs and then to the costs of recreational education. Of course, you also have a very interesting logic that we are now going to deal with taking half of the state's support from the rest of Estonia. Perhaps here we should look at the distribution mechanism, for example, but if we start making state budget decisions aimed at local governments based on how well or badly the city of Tallinn is doing, then we can reach the right decisions very quickly. Let me remind you that we also support libraries, public transport, local roads, primary school children's food, teacher training costs and other things. The city of Tallinn is certainly not even the average of Harju, let alone the Estonian average. But I will come back to the money that comes from the state budget, which you are currently cutting by EUR 7 million under the leadership of the Reform Party Minister. In the context of the state budget, in the context of our debts, which the Estonian state has, this is a tiny amount. If I quote correctly from your interview with Rainbow Radio yesterday, you said something like that, it's not enough money to make such a big fuss about it. I'm sorry if the quote isn't accurate. I think that 7 million euros for children's recreational education, for small Estonian municipalities, but also for larger municipalities whose income base does not allow it, it is quite a lot of money. How did you come to this position in the government, and have you discussed how many families and children are affected by this, who are now losing interest in education and activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U86	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U87	Thank you. This is not about children and families, because this money was meant for local governments and, as I said, the money going to local governments is increasing and it is free, it has nothing to do with a specific sign. This means that the local authority can decide for itself what its priorities are. Whether it is his or her priority to support children's recreational education, child-related activities and youth work or whether his or her priority is elsewhere. We have a municipal election coming up in the autumn and, in fact, people can tell their municipalities very clearly what are the priorities for which they want this money to be used. When people say that this priority is an education of interest, firstly, public money of EUR 7.25 million is earmarked for this and, in addition, all the money that goes to local authorities that went to local authorities within the framework of an additional budget and will continue to go to the RES. People can express their will. Local authorities can decide to use this money in this way. At the moment, they have the freedom to decide on the use of this money. It is not a grant that goes directly to people or children, but it is a grant that is intended for the local government, and the local government decides. Yes, I agree with you that it may not be good to set an example for everyone, because Tallinn is just so special and much, much bigger. But these examples can also be found in the Ministry of Education and Research from other municipalities, where the use of this support may not have been fair. Now, what's the purpose? The aim is that we also use the support that is provided by the state, purposelessly, as the Minister of Education and Science said. We want more circles about science. That's where we're lagging behind. First, [the aim is] that this support should be better targeted at the municipalities that need it more, where there are more needy families, and, secondly, that this [support] should also be targeted at [specific] activities, just as these plans are in the big picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U88	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U89	Let us move on to the next question, Question 7. Asks member of the Riigikogu Mart Helme, answers member of the Government of the Republic, Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimets. The subject is allies. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Over the years, Estonia has considered it very important to maintain allied relations in the military field, but also in the political field and, of course, in the diplomatic field, and that is why we have been very enthusiastic about very different military operations. I'd say these military operations have failed. Iraq's war failed, there is no democracy in Iraq, there is no single country in Iraq. We will leave Afghanistan in a defeated army after 20 years. We can give some other examples, such as our enthusiastic participation in the colonial war in the Republic of Mali, if you could call it the Republic. All of these are essentially military participations at avantual level, which are always justified by the need to maintain allied relations, so that the allies come to our aid when we face a critical situation. However, we do not treat countries such as Hungary and Poland as allies. The President of the Republic has just been, or maybe is still, in the Republic of Poland. I looked at a joint press conference last night, where the Polish President very irritatedly rejected all accusations of undemocratic manifestations in the Republic of Poland. Estonia, however, has taken up the camp of active prosecutors in Poland and Hungary, and we accuse these two countries, which are very important to us and very close to us, of violating democratic procedures and standards. Do you not see a contradiction here that, on the one hand, we are enthusiastic about participating in avanthistic wars and, on the other hand, we are criticising those countries that are vitally interested in maintaining our independence in a really dangerous situation and could actually help us?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U91	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U92	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you very much for this very important theme setting. Allied relations are extremely important to Estonia. One of the objectives of Estonia's foreign policy and security policy after regaining independence was undoubtedly to become a NATO Member State. Since 2004, we are a member of NATO and we have NATO troops. Being part of NATO is the foundation of Estonia's security. Allied relations are important for Estonia and important for all NATO Member States. I was pleased to host the Hungarian Foreign Minister the day before yesterday, and we discussed a number of issues about how we work together in NATO. Indeed, it was very pleased to see the Estonian President just now in Poland, where strong allies were equally confirmed. NATO, Poland and Hungary, but indeed, Poland in particular is a very important partner for us on the eastern wing of NATO. Poland has a number of important initiatives where we work together to ensure the security of our region. With regard to the rule of law in the countries you referred to, indeed, we have seen concerns here and the European Union has a format of dialogue in which the strengthening of the rule of law between the Member States of the European Union is being discussed. There are a number of additional mechanisms, as well as the creation of a report on the rule of law, in which Estonia presented its progress on the rule of law in autumn last year. It is certainly important in the European Union to ensure, in a uniform way, that we defend the values and principles for which the Union has been created and for which we are engaged and which we are also engaged in defending the value area in NATO, also defending our transnational relations, and that we jointly promote them in the European Union. As regards Estonia's participation in NATO missions in the military operations that you have referred to, which have been undertaken in order to destroy the terrorist scenes and thereby ensure greater security in our region, they have been justified and relevant, and undoubtedly it has also been important for Estonia to strengthen allied relations.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U93	Specific question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U94	Well, I didn't get a lot of new information, apart from Estonia being a NATO member since 2004. As far as these military operations are concerned, you should understand, as a diplomat, that the introduction of democracy into these countries has resulted in a massive mass migration from these countries. Afghans, Iraqis, Syrians, very many other people in the Middle East and African countries have started because of these conflicts, in which our allies and, in some cases, Estonia are taking part, moving towards Europe and bringing terrorism to us. They have brought terrorism to Europe, so I do not know what we have achieved here. We have not achieved stability in these countries, but we have achieved greater instability in Europe. Thank you for such an excellent achievement in allied relations. But from what you're saying, I still get the impression that we're dividing our allies into A, B and maybe C allies. On the one hand, there are countries that we will never criticise. Never criticize! We do not dare to take the fall for criticism that electoral fraud occurred in the United States, obviously and now, as proven during the presidential elections. That's not what we're dealing with. However, we are dealing with Poland, where the Soviet judicial system is being abolished, and we call it a violation of the principles of the rule of law. We do not dare to touch on Spain, where it is quite obvious that, in the context of Catalonia, there are prisoners of conscience, but we dare to criticise Hungary, where the Hungarian Government stands up for its national interests. How do you view such a hypocritical and multi-level foreign policy as a principled implementation of value policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U95	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U96	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for the specific questions. I'll start with the first part of the question. Indeed, in order to ensure peace and stability in a country, it is also very important how civil society is built up and, of course, the key to these issues is the state itself. In this context, Estonia attaches great importance to Afghanistan, for example, to the successful conclusion of the peace process between the Afghan authorities and the Taliban and, when the Allied forces leave Afghanistan, to the continuation of civil society support through development aid projects in civil society so that Afghans can live in their own country and have no reason to leave their country, so that there is no migration to Europe. As far as migration flows are concerned, this is a separate policy that Estonia, in cooperation with other partners of the European Union, will naturally deal with. There are a number of mechanisms in Europe that seek to ensure that people have the best chance of living in their home country and thus also try to stop migratory flows towards Europe. Of course, it is a matter of concern to us that there have been acts of terrorism on European soil, but they are also dealt with by the competent authorities. For Estonia, all the allies are important. That is what I have already emphasised in my first reply. Of course, Europe's security is guaranteed when there are strong transatlantic relations. Strong transatlantic relations are based on very good cooperation with the United States. With regard to respect for the principles of the rule of law, democracy and the protection and promotion of human rights, in this context, Estonia still makes it very clear that compliance with them is protected and promoted in all countries, and if there is a need, it also raises this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U97	And now one further question, sorry, procedural question. Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U98	Yeah, it's really procedural. Leo Kunnas asked me to present to you as a gift his book War 2023, which consists of two parts: 'Three' and 'David', so that you would look at his vision in the context of our security policy, appreciate it and perhaps transfer it to our foreign policy practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U99	Good fellow Mart Helme! It's a handy grab of a microphone, not a procedural question. But let's keep going. Additional question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U100	[[Remote connection]] I actually have a procedural question first, if I may.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U101	Yeah. First of all, please, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U102	The procedural question is that I would like to hand over to Mart Helme the book "Call me or Satan tomorrow" written by Mihkel Raud. It describes human relationships, how to make friends, and how to get rid of friends. It would be useful...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U103	Dear Valdo Randpere! If you want to hand over the book to your co-worker, you'll be working in an institution and you can do it. This is not a procedural question, just as Mart Helme's question was not procedural either. But let's get to your substantive question. It's an additional question. Valdo Randpere, you have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U104	Thank you. So I'm gonna have to ask for a little more time. I wanted to ask because I have also been very concerned about allied relations in recent years. I wanted to ask your assessment, good Minister of Foreign Affairs. Is it when a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia calls our biggest ally a corrupt scumbag of the newly elected President of the United States, or when a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia humiliates the Prime Minister of Finland and calls him a salesgirl, or if a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia recommends his people, the people of Estonia, to run Sweden because he does not like the private choices of these people, or if a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia praises the President of Russia for his pharmacist skills, or if a member of the Riigikogu initiates, promises or threatens to initiate a support group in the Riigikogu to leave the European Union? And if they do not, who can order such speeches and initiatives and who could like them? I don't like them, and I don't think the people of Estonia like them, and our allies, I say, I don't think they like them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U105	Eva-Maria Liimets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U106	Thank you very much for these reminders and for this question. The area of allied relations is extremely important. Allied relations are extremely important to Estonia and it is important to Estonia that Estonia is never alone again. To the questions that you have raised, I believe only one answer is that in these relations, both in allied relations and in relations between people, it is very important that we communicate, that our use of words is dignified and respectful of the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U107	Thank you. I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U108	Let's move on to question eight. It is presented by Üllar Saaremäe, the Minister of Education and Research, Liina Kersna, and its theme is access to education of interest. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U109	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. My question essentially repeats Jaak Juske's question, but since the subject is burning and I believe that there are nuances about our issues that differ, I apologise if you have to answer these questions again. Do you personally consider it basically right that, in a situation where children's general education and education of interest has been hampered by a pandemic, access to recreational education will be further reduced next year? Did the cut-off decision be preceded by an impact assessment of young people and teachers of interest education? If so, what were the results of this analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U110	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U111	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Asker, for your question. I will say it once again: the local authorities, whose task is to organise activities of interest and education of interest, have done this very well in a large way. Local authorities have contributed more than EUR 100 million per year if we look at data from 2020, for example, activities of interest and education of interest. If you look at it from 2017, despite the support from the state, municipalities themselves have increased their contribution to recreational education and this is excellent. I believe that this debate, which has now been raised, also assures local authorities that they are on the right track, they have made the right choices, and this is a very important issue. That's what's very important, really. Looking at how much of this EUR 14 million has gone to pay for teachers in recreational education, it is about 3.5 million. At the same time, we know that the secondary growth of teachers in recreational education is just as critical as the secondary growth of teachers in general education schools. That is why I think that the money that remains, which is also a large amount, 7.25 million, we could also use more to pay for teachers in recreational education. But since your question was about access to hobby education, I looked at the data. In general, according to our Statistics Estonia, until the end of comprehensive school, people are very actively involved in activities of interest and education of interest. In terms of involving 16-year-olds and older, we are in better positions than Finland and Sweden, for example. If you look at the international survey on access to recreational education, Estonian children aged 8, 10 and 12 have said that 97% of Estonian children replied that they have sufficient resources for extracurricular activities and that they also have sufficient resources to deal with their hobbies. Here we are also in a category similar to Norway and Germany, for example. The PISA study has also shown that our children have relatively good access to recreational education. I hope I can continue to answer the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U112	The question to be specified. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, you can continue to answer the next question, because I am dealing with the same subject. You replied to Eduard Odines that, before you made the decision on the cut-off of interest education, you consulted representatives of the people involved, representative organisations and local authorities. But what do you think the regional side of this decision is? Yeah, richer parishes can handle it, but not everyone's that wealthy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U114	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U115	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. That's a good question. Indeed, the use of this money is extremely different in local governments. As I said earlier, on average around 9% of the total resources devoted to recreational education are coming from the state, the rest being put by the local government itself. For example, the City of Keila itself places nearly 600,000 in recreational education and activities, of which only 3% is state support. At the same time, for example, Rakvere City Government itself contributes nearly 700000 per year and the state support is slightly over 120,000, which means that it is 19% of the total money. However, according to the law, Rakvere municipality uses almost half of the state's resources to carry out the task of local government. Similarly, the pattern is similar, for example, between the city of Võru and the municipality of Võru. In Võru, the share of state support is only 12%, in Võru municipality 41%. For example, if you look at the use of this money, this money has also been used, for example, in such a way that all families who want to receive support have to apply and can go to one interest group for free. And no one asks if this family really needs this support and does it in any way contribute, for example, to this objective of diversification. At the same time, the adjoining local authority does not offer such insane support and, of course, it creates misunderstandings between the two local authorities, if not rubbing, because people are writing themselves into another municipality to receive this EUR 20 grant, and [that is] also those families who do not have practically objective reasons for receiving this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U116	Now for an additional question. Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Well, it is a pity of you, a good person you are, but that, in this way, by putting together a country's budget strategy, this axe is so painfully hitting these important educational areas and that it is your duty to try to explain it. Of course, it is clear that there are municipalities that prioritise matters relating to children and education more, and others do so less. Undoubtedly, it is nice to point out that they are so good and encourage them to be better. It is undoubtedly nice to tell voters that they can choose the wisest rulers in the next local elections. But the question is finally what? After all, these are all our Estonian children and the development of the child; his or her education should not depend on whether or not a particular rural municipality elder or council has given sufficient priority to education and youth work. As a result, we have created these appropriate measures by the state in order to correct these inequalities. Now one of these measures has been halved by an axe, which, of course, leads to an increase in inequality in the provision, quality and availability of education of interest, and that is very bad. You can't really justify this shit. As a result, I feel sorry for you. You say it's the task of a local government to watch and do better, to do better. Another area where the same logic can be pursued is that of kindergarten teachers, which is also the responsibility of local governments. There, at the time, the State, which was set up on my proposal in 2016, received a support measure to help with these salaries. This amount must have remained at the same level in this RES, with EUR 20 million in memory. My question is: how will the system of motivating kindergarten teachers work in the coming years? Do local governments have to find additional money themselves to raise salaries to 90% [of the minimum wage for teachers], or will you untie it and the pay of kindergarten teachers start to fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U118	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U119	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for your question. As far as I am concerned, this amount is 15 million, paid by the state to local authorities to level the pay of early childhood education teachers, so that it is at least 90% of the teachers' minimum wage. This amount has not been changed, we have not reduced, and it has not been reduced in any way today either, because it is important that early childhood education teachers also receive a salary comparable to the minimum wage for teachers, so that it is included in the RES.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U120	I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U121	Let us move on to question nine. It is presented by Jevgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Riigikogu, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is government policy. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am surprised not to ask you today about the inclusion of older people in vaccination, although it is true that the government did not achieve the target of 70+ at the end of last week at 70% [the vaccination rate]. It's about 60% by now. In this respect, there is undoubtedly the risk that, now that the level of infection goes up, we must once again impose severe restrictions, as the vaccination of the elderly has unfortunately not progressed as expected by the government. But I am asking about the country's budgetary strategy, continuing with a topic that has already been addressed here in terms of educational expenditure. Indeed, we have a situation in which, as a result of the last five-six years' efforts, both school teachers and kindergarten teachers' salaries have made good progress towards this 120% target, so the OECD has even confirmed that the wage growth of teachers in Estonia in recent years has been one of the fastest in OECD countries. Now you can see that you are actually offering teachers a break from that average salary. 3% [teachers' wages] versus almost 6% of the average wage in Estonia, so we are going to lose this head start again, or not the head start, but the improvement of the position for which so much effort has been made. Undoubtedly, in your time, you paraphrased Joe Biden very well, so don't talk about priorities, show your budget. Well, then I'm the one who opened your budget. You say that education is a high priority, but this country's budgetary strategy shows that the share of education expenditure in GDP will fall from 6% to 5% at the end of this RES, which is actually a lower level than it has been in any year since 2010. Why don't you make education a priority in financial terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U123	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U124	However, first of all, I must also respond to the introduction to vaccination. Indeed, we are in May and, by the end of April, we wanted to reach 70% by vaccination of the elderly. We didn't reach that level, although in 12 counties it's above that level. The problem is, of course, Ida-Virumaa and its low level, and Harju County, which is very large. If we look at numbers, these numbers, how much we're missing to meet the goal, aren't that big. In West Viru County, for example, we need to vaccinate another 87 people in order to achieve this goal. What's the problem? As you know very well, our healthcare system is very decentralised, and I think it is actually the strength of our system. This means that we really only allocated these vaccines to family doctors so that they could vaccinate older citizens. But it hasn't always been that all the vaccine has gone right there. Well, there are different reasons. Some were already full of that list. In my opinion, it is important that no vaccine should go bad, but that all vaccines should be used. After all, we still want to meet the objective of vaccinating the entire society to at least 70%. Your question concerned teachers' salaries and education investments. We need to look at the investments or money that we are channeling into education, not only in the context of the country's budgetary strategy, but also in fact we need to look at the euro funds that we have quite large amounts of money coming from, and from which investment and funds are also earmarked to go to education. What has been our great effort? A major effort has been that we invest 1% of GDP in R &amp; D. It hasn't been easy. And another effort: the current RES did not foresee any resources for teachers to raise their salaries. We did indeed make an effort to find these resources. Yeah, it's not much, but it's better than zero. I assure you that this effort has been quite difficult to find these resources for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U125	Specific question, Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U126	Thank you. Thank you! Keeping 1% of R &amp; D is undoubtedly important, there is no doubt about it, but on the other hand, looking at government spending by cost function, education is actually hitting the biggest drop in these four years: from 6% to 5%. This 6% has been an important measure. I remember when my predecessor, Jaak Aaviksoo, discussed this, that Estonia could spend more than 6% of its GDP on education, which is higher than the average level of the European Union, because we are a small nation and we have an education and offer more expensive on the one hand and, on the other, we still think that this is our real competitive advantage. Now we see that education is hitting the biggest drop in government functions. The share of the reduction in education expenditure in GDP is actually 20%. There are all sorts of reasons that you can see, so and so, and this is the task of the local government, but these aggregates, which are put together in statistical comparison, are not fooled. So far, almost all of the years since 2010 have been 6%, sometimes slightly less, now falling to five. My second question concerns other government policies in the field of the environment, namely the oil shale oil plant. You've also said yourself what to do, the old government has decided to do bad things, but there's no turning them back. As a result of the good work of Eesti Päevaleht, it has now become clear that it was actually possible to reverse it. On 26 January and a few weeks ago, only a few contracts had been concluded. It has now become apparent that, in the context of profitability, this is, to put it mildly, a dubious project, but the relevant analyses are not issued to the public. In this context, I would ask what is your assessment today of why we have not reversed this project. Point one. And have you been familiar with this cost-benefit analysis and take responsibility for the Estonian people that it is a profitable project?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U127	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U128	I will start with the first part of this question, i.e. education. Estonia contributes 6% of gross domestic product to education. That continues to be the case. I do not agree that you claim that it will decrease. We are in Europe with our top three investments, with the money we put into education. If we look at what you are very right to produce so that the salaries of Estonian teachers can be higher, the question is very much about what we are using the money for. For me, too, this balance could be more directed towards people and less towards houses. If you look at the whole history of investment, we really do have very beautiful school buildings when compared to another country, if you've been to schools, but maybe in the future we should watch more of how we can channel money more to people. Now, in addition to this country's budget strategy, there are also the euro tools that we use, whether to strengthen the learning of the Estonian language or to invest in it. Now the oil factory. The decision to make an investment in this oil plant, or rather a government decision to increase equity, was taken in March 2020. Indeed, as you rightly say, before this government, during the previous government. I believe that if the previous government had been clearer in its climate policy decisions, then perhaps the management of Eesti Energia would not have made such an investment decision either. When we took office, we looked into whether it could be reversed, but these investments were allegedly already made. The details concerning the procurement must be explained by the company's management. Indeed, I have not dealt with these procurements on a daily basis. This time frame, I've been asking for it, was supposed to be negotiated when the money was allocated. But what is our promise? Our promise is that we will not put taxpayers' money into this again. And the other half of your question whether it is cost-effective is the side that, when making these investment decisions, must be explained by the Management Board of Eesti Energia within the framework of the money allocated to them. We will certainly not invest more taxpayers' money in this oil factory.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U129	And now one more question. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U130	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. You certainly agree that cultural policy is directly covered by the topic 'government policy'. Theatre restrictions expire on 9 May and in the media there was information that further discussions would be held on 11 May. Now it is a warm-up question: what to do on May 10th? But I appeal to you on behalf of all the theatre leaders. According to government information, we're out of red with the virus. According to the Ministry of Culture's exit plan, we should therefore have open theatres, cinemas and concert halls. These are places where there is usually good ventilation, people sitting quietly and in masks. That's why the virus threat is low. There has been no known emergence of any infectious disease from sitting art in Estonia. Scientists, such as the many cited Berlin scientists, also say that the theatre is a low risk of infection. Good Prime Minister, please tell me when to stop banning the theatre. Why is it not allowed to enjoy culture in silence and mask in a situation where we are out of red in the fight against the virus and it is possible to scramble in shops? Why is culture treated as a highly dangerous area of life, and in a situation where both science and facts in Estonia show the opposite?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U131	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U132	Thank you. First, to the beginning of your question. Yesterday in the Cabinet, we essentially decided to extend all existing restrictions until 17 May. The formalisation of this decision will take place on Thursday. This is the answer to the question of what will happen on 10 May. Now, looking at this general situation, I know that, when you're alone, you can make the same reason for all the restrictions, that there are no fires. There are no fireplaces in the shops, there are no fireplaces in the restaurants, yet we have the virus spreading, and we have a number of people who don't know where they're infected. That's still a lot. We're walking on very fragile ice with these numbers and gauges, which is about the spread of the virus. We've done some relief since Monday, and we haven't seen their outcome yet. That is why we have intense discussions in the cabinet. I believe that you will agree with me that no one wants a situation where we need to be restricted in the summer, and that is why we want to get this level down as far as possible, because it is known that whatever we open up, even though there is no evidence of infection, this means that people are moving massively to one specific place, people's exposure to other people is increasing, and because this virus is spreading from person to person, it is likely that the virus will also spread when people gather more. Therefore, the level from which we are going to grow must be as low as possible so that we do not have to impose restrictions again. When we talk about the level of danger, we are indeed orange and that is where we arrived at the beginning of the week, when we actually came into force, but on 11 May, perhaps next Tuesday, we will discuss them again. If you ask me what I miss most about these restrictions, it is also a theatre and a concert I would like to go to. But right now I'm asking everyone to understand, so we can get this level down. We are trying very quickly to vaccinate as many people as possible, it also takes time to develop antibodies, so that we can then move on to the yellow threat level and from there to even green, where everything can be open.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U133	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your answers. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, thank you very much for your questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U134	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the Wednesday session of the 13th working week of session V. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, the current government has started budget cuts at the expense of children by halving youth care support. This is clearly a decision that increases social and regional inequalities. Since we have not received adequate and exhaustive answers from the members of the government on this subject, we are presenting with the Social Democrats an inquiry into the subject of education support to the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. We want to know why cuts are started at the expense of children. Has the government made specific calculations of how many children and teachers are affected by this decision? Has this cut-off decision been discussed with interested parties? How does the government intend to ensure that children who were able to engage in recreational activities with this support will be involved in recreational education in the future? For these questions, please answer. The request for information is submitted by electronic means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U136	Thank you! Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When we restored Estonia's national independence 30 years ago, we did so on the basis of legal continuity, and integration with international organisations, the open world, the UN, the European Union, NATO was also an important part of this. Where are we now 30 years later? We have come to the point that, on the initiative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who belongs to the Centre Party, we are prepared to abandon the idea of legal continuity, the EKRE has initiated the process of leaving the European Union and the Reform Party has initiated the process of leaving NATO. And we, eight members of the Isamaa Group, questioning the Minister of Defence Laantet, are precisely the latter, i.e. the departure from NATO. I would remind you that, as early as last year, the Reform Party Kaja Kallas and Kalle Laanet have tabled an amendment to the question of whether Estonia should leave NATO. Although this was followed by the Laanet statement, where he said that reducing national defence spending would give a clear signal that this is no longer a priority for the government, and that it is particularly irresponsible to give such messages, it has now been achieved that, within the framework of the RES, the incumbent government and the Minister of Defence have decided to reduce and significantly reduce defence spending. Our question is, what has changed now is that there is going to be a way to cut national defence spending. Has the international security situation become more favourable to us, or have some other changes taken place, and what cuts are actually being made in defence? What's going on? So we hope to get meaningful answers and hand over this inquiry in a conservative form in paper form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U138	We've accepted it. Kalle Grünthal, please! Excuse me, Mr. Grünthal! Mr. Ernitsa has a procedure first. Let's clarify what Mr. Ernitsa's concern is. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U139	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! I heard that the Reform Party has initiated the departure from NATO and my party has initiated the exit from the European Union. Do you want to shed some light on what documents have been received on the Riigikogu Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U140	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. Mr. Grünthal, please, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U141	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the last Sunday, our esteemed colleague Valdo Randpere, a Reform Party member on TV3, announced in a debate with one of the Fatherland ambassadors that I was supposed to be the dumbest person in the Riigikogu, and because of my foolishness he would not even welcome me anymore. Thank you very much, good Valdo, for drawing attention to such an important fact. That is why I am trying to improve the situation and to get smarter. Of course, I'm extremely embarrassed that I really am what the good Valdo described. And in order to get smarter, we decided with EKRE Ambassador Kert Kingo to submit an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior to find out what security threats are the double citizenship of senior state officials, including members of the Riigikogu. Paragraph 1 (2) of the Citizenship Act states that an Estonian citizen may not at the same time be a national of another state. But you, good Valdo, have Swedish citizenship in addition to Estonian citizenship. It is the fact that, in answer to the questions of the members of the Riigikogu, if a military conflict were hypothetically to arise between Estonia and Sweden, which country you would fight for, you thought for quite a while before answering, and then finally decided that Estonia would. As a remark, I add that you stopped welcoming me after I had revealed in this Chamber of Riigikogu the fact that Vladimir Pool's book, which speaks of the KGB in the Estonian SSR, has described where you went to take flowers to Lenin's memorial before you went to Sweden. So that's why we're asking. We want to know whether double citizenship is still allowed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U142	I have adopted three inquiries, and the Bureau will of course decide on their future proceedings in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Now it's time to carry out a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U143	93 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U144	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the draft law amending the Customs Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 311. We're in the middle of a third reading. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 311. Let's get to the preparation. Since we have just carried out a presence check, I hope it is okay for everyone if we go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 311. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U145	The bill was supported by 90 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U146	Our second item today is the draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities, the Accounting Act and the Securities and Markets Act 313 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The commission's proposal is for a final vote, but it is possible for the political groups to speak before the final vote. That's not what you want. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I will vote before you on the draft law amending the Audit Act, the Accounting Act and the Securities and Markets Act 313 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U147	The draft was supported by 86 members of the Riigikogu and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U148	Our third item is the second reading of the draft Law 352 on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Double Taxation Convention on Income and Capital Taxes between the Republic of Estonia and the Federal Republic of Germany, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, signed on 29 November 1996. I would like to ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since some time passed between the first and second readings, I will briefly remind you of the content and purpose of the draft. The purpose of this double taxation agreement is to encourage investments between the Contracting Parties. In order to achieve the objective, the agreement limits the income tax that the source country may impose on the income of residents of another country, ensures equal treatment of persons and eliminates possible double taxation. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading on two occasions: 20 April and 3 May. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, 21 April by the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 5 May, to conclude the second reading and to conclude the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U150	There are no questions for you. Thank you. As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is a final vote, but before we can speak in the negotiations. That's not what you want. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put a bill 352 before you for the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U151	The draft was supported by 76 members of the Riigikogu and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U152	Our fourth item on the agenda is the second reading of Bill 312 on the amendment of the Credit Institutions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The report shall be made by Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Reminder: the first reading of Bill 312 was completed by us on 18 February. The Commission discussed this draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting of 22 March, 13 April and 19 April. Representatives of the National Audit Office, the Financial Supervision Authority and Eesti Pank attended the meeting on 22 March and 13 April. At its meeting on 22 March and 13 and 19 April, representatives of the Ministry of Finance presented further proposals for amending the draft. At its meeting on 13 and 19 April, the Commission decided to table amendments and also adopted procedural decisions. A further reminder here, as the time has passed since the first reading, that the main objectives of the draft are to ensure and increase financial stability, in particular to ensure the credibility and transparency of the banking sector and to increase banks' resilience in stress and crisis situations, as well as to establish more proportionate requirements for credit institutions and to link them more closely to the risks taken by credit institutions. At the meeting of 19 April, the Commission made consensus decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the Riigikogu agenda for second reading by 5 May, the second reading to be stopped, and when the second reading of the draft is completed, the Commission's proposal for the draft to be placed on the Riigikogu agenda for third reading by 12 May. Now, but now I would also like to give an overview of the procedure of the Committee on Monetary Affairs between first and second readings. First of all, one amendment was tabled by the Riigikogu on the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 5 March, concerning the minimum size of the share capital of a credit institution. Then, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also asked for opinions from the National Audit Office, Eesti Pank, the Financial Supervision Authority and other institutions. Opinions were submitted by the National Audit Office, Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority. The European Central Bank also received an opinion on the draft in the meantime. The opinions of the National Audit Office and the Financial Supervision Authority concerned changes to the competence of the National Audit Office in carrying out economic control of the Financial Supervision Authority. Eesti Pank's opinion concerned in particular the amendment which provides for a reduction in the size of the share capital of the credit institution. As the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Finance addressed us with proposals to make changes to the draft. They approached us with three letters. The proposals submitted on 5 April concerned the competence of the National Audit Office in carrying out economic control of the Financial Supervision Authority and technical changes to the draft. The proposals made by letter of 13 April concerned urgent amendments to the AML/CFT Act and to other acts. The proposals sent by letter of 19 April also concerned amendments to the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act and the Financial Supervision Authority Act. In this respect, I would also like to say that the commission took account of the amendment that came from the Riigikogu to remove from the draft a point which provides for a reduction in the minimum effects of the share capital of a credit institution. In addition, the commission made 24 other amendments, which are also included in the list of amendments. There are also explanations. The proposal to supplement the Financial Supervision Authority Act with regard to the right of the Financial Supervision Authority to issue alerts was not supported by the lead committee in the proposals made by the initiator of the draft act, or the representative of the Ministry of Finance. They would inform the public about activities in which the Financial Supervision Authority would advise people not to invest their money. At its meeting on 19 April, the Steering Committee decided to initiate a separate draft law on the proposal, which is number 380, a draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act. Nor was the proposal by the representative of the initiator's representative to amend the provisions on the register as a matter of urgency due to the delay in the development of the register of beneficial owners in the AML/CFT Act and other acts. The corresponding amendments will enter into force on 10 May. The Commission did not consider it possible to deal with this draft as soon as possible and it was therefore decided to make the necessary amendments to the AML/CFT Act. I would also give, if you will allow me, a summary overview of the discussions at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs where we dealt with this draft between the first reading and the second reading. First of all, the debate at the meeting on 22 March. There we had been invited by Auditor General Janar Holm, who presented his proposals. According to Janar Holm, the competence of the National Audit Office in carrying out economic control over the Financial Supervision Authority in the draft is neither clear nor consistent with the tasks assigned to the National Audit Office as a constitutional institution. The second problem concerns obtaining the information necessary for the audit of the National Audit Office. Perhaps in summary, the question is the law of the National Audit Office to control the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority. The Financial Supervision Authority is currently in a vague state in the view of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office controls many institutions and companies, while exceptions apply to the Financial Supervision Authority. However, the legislation also states that the National Audit Office needs a separate right to access the documents of the Financial Supervision Authority. That's the problem. And it is the competence of the Riigikogu to decide whether or not the National Audit Office has competence over the Financial Supervision Authority. The National Audit Office emphasised that they are not going to carry out financial supervision themselves, but the National Audit Office has competence under the Law of the National Audit Office in relation to the state as a whole and should be covered by the Financial Supervision Authority. Siim Tammer, member of the board of the Financial Supervision Authority, was also invited to the meeting of the Monetary Committee. He was concerned with the most important things from the point of view of the Financial Supervision Authority when it came to amending the law. He stressed that the Financial Supervision Authority was supervised and that there was no control-free space in the big picture. The Head of the Financial Supervision Authority Board shall be the Minister of Finance. The Supervisory Board also has the Governor of Eesti Pank; other members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the Government of the Republic and the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The Supervisory Board is the main control body of the Financial Supervision Authority. The Financial Supervision Authority also reports to the Riigikogu. As regards the day-to-day economic transactions, Eesti Pank controls the Financial Supervision Authority. Eesti Pank's auditor, who is an external auditor, also audits the annual income and expenditure accounts of the Financial Supervision Authority. And the Financial Supervision Authority is also part of the supervision of the European Central Bank, which means that part has also been checked through the European Court of Auditors. On the opinions of the Financial Supervision Authority and the National Audit Office, we also heard explanations from the Ministry of Finance. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, Thomas Honourable, explained that the audit of the National Audit Office has been split into two parts. One is the usual financial audit, economic activity control and information technology audit. In this respect, the power of the National Audit Office to carry out a full audit is not restricted. But there are certain limitations to performance audit. On these control competences, the members of the Commission had questions and discussions. I am not going to report everything here, but in this sitting, the big issue was still being dealt with. The Commission listened to all parties, there was a debate. The Commission's position was that the National Audit Office, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Ministry of Finance still come together separately and try to form a common position on the supervision of the National Audit Office. The Commission also unanimously decided that this issue would continue to be addressed. And indeed, we have had this debate already at the meeting on 13 April. At this meeting we first dealt with the opinion received from the Ministry of Finance on another draft, i.e. the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. There was a problem that the register of actual beneficiaries should enter into force on 10 May following the legislative changes adopted last year. But the problem is that it does not actually enter into force because the corresponding IT applications have not been completed. At this meeting on 13 April, we heard explanations from the Ministry of Finance on this issue and decided to continue the debate the next time. The next time we had it, we had it on April 19. And at this meeting, we first put on the agenda the same amendments to the AML Act and, in particular, the issues relating to the completion of the database of actual beneficiaries. The meeting was held by Toomas Brave, representative of the Ministry of Finance. He explained that the preparation of a database of actual beneficiaries has proved to be a complex and complex task. This regulation was already born in June last year and, according to this regulation, the controller was to be the Ministry of Finance and the Controller Registers and Information Systems Centre for this database. The latter helps the Ministry with the information technology. The very first problem that this thing stood behind was the financing of the creation of this database. The point was that there was no agreement between the ministries on funding, and these funding disputes lasted from June to October last year. And when the sources of funding finally became clear, the initial task was just begun. The first versions of the initial task were completed by the end of October last year. The Registries and Information Systems Centre then recruited a business analyst in December, who first started planning a work schedule. During this timetable, it became clear that the database will not be completed by 10 May this year. In the Commission, we also addressed the technical nuances of this database, the substantive nuances and the financing of the creation of the database. The Committee on Finance also made amendments to this draft, which concerned this issue of data collection. These amendments are also included in the list of amendments attached to the draft. To sum it up. The Committee on Monetary Affairs made consensual decisions. At the beginning of my presentation, I briefly addressed them, but I will repeat them again. First of all, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 5 May; this proposal was consensual. Secondly, to propose that the second reading be stopped, it was also consensual. And when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 12 May, the decision was also consensual. Finally, fourthly, the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed to initiate a separate draft law supplementing the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which concerns these alerts. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U154	Peter Ernits starts with questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U155	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Well, for a long time, it's been handled and the child of the previous government it is. But I ask you that you have been the Minister of Finance, and Mr Ligi has also been: how much have you discussed the amendment to Mr Ligi, the withdrawal of this equity point, which was paragraph 1 (14)? Do you have the same opinion with Jürgen Ligi? Describe a little of these discussions on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U156	The question is clear, clear. Of course, we have been discussing, very thoroughly discussing. This is a major issue and the reduction of the 5 million share capital requirement is not justified. Because credit institutions are still subject to increased liability because they include deposits. In fact, Eesti Pank's letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs was a little concerned about whether the legislator was on the right track when the minimum requirement for share capital was lowered. Where this proposal came from at all as a matter initiated by the previous Minister for Finance, this explanation was also somewhat confusing. Just as the aim of this reduction is to increase competition, to provide the fintech banks with better advantages for their entry into the market. However, I recall, right here at first reading of the draft, I asked the rapporteur, the initiator of the draft, whether there have been problems in practice where some fintech has not received this five million share capital together. There were no such examples. We also had discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on this issue. And the result was that the proposal put forward by Jürgen Ligi was supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U157	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Would anyone like a word? I can't see that. We will go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, taking full account. The second, the lead commission, fully accounted for. The third, presented by Jürgen Ligi, was taken into account in full. Fourth, estimated... I'm sorry! Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U158	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Amendment 3. We cannot rely on the European Union's maximum requirement for starting a bank or compare Estonia with Germany, for example, and therefore, on behalf of the EKRE Group, I would ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U159	Okay, I got it. Mr Riigikogu, I will put to the vote before you a third amendment tabled by Jürgen Ligi, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U160	The proposal was supported by 51 members of the Riigikogu, 16 against, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was supported. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The fifth amendment, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and is fully taken into account. The seventh, the same from the Commission itself, is fully accounted for. Eight, fully accounted for. Amendment 9, fully taken into account. Amendment 10, fully taken into account. Amendment 11, fully taken into account. Amendment 12, fully taken into account. Amendment 13, fully taken into account. Amendment 14, fully taken into account. Fifteen, same thing. Sixteen, same thing. 17, in full, 18, in full, 19th, in full, 20th, in full, 21st, in full, 22nd, in full, 23rd, in full, 24, in full and 25th, in full. We have therefore examined the amendments. The commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading and the second reading of draft 312 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U161	The fifth item is the continuation of the second reading of draft law 284 on the amendment of maritime safety law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I would like Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U162	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 November last year. The first reading took place on 25 November and the second reading was suspended on 7 March this year, as the draft was subject to a number of changes on the basis of proposals from the initiator. After the end of the second reading, no amendments to the draft were received from the Riigikogu by 14 March. The Commission also informed all those involved of the changes made to the draft, who had made different proposals in the course of the procedure. And this time, the Estonian Ports Association, the Estonian Shipowners' Association, the Estonian Seamen's Independent Trade Union and the Navest Agency OÜ sent their opinions to the Commission. In summary, three proposals were received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on this occasion, two of which were formulated on the basis of comments received from the Independent Trade Union of Estonian Seafarers and one was formulated on the basis of the opinion received from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. All of them can be consulted in detail on the draft map. The text of the draft act passed through the language editorial once the second reading was interrupted and the resulting amendments are marked in the text submitted for the second reading. At its meeting on 20 March this year, the Committee on Economic Affairs held a debate to refer the draft to the second reading. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications took part in the meeting. During the meeting, the draft list of amendments was reviewed and the MKM representatives commented on the Ministry's proposals. The Commission also took procedural decisions at its meeting. Very briefly, these three amendments, their content. The first makes an amendment to the fact that the fishing work certificate does not have the form provided for by the Convention and therefore establishes the list of data to be entered in it by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. The second amendment states that larger ships must report their arrival in the Tallinn area and smaller ships must report their arrival in the eastern and western areas of VTS. The third amendment is very legal and technical. The Legal and Analytical Department of our own house discussed whether the decision of the state institution to extend the scope of the law is correct. This concerned the possibility for the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board to take into account the seniority of seafarers on board their ships, the time taken to establish their qualifications. But it was taken out because our analysis department thought that this was not a correct and legal clear amendment that was originally intended to be incorporated into the law with the draft. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the continuation of the second reading, including by 5 May, and that the second reading of the draft be terminated. In the event that the second reading of the draft is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 May and put to the final vote. All the decisions were consensual. I see that those who participated in this meeting and decided in a consensual way were the speakers, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb, Kristen Michal, Sven Sester and Mikhail Stalnukhin. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U163	Aivar Chef would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U164	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Question: did any issues remain in the Commission? Members of the Riigikogu have received letters from both ports and the transit sector on this same bill and I understand that their proposals have not been taken into account in this draft. How were these discussions in the Commission, and what decisions were made there?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U165	Yes, in the Commission, there are currently three aspects of maritime issues that concern this draft at the margins, but the proposals that have been made have not been taken into account because they need to be considered further. And maybe the most important thing to talk about right now is STS operations, or ship-to-ship operations, which means unloading and loading at sea from a ship to a ship. There's also bunkering. Bunking is the supply of the ship, landing is the unloading of goods and loading is the loading of goods. Maybe the landing of one ship is the loading of another ship. These topics will be discussed in more detail at the Ministry of the Environment, the Environmental Board, the Environmental Inspectorate, the Police and Border Guard Board, and I know that these STS operations were in the government office last week. And I know that the bill is being developed, and I read from the materials that the government has taken a basically banist attitude. The Committee on Economic Affairs will be discussing this issue again in the near future. What I know, and today I have reviewed, for example, Eesti Gaas has a bunker ship coming to the sea that bunkers LNG. It has been a desirable activity in the Baltic Sea and also in Estonia to reduce sulphur emissions and bring ships to LNG heating. Eesti Gaas is now specifically bringing the ship. With regard to bunkering, our own state policy has been such that bunkering at sea under certain conditions should remain in the long term, and I am not sure whether LNG bunkering in Estonia can be done at berth, but I just don't know it. Another problem that remained and was written to us by market participants was to hope for the driving test language. Today you can hope to pass the driving test in Estonian. Other countries in our region have gone beyond the expectation of taking a driving test in English as well. But it has longer and wider effects. One thing is that without the hope of taking a driving test can be taken when the captain has gone to a particular port ten times, then he will take the test so that he can go there in the future without using the pilotage service. But one of the boatmasters who took this exam said that a captain of another nationality went to the same exam with him, who took the exam through an interpreter and got the exam through an interpreter. Then the question arises about the same VTS system, or vessel traffic service system, which is in Estonian today, that the captain, who takes the exam via an interpreter, communicates with other vessels in the VTS system who communicate with each other in Estonian. Sweden and Finland have already switched to English in this VTS system so that all ships moving in the area can understand each other correctly. In Sweden, this transition has taken place earlier. Finland has been transitioned three years ago, and it did not go the same way in pain. And the third, let's say, a circle in this hopeless driving problem is that if the captain wants to travel hopefully and he communicates with all ship drivers in the VTS system in English, then the Estonian Maritime Code should also be fully English. But now not all Estonian maritime legislation has yet been translated into English. I would also like to mention the fourth aspect. Since there are relatively many captains who regularly visit Estonian ports and therefore would like to hope to take the driving test in English, the order for the Estonian Lootsi pilot service might be reduced by more than half. But the pilotage service must be provided by the state and the economic model of the Estonian pilotage must be recalculated so that the pilotage service remains available for ships visiting the country. Since this problem is substantial and involves far-reaching effects, the issue of driving without hope has not been included in this draft. And, of course, the biggest issue is the flagging of the [Estonia] ships by these market participants, the creation of jobs in the shore sector, i.e. the implementation of the shipping package that came into force on 1 July last year. These three major issues in the maritime domain remained the subject of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U166	Aivar Chef, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U167	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much for your meaningful answer. I'd like to be more specific. Somewhere I read, from the Postman, the government press release that STS operations, or unloading and loading at sea, have already been banned. If the government has made such a decision, shouldn't this law also include these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U168	The Federation of Ports sent us two letters. Before came this letter, which included their legal analysis that landing and loading are permitted only in ports and that ports could organise it both at their berths and outside the port's waters, i.e. on the high seas. After the completion of the second reading, a second letter with the signatures of the executives of the major Estonian ports drew attention to the Port Act that landings and cargoes take place in ports. Let's say, it really has been the attitude of market participants that landing and loading should take place in ports, although Navest Agency OÜ also sent the Commission the opposite opinion. But I do owe the answer in this regard to whether the government has signed the regulation banning STS operations in Estonia's territorial waters. I tried to find it when I prepared today's report, but I couldn't find it. I can't tell you if I just didn't find it or if that regulation hasn't been signed yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U169	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U170	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! To be honest, the language issue was a little surprised at the pilot's exams. If you draw parallels here with air traffic control and air traffic control, it's been in English for years. Captains should understand each other, speak one language, to prevent shipping accidents in the Baltic Sea, as shipping in the Baltic Sea is very busy. However, is it not important from a safety point of view to review this language issue? I understand that this may have an impact on the profits of the Estonian pilot, but in order to prevent shipping accidents, all the captains speaking on the air should still understand each other. I do not think that those with international captains' papers speak enough English. They wouldn't get their captain's papers if they didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U171	Yes, there is certainly no concern with the international captains at all, but in our waters such local ships travel up to 24 metres, for example, whose captains travel only in local waters and may not speak English. Although I agree with that and I agree with you, my good colleague Imre, that shipping, especially here in the area of shipping traffic services in Tallinn, is becoming increasingly dense and increasingly international. I think that, for reasons of maritime safety alone, we should go to English in the VTS system and, in this connection, we should also hope to take a driving test in English. And, of course, both within the framework of the shipping package and due to maritime safety, Estonia's maritime legislation needs to be translated into English, and I think it will be the future of Estonia in the coming years, just as in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U172	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you. Let's go to the negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let us examine the amendments. Three of them have been presented, all from the Committee on Economic Affairs and all taken fully into account. Maybe somebody wants to vote. One, two and three. We have therefore examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft 284 be discontinued. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U173	Our sixth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Kaljulaid, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U174	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 January this year and the purpose of this draft is to lay the foundations for giving state software free of charge to the public and for the cross-use of state software between state property managers. Its first reading took place on 10 March. No amendments were tabled. The draft procedure has been notified to the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, who issued an opinion on the draft, where he expressed his support for the draft version pending before the Riigikogu. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading on 19 April and did not propose any amendments to the draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by today, 5 May, and that the second reading be closed. And when the second reading of this draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading and to hold a final vote on 12 May. All these decisions were consensual in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U175	There are no questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There's no wish for words. As there were no amendments, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 308. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U176	Our seventh item is the second reading of Bill 351 of the Penal Code Amendment Act (non-cash means of payment) initiated by the Government of the Republic. The report will be made by Anti Poolamets, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U177	[[Remote connection]] I will introduce the activities between the two readings in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The first reading of Bill 351 was completed on 27 April. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 15 April. Neither the political groups nor the members of the Riigikogu proposed amendments to the draft. The opinion on the draft was sought from the stakeholders mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, who were involved in the preparation of the draft, including the Estonian Bar Association, Eesti Pank and the University of Tartu. Opinions on the draft and proposals for amendments to the draft were not submitted. The Commission also discussed the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 19 April with a representative of the Ministry of Justice. The committee proposed that the draft be put on the Riigikogu agenda for second reading, including by 5 May. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading, including by 12 May. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U178	There are no questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of Bill 351. So we're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U179	Let's move on. Our eighth item today is the first reading of the Bill 367 of Amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the Amendment of Other Laws (the Revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure). This will be introduced to us by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U180	[[Remote connection]] Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws in connection with it. This can also be described as the first stage of the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The second stage is planned to be prepared in the autumn, which would concern international cooperation. The purpose of this draft is to lay the foundations for digital criminal proceedings and to resolve certain problems that have arisen in the pre-trial proceedings. Now, I'd like to tell you a little bit more about what's being proposed with this bill. Firstly, opportunities for digital procedures will be created and the law will also become more flexible, as well as technologically neutral. Provisions that hinder the digital process shall be deleted. For example, the requirements for the signing of printouts will be abolished. In addition, principles are laid down on how to create digital documents, including the definition of exceptions. A procedure shall be established where information procedures in criminal proceedings are normally carried out digitally. The examination of procedural documents shall also, as a rule, take place electronically. The requirement to sign the documents in the course of the criminal investigation shall be replaced by validation. The structural requirements of certain procedural documents, with the exception of those relating to judicial documents, shall be abolished and a situation shall be established where, in certain cases, the recording may also be replaced by a description of the progress and results of the proceedings. Now from a few more changes to the so-called blocks. First of all, extending the principle of rationality. The general rule, i.e. the principle of legality, remains valid. It says that if there are signs of a crime, the procedure must be initiated. However, there will be solutions that allow for, for example, pre-trial conciliation if the victim and the perpetrator have accepted a second-degree crime, there is no public procedural interest, there is no clear circumstances and there is no reason to suspect that reconciliation was not the victim's free will. The court can also close the proceedings for reasons of rationality without a request from the prosecutor. If there are less than six months left until the expiry date of the second-degree offence, the Public Prosecutor's Office may decide not to initiate proceedings. One of the changes concerns supplementing the regulation of the seal. Several seals can be applied at any time, a so-called 'free' seal will be created. You can use a restraining order not specifically mentioned in the law, but easier than arrest. But that certainly requires the consent of the person. As a result of the amendments, the court may impose a different restraining order instead of arrest. A new form of restraining is proposed, such as movement restrictions, communication restrictions and the obligation to act. The regulation of the temporary protection order is specified and the application of electronic surveillance is allowed as a stand-alone seal. One new barrier, which is also proposed, is the prohibition of the division, merger and removal of a legal person during criminal proceedings in order to exclude criminal liability. A few more changes. For example, the definition of investigating judge and enforcement judge is abolished. The grounds for the judge's objection will be broadened, the preparation of procedural documents will be simplified, the possibility of an expert and expert hearing and others will be expanded. Changes are also made to the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. They also support digitisation and are analogous to amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In other words, the direction is still to cut red tape and to ensure that the rules of criminal proceedings and misdemeanour proceedings are more uniform, more similar. In addition to these two Codes, the entire draft amends ten other laws and these amendments relate mainly to what is being done in these two Codes of Criminal Procedure and in particular the Code of Criminal Procedure. The bill proposes that it enter into force in the middle of next year. In cases where this is not possible, digital activities could be implemented by 2025 at the latest. This bill has been drawn up for a very long time. The process started as early as 2017. There have been a number of discussions and coordination rounds, so it is certainly a rather voluminous draft, but also thoroughly worked out. Thank you! I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U181	The first question is asked by Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'd like to ask you about the "free" principle. Until now, and now, the prosecutor's office, or prosecutor, is requesting a restraining order. Do I understand your explanation correctly that from now on, this role will be taken by the judge who will decide what kind of restraining order to apply? Is he going to choose it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U183	I'm sorry, I didn't hear the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U184	Good Minister, the question was that...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U185	I didn't hear the question. Can we do it again?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U186	Did Kert Kingo hear us, can he turn us back on? Now, please, let's give Kert Kingo another microphone!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U187	Please, I can't hear...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U188	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U189	We can hear you. We hope the Minister can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U190	I asked about the restraining order. You said there was an open seal, and the judge will make the choice of this seal. So far, it was the prosecutor's office, maybe the prosecutor. The DA's office has requested either arrest or some other restraining order. Or the police. Let me get this straight. That's the decision the court's gonna make now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U191	Well, good minister, did you hear that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U192	I'm so sorry, but I haven't heard any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U193	Can you hear me? It seems to me that the Minister has... Good minister, can you hear me now? We can hear you very well, and we can see you. Now, do we hear each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U194	I don't hear any questions, I can't answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U195	Maybe the speakers are out. Now, good minister, can you hear me? I'll take the President's break three minutes, and I'll call the Minister because we can hear him, but he doesn't seem to hear us. So the manager's intermission is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U196	Now, Maris, can you hear us now?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U197	Yeah, now I can hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U198	Very good! Then we're a minute away from finishing the break. So please stay on the line. Please return the microphone to Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U199	Thank you. I'll try again. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. You were talking about a new restraining order like a free restraining order. I understand from what you've said that the judge, the court, will decide that now. So far, the choice of a restraining order has been the responsibility of the prosecutor, of the prosecutor's office, or of the police officer himself. Am I right to understand that now, as a result of this amendment, the court will decide on barriers, such as arrest or any less lenient option?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U200	It's not like that. Let's just say, in certain situations, it's an opportunity for a judge to decide on a restraining order, but basically it's done by the judge. But since the decision is made by a judge, there is a possibility that the judge can make these choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U201	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U202	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! The draft extends the possibility for the defendant not to initiate or terminate an offence procedure in situations where there is no public interest. We remember very well how, before the previous elections to the Riigikogu, a husband of a leading reform party falsely accused him of being attacked by some EKRE members and his dog. It was overturned, a criminal case was initiated for false testimony, but it was closed, as if there was no public interest in it, which was not at all true. The public interest, as well as the media interest, was quite present and very large. This certainly also affected the results of the election. Do you not think that such practice can become much wider and that, under the pretext of lack of public interest, much more things will be stopped without a basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U203	Thank you for your question. I am the person who believes that the Estonian judicial system works honestly and fairly, considering things, taking all the circumstances into account. And it really may be that for some people, a particular thing may not be of minor importance, it seems very important, but we are talking about the public, perhaps the interest of the whole society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U204	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U205	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. It's all right. I would also like to believe in the court, but my question is that there are many opinions on this draft, but they have actually been taken into account very little. For example, the Supreme Court has submitted 77 proposals and 30 of them have been said to be disregarded. For example, a cross-examination, a tracking permit, doesn't have time to talk about everything here. What does that mean? Is there a bum in the Supreme Court who doesn't share the fight?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U206	Thank you for your question. I think the Supreme Court shares matters very well, but we must always look at what the specific bill deals with. We can't put all things in one bill. These issues may be addressed in the following drafts and subsequent amendments. If we look, this bill is already very substantial, it deals with quite a number of topics. If you add all kinds of things to it, it would, I dare say, become extremely complicated and maybe even out of control.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U207	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I still want to ask you about the choice of this seal. As far as is known, the person who deals with the case and its circumstances, as well as the person who has committed the act, is still the person who deals with it. Usually on this basis, taking into account the previous pattern of conduct of the person subject to proceedings, the defendant also chooses a restraining order. And now I have the question that if the judge has the right to change this barrier, in his opinion, does the judge's opinion, as if, at all, do not matter? It ruins a lot. After all, the judge has not actually been in contact with the person subject to the proceedings and has not been fully familiar with the details. Is it really that the judge can change the judge's decision on the seal?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U209	Thank you for your question. I'm sure the main consideration will remain with the judge. Under certain circumstances, it is possible for the court to choose an easier restraining order. For example, arresting and putting a person in prison is still a very strong offense, and if a judge has a reasoned opinion that imprisonment is not justified enough, he can offer a lighter restraining measure than the restraining order offered by the judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U210	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U211	Thank you. I will continue on the subject of the previous question. Mary Kross made that false accusation. In the absence of a public interest, the proceeding was terminated. It was condemned, and the Attorney General wondered about it. At the same time, a completely unknown maiden in Tartu fell off the bike drunk and lied as if he had been assaulted, and he received a criminal sentence for false speech or false testimony. Completely incomparable things to each other! One was really serious about the defamation and false campaign against one party, the other was just such a casual story. Why don't you define what the public interest is? One drunk girl is concerned, but not the political parties of the parliament, the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U212	Thank you for your question. First of all, I certainly cannot comment on judgments and individual circumstances. I don't think that's basically right either. But I want to remind you that the public interest is not the same as the public interest. It is important to look more broadly at whether or not the circumstances of one or the other case need to be dealt with further. How a decision is made is a matter for decision-makers. And after all, maybe they don't always make the best decisions, people don't know everything very well. But I certainly do not agree to say that one or the other decision already made is wrong. That's the opinion I leave to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U213	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U214	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. First of all, as an analyst, have you read this bill and all these coordination issues. I've read it, and I've read it over and over and over again. It's kind of rosolje. You state, on the one hand, that the document-based digital is now being transferred, but at the same time, we are talking about how many files there will be here, etc. And there's a lot of savings. What are the actual savings you are declaring here? And then, like, how many files are left digital and then help files and all that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U215	Remote connection) Thank you for your question. Yeah, of course I've read the material. It is really very voluminous, so maybe rapid orientation in it is only possible for those who have been involved in and constantly engaged in this whole process of drafting. As far as possible savings are concerned, savings are beginning to occur, for example, because we no longer have to print out a bunch of files to transfer materials from one institution to another. It's totally there right now. This is where the savings come from. And we are now sending them by mail from one place to another, and there will be savings in both money and labour. So there will be savings. We are also talking about the fact that if the elements from which the whole procedural process has been made up from the investigation, even at the trial and, more broadly, will work together, it will actually create a new quality. Human error is likely to be reduced. There will be traces of all the operations. So it's all developing, and I think in reality we're gonna win a lot more than that. Not only are we saving up in one place or another, but we're making the procedure quicker, so everything works efficiently, we don't spend time papering, printing, sending things somewhere, waiting again, checking that nothing's gone missing anywhere. In the end, the procedure will become faster and, if the procedure is faster, it will mean that if a crime has been committed, we will get to the penalty more quickly. And it has been proven that in this case, crime will begin to decline. This, too, gives rise to an additional positive effect. So I think that this change, with which we create digital opportunities and other steps to implement modern technology, will have a very positive impact on a very broad field and on society at all. We also stick together in the sense that crime is decreasing, which is positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U216	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U217	Thank you very much. Good minister! Now there's a little mess for me. Let's take the same keywords: e-file. You said we were creating a digital opportunity. The digital option basically means that there is a digital and some other option. But from the bill itself, I read clearly that the information stored in the e-file system has legal meaning. We're talking criminal records and court records. The primary will be the e-file and not any other material. At the same time, in the court administration council, I had the impression that this e-file system was still very bumpy and difficult to manage, kept and used. So let's say it's practically 100% unusable. What about this thing, have you considered the option that there might still be another option next to the e-file?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U218	Thank you for your question. Really, it is, as I said in my presentation, that we are going to make this transition. This transition is so that the law will enter into force in the middle of next year, but because we are still doing a number of digital solutions, it is really not ready. But the Ministry's action plan has everything planned, the money's been allocated, the work is already underway, so that these systems really work. However, this does not mean that we already have all the solutions. However, this is working, and now there is a chance that, as long as the system is not perfect and completely complete, there will also be traditional opportunities. This bill creates opportunities for us to switch to digital procedures. This transition doesn't take place like this, and then one day everything's suddenly digital. We can go on exactly how we can get our development done. And it is very important that this law is adopted so that applications are not left behind legislative shortcomings. There's a thing. As long as not all digital techniques can be implemented, other options will also be used. If it's possible to use digitally, we'll go over to it. And I also point out that, in fact, a large part of the changes proposed in this draft is aimed at ensuring that this process is technologically neutral. It is this to ensure that no one says that you need to do something on paper or necessarily sign it with a pen or ink. You can do it digitally. But you can do it on paper if you can't do it digitally. As far as the e-file is concerned, all documents, such as signed documents, are collected in the e-file. But at the same time, let's say, when the original document is on paper, they are also preserved. If it is necessary to check whether the information in the digital file is correct, whether it corresponds to the original, it can be verified. So this law actually creates transition possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U219	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U220	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, The transition to digital files is certainly welcome and will increase both savings and speed of the procedure. But here's the question. In relation to digital files, is this whole process auditable and time-stamped? Some, let's say, not a very honest policeman or a detective wouldn't be able to post a document somewhere afterwards? I remember the incident that went through the press a few years ago. A policeman checked his neighbor's wife's database or something and forgot to leave a trace of it, and then he got punished. Is it guaranteed that it will not be possible to change anything in this digital system afterwards and to influence the process in a certain direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U221	Thank you. That's actually the right question! Let's just say it's always possible to create certain systems. And certainly for the e-file, this is the kind of system that will be created that if anyone goes in there, there will be a trail of those who have been and what has been changed. I don't think the people who are aware of this are going to do it. And let's just say that bad examples also correct future behaviors. From my past experience in banking, I know that it is exactly the same: every person entering another person's account to look at it, leaves a mark, and those caught with it get severely punished. And it's exactly the same with the e-file. Unreasoned hobbling and changing, especially by changing it, certainly means a proper punishment.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U222	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U223	Thank you very much. Good minister! I have as a follow-up question, it still concerns the same §1601, it is a "criminal dossier and case file" and paragraph 4 of the same paragraph states that the information stored in the e-file system has legal meaning. And that is why the question is whether this information, which is not stored digitally in an e-file within the meaning of the criminal file, has no legal meaning.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U224	Thank you for your question. Let's just say that once the document that has been identified in the investigation has been discovered, it will be made a digital copy and put into the e-file. This digital copy of the paper document will help to deliver faster, but still all those paper documents that are relevant to the procedure and which may have arisen somewhere in the process will be kept. But the fact that documents are digital accelerates the process. If there is any doubt as to whether the document is correct, whether it is real, then it is possible to check the information on the paper. However, if the document has originally been on paper and has been digitalised, being in the e-file, it will have the same value as evidence or information. It has an evidence value, we don't have to print it out and check it out again. Let's just say that if you send someone digitally signed documents, you won't print them out to prove that they really exist. You're picking up and digitally looking at that, yes, there is a document. In this sense, the situation is analogous.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U225	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you! Now we will also listen to the presentation of the commission and this will be done by Urve Tiidus of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and related amendments to other laws was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 12 April. Lauri, the minister who introduced the draft, explained that this was the first part of the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Simply put, the revision in this context is an analysis of the practical functioning of the laws and, as a result of this analysis, improvements to the law are being made. As we have heard from the Minister today, the aim of the draft is to pave the way for a full digital criminal and misdemeanour procedure, which is a logical follow-up to technological progress. As we have heard from the Minister in the Commission, and we have heard from the Commission today, and as materials can be read, there is much more to this draft. This draft also launched a longer debate in the Commission. I would like to highlight my choice from a number of questions. The committee chairman himself opened up by examining whether this draft concerns a change in the time limits for proceedings and, if not, when it is planned to discuss this issue more seriously. Markus Kärner, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, attended the meeting of the Commission. We heard from him that the draft did not concern the time limits for proceedings. Setting procedural time limits would not speed up the procedure. The speed of the procedure mostly depends on the resource. In order to ensure that the time limits for proceedings are reasonable, the European Court of Human Rights case-law has established the principle of reasonableness of the time limit for proceedings. The Vice-President confirmed that, although no procedural time limits are laid down in the draft, the entire draft is essentially aimed at improving the efficiency of the procedure by means of digital changes and structural requirements for procedural documents. As information of general interest, we learned that the deadline for the general procedure last year has been, for example, almost 150 days until the entry into force of the decision, and that is actually very fast compared to the civil and administrative procedures. A representative of the Ministry foresaw a possible question on the Commission as to what will happen to those people who lack digital capability. There are provisions in the bill that show that no one is forced onto a computer if they do not have the means to do so. Likewise, the amendments made to the draft do not mean this, and I quote that 'there are no situations where there is no alternative but to carry out non-digital procedural activities'. Simply put, situations where digital procedural procedures cannot be carried out are not excluded. However, the aim of the draft is that in future documents will be scanned in the e-file, the original document will be kept and documents will be digitally formalised immediately. One interesting point was in the debate. So far, for example, the signature has been a crucial element in criminal proceedings. The result is that a lot of documents are printed out. This draft makes the law more flexible and provides for the possibility that the signature is not necessarily necessary and it is the duty of the judge to prove that he, for example, introduced his rights to the person. The draft is intended to make the wording technologically neutral, as we have just heard from the Minister, and to abandon the terms referring to paper documents. But the sentence doesn't lose the concept of signature. Mr Karilaid asked that the amendment concerning the restraining order be clarified. The draft provides for a general restriction on movement which may be applied in order to protect the rights of the victim and is, in particular, an additional way to be used in civil proceedings. The current regulation on the prohibition of approach to victims is, as if, only applicable to crimes against individuals or against minors. According to a representative of the Ministry, there are crimes that are not directly attributable to crimes against individuals. For example, it is an abusive pursuit of an offence for which a restraining order is clearly necessary. The topic of harassment has so far been solved by the practice of the Supreme Court; the law specifies that the restraining order does not have to be applied in full rigour. Certain forms of communication, such as texting at a certain time, may be restricted. The draft does not take the opportunity to apply for a restraining order; it will remain. The question raised in the committee was Mr Kruusimäe, a colleague of the Committee, asked whether the review of criminal proceedings could have been included in the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. As we know, the Committee on Legal Affairs was not involved in the review of criminal proceedings. Lawyers, prosecutors and judges were involved, as were officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, a working group on the review of criminal proceedings. Here, yes, there was no legislator himself, but we can deal with it here. The question of deadlines was also: when will we get to adoption? The position of the committee chairman was that the second reading of the draft could take place in the middle of the autumn and the adoption of the law in December of this year. Minister Lauri added that the draft should enter into force by the middle of next year and it is therefore good to have the draft adopted this year in the Riigikogu. A member of the Commission asked for a definition of the public interest. The question was prompted by the information in the draft introduction that one of the objectives of the draft is to extend the possibility for the prosecution not to open or terminate the criminal proceedings in situations where there is no public interest or prospect of punishing the perpetrator. The Deputy Chancellor explained that the definition of public interest already exists in Estonian legislation. The bill doesn't add anything to the legislation. At present, it is regulated by § 202 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which deals with the termination of proceedings in the low public interest where the blame is low. The public interest is not clearly defined in the case-law of the Supreme Court, but it should be furnished on the basis of criminal policy objectives and criminal proceedings, the Deputy Chancellor explained to the Commission. The public interest is in the public interest and, for reasons of public interest, the proceedings are not closed, for example, in matters concerning paedophilia, rape and related violence. The Commission was asked to clarify the motive for the measure on additional restrictions on detainees. In particular, the entry into force of the law allows for long-term appointments for arrested persons in certain cases. This follows from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The Ministry of Justice considers that this must be very case-specific and take into account the procedural situation of the arrested person. For example, the arrest of a drunk driver may be based on the fact that he may continue to commit crimes at large, drive a drunken driver, while restricting his communication may be purposeless and may harm the prospects of his reintegration. A change in electronic surveillance was also noted. What changed exactly was asked. The amendments are purely procedural, there was an answer. Currently, electronic surveillance can only be applied as a replacement for arrest. According to the draft, electronic surveillance can also be applied as a stand-alone seal for people who are not encouraged to be arrested but who are wanted to be supervised. In addition, some additional barriers, such as restrictions on communication, can be applied according to the draft. The Commission also raised the question of what are the major shortcomings in the electronic procedure. My personal opinion: that is a very good question. However, we have received confirmation that the draft is trying to resolve the legal problems on a large scale. An important issue is the development of IT systems, which would allow the full digitisation of the procedure and the submission of all documents to the courts digitally. Ideally, in the future, the prosecutor will be able to say in court that he or she has a desire to present a certificate, such as an observation of the crime scene. Then, if the court agrees to accept the certificate, the prosecutor will send the certificate to the judges, the accused and the lawyer's computer and it will be possible to display it in the courtroom. This is where the term "digital legal arc" comes into play. The digital loop means that the whole procedure is digital from the point of departure to the final stage. The Vice Chancellor described the matter figuratively, and I will briefly give you an example. If a bloody knife is found at the scene, this physical evidence is captured by a police officer's chest camera on the scene. The site observation is part of the observation protocol to be added to the information system of the prosecutor's office via the police information system. And when the knife is transferred to the Forensic Institute, it's recorded in this information system that the knife arrived for expert analysis. And through the information system of the prosecutor's office, you can also see the object being taken apart in two pieces or DNA samples and other things. All procedures are digitally visible in one place. The judge can see it in the course of the final procedural decision and be assigned, for example, to evidence of the same procedure for leaving or not. As regards the necessary IT developments and other financing, Minister Lauri said that the plans for IT developments are to use the available resources, which have already been allocated. There are also advance agreements, as he has just introduced here to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Members of the Commission received answers to a number of other quite specific questions. There was also a suggestion to add a clause to IT applications that it should be compatible with existing systems, even so that minor procedural errors would not collapse major cases. And it is certainly interesting for non-jurisdictionists to know that the rules of criminal proceedings are strict because they are a system of risk-sharing. Due to the presumption of innocence, the risks have been distributed in such a way that they are strongly in favour of the suspect. That's according to this new bill. They also asked how they plan to preserve digital evidence for the future. On this point, the Deputy Secretary-General replied that the digital evidence was preserved in the e-file system. A more detailed overview of the debate is available in the Commission's minutes. Personally, I would add that there was a seriously interesting debate during which exhaustive answers were received from ministerial representatives. Marju Aibast, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of the Interior, informed the Commission that the Ministry of the Interior was very supportive of the implementation of the current draft as a law. He pointed out that the draft required a number of terminological changes, with considerable costs. And the Ministry of the Interior also expressed its wish to find the necessary funding for the administration to implement all the changes. Now the decisions of the Commission. To propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 5 May, today, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 19 May and to appoint Urve Tiidus as rapporteur. All these decisions were made by consensus and decided by Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Anti Poolamets, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U227	Siim Pohlak has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U228	[[Remote connection]] ... this point, which concerns the extension of the prosecution's possibilities not to start or terminate criminal proceedings in different situations. Was there any discussion or arguments in the Commission as to whether it could not make this so-called ruler too soft? Perhaps it is now possible, with arbitrary rights, but, let's say, arbitrarily, to leave the proceedings open on certain occasions or to end it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U229	Thank you very much, Siim Pohlak. There was no mention of this very seriously in the Commission, but the Minister presented his presentation on the initiation or abandonment of the procedure. I'm just checking the protocol to see if that's what they've been talking about. Wait a minute! Well, yeah, that's my answer. But the protocol is very precise, and if I was wrong now, you can specify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U230	No further questions. Thank you! Let's open the negotiations. There are no requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline of 19 May at 4 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U231	Our ninth item on the agenda is the draft law amending the Copyright Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 368, in particular, the transposition of copyright directives. This will be introduced to us by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U232	[[Remote connection]] The Copyright Act is amended to transpose two directives. Firstly, the so-called DSM Directive on copyright and related rights in the Digital Single Market and, secondly, the so-called "KabSat2" Directive establishing rules for the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to broadcasting organisations and certain webcasts and the retransmission of television and radio broadcasts. The amendments proposed by the draft act aim to ensure better access to protected content, such as TV radio programmes, European audiovisual works and cultural heritage throughout the European Union, as well as to promote the digital use of protected content by clarifying rules for the use of protected content on the single free market, and also to ensure the functioning of a fair copyright market by providing the right incentives to invest in and disseminate content. The Directives should be transposed by 7 June this year. Now, more specifically, about this rather large bill. First of all, the draft improves the bargaining power of authors and performers, as a weaker contracting party, in the award of authors' contracts by which they have transferred or authorise the exercise of their rights. It obliges the other party to the contract, such as the film producer, the producer of the phonogram or the publisher, to provide the author and performer with information on the exercise of rights at least once a year, to provide information. This will enable authors and performers to better assess the economic value of their rights. It also provides for the possibility for the author and performer, under certain conditions, to withdraw their rights from the other party to the contract, i.e. to terminate the contract unilaterally. When transferring or licensing rights, authors and performers expect their works and performances to be used but may not be used at any time. For example, the film scenario may not be used by the producer. In such a case, authors and performers should be able to terminate the contract unilaterally after a reasonable period of time, allowing them to transfer or license their rights to another person. The law adds obligations to online platforms through which users make copyright-protected content available to the public online. In order to describe it more precisely, I will first talk about what the problem is. Platform providers, the best known ones, or YouTube and Facebook, allow service users to upload works, performances and other content that may be protected by copyright or related rights. Like video clips from concerts. Platform providers shall generate revenue through such uploads, including by showing advertisements alongside uploaded content of users. This has created a situation where users charge copyright-protected content to online platforms on a massive basis without the consent of the right-acquires; platform providers benefit from it, but rightholders do not receive compensation for this activity. This is because, under the current rules, intermediary service providers are not responsible for the content uploaded by users on their platform. Now, under this draft, a system will be put in place to oblige platforms to be authorised from right holders in order to enable users to upload their works and other rights objects to the platform or, in the absence of authorisation, to ensure, for example by technical means, that a copyright-protected object cannot be uploaded or removed from the platform on demand. This will allow rightholders to be compensated for the disclosure to the public of the objects of their rights on such platforms. If we look at Estonia's practice, Estonia is known not to have established such platforms, but we have several platforms that have been established in other countries. So the positive effects are first and foremost felt by rightholders. I also point out that, in the interests of consumers, including the protection of freedom of expression, regulation includes the obligation for platforms not to block legitimate content. This means that, for example, under the so-called 'parody' exception, memos posted in social media are still allowed. The draft also specifies some cases of free use where users are allowed to use a work protected by copyright, such as a playphone without the consent of the holder and without payment of a fee. This concerns, in particular, the creation of legal certainty. The amendments aim at creating legal certainty for the use of protected content in cross-border cases in the digital format. An example is the online course available in the European Union. While the copyright law in force in Estonia already ensures quite flexible use, regulation of free use, the approach has been fragmented across the European Union. Now this regulation will be harmonised and, for example, in order to carry out distance learning well known to us during this year, educational institutions will be able to use a variety of digital learning opportunities, including pictures and musical pieces. And that's just to illustrate the learning process. Cultural heritage institutions, such as libraries, museums and archives, can make better use of non-commercial works to promote cultural heritage. For example, when concluding an agreement with an association of authors or performers in Estonia, or in the absence of such an organisation, the public can make available on the website of the memory institution the posters, leaflets, books, event plans and other items belonging to the body's collection. Detailed rules are also laid down for the text's data mining process for the processing of copyright-protected content. This is precisely for research purposes in educational and cultural heritage institutions. The law introduces a completely new category of copyright related rights, which will ensure that publishers of press publications have greater control over the use of the publication online. If, so far, the publisher was able to rely on the protection of copyright in respect of articles and other subject-matter contained in the publication, as the authors' rights are generally transferred to the publisher under law or contract, then he will in future also have a separate negotiating right in respect of the publication as such. The changes also make it possible to charge a fee to the press when, for example, information society service providers such as news generators, Google News, for example, collect and systematise different information from different sources. There is no "link tax" that was discussed some time ago. Hyperlinks, links, additions and placements are still allowed, but a "news" contract must be signed and paid for in the future. Various issues relating to the online use and retransmission of programmes by television and radio service providers are also clarified. For example, the conditions for applying the "country of origin" principle to the provision of an online ancillary service by television or radio service providers are laid down. This concerns simultaneous transfers or oversight services. In order to make its services available across borders, the broadcaster should normally receive rights for all territories where their programme is available. That makes it very difficult in practice. The draft stipulates that for the use of certain content, mostly news, current broadcasts, self-perceived programmes, only one country, the so-called "country of origin," must be authorised, even if the content is also available through some probation service outside that particular country. In conclusion, changes to the draft will result in greater access to content for users and a more balanced and effective protection of the rights of rightholders. Positive impacts are expected on the functioning of the cultural and educational system, as content becomes more accessible thanks to the clarification of the regulation of free use. It also provides support for the information society and improves the bargaining power of both journalism and self-authors and performers in contractual relations. In addition, rightholders are guaranteed additional revenues for the use of their works on platforms where their users share the content created by third parties. There are also certain additional obligations for different bodies and organisations, such as information obligations in contractual relations, obligations on certain platforms and others. The draft is planned to enter into force on 7 June this year. I know that the procedure of the Riigikogu may not be working so quickly, but the date proposed in the draft is due to the fact that we would like to enforce these conditions by the time prescribed by the directives. There have been many discussions and discussions during the preparation of the draft. Very many organisations have been involved. It was difficult to find solutions, and let us say that there are certainly parties who may not be quite satisfied with the solutions proposed, but I believe that the agreement reached or the proposed draft is still balanced and worthy of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U233	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U234	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, many parties are involved. In a letter to the Cultural Commission, the Estonian Film Operators' Association writes: "Audiovisual area needs to balance copyright law in such a way that equivalent rights must be granted to the visual side, as is currently the audio side of the law. We see that "audio" functions almost impeccablely because authors are left with their property rights here. " The composer creates music for the film and can later use it to produce records, though at concerts. However, the rights of the director, screenwriter, operator, artist and author of the dialogue will automatically be transferred to the producer or producer. They have no property rights. Will this law finally help to correct this gap between filmmakers?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U235	Thank you for your question. This draft does not directly resolve this issue, as it is not the subject of a directive. Going past this, it can be said that resolving this issue requires very major fundamental changes, which this draft certainly cannot make. As has been said, this draft deals primarily with the transposition of two directives into Estonian law. But I think the changes that have been made here will contribute a little to the film producers. For example, the same change that creates the obligation to notify and can change the contract can be revoked. In my opinion, certain positive steps are also in place for film producers in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U236	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, the law amending the copyright law that you report is very voluminous, 140 pages. I am most concerned about the fact that there is also a part of the infringement. I mean, the penalty is 50,000 euros. That's even more than a punishment for a second-degree crime. I do not understand why we must always transpose European Union directives if we are not even able to fully implement copyright law in the current situation. A few days ago, Anneli Ott, as Minister of Culture, explained that the curators of the museum changed the names of works produced by authors in paintings. When are we really going to implement Estonian law, not just carrying directives across Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U238	Thank you. Estonia is known to be a member of the European Union and Estonia has made this choice with full knowledge through a referendum. There is also very strong support for membership of the European Union among the people today. So being in a contractual relationship with other countries of the European Union, it makes sense that we follow these agreements as much as possible. When negotiations are taking place, we can also express our views and, if necessary, make changes. So we have every opportunity to shape this environment ourselves. And we've made that choice ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U239	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U240	Good manager! Good minister! There's this fat piece of paper again. But my question is that on 1 April you gave it to the Riigikogu and on 7 June it is already a deadline for these directives to be enforced. Why have you been in the government for so long, and now you have to rush over your head? I've read that there's been a lot of discussion over the past few months.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U241	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would point out that this is a subject where there were a lot of discussions, negotiations. There were a lot of parties. If you look at the opinions and the coordination table attached here, you will see that there have been a good number of participants. As far as I know, many have also expressed their views to the Committee on Culture. This process has been slow. Could it have been faster? It is very possible that this would have been possible, but I would point out that I took office when these negotiations had already been concluded in a significant part. So, unfortunately, you must address this question to my predecessors, especially certainly members of the previous government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U242	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You didn't answer my question to the other side. This law talks about online offers and platform services and all that, but I asked a specific question: why, under the copyright law currently in force, our artists' works are not protected, so that all curators can change their names.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U244	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would point out that your question does not apply to the draft that is currently under discussion here in the Riigikogu. But despite this, I point out that works of art are actually protected, they are protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U245	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U246	Good manager! Good waitress! You've been in power for a hundred days, but you filed a bill 30 days ago. That's a small remark. But the question is this: talk a little bit about these e-memes and the riot around them in the context of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U247	Thank you for your question. Let's just say that when you take office, you definitely have to get to know a lot of things. The process of drafting this draft was in the final stages. But let's just say that this process should have been faster to process faster. It was not possible to accelerate much in this final phase. As far as we're concerned, memes are allowed. And that is primarily a question for the platforms when they start presenting them. Let's just say, yes, there was a discussion about how much memoirs can be used and to what extent. But it's possible, memes are not forbidden. So you can keep using these memos.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U248	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U249	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! My question comes out of Mr Grünthal's question when he referred to the exhibition 'Aesthetics of Diversity' and, referring to copyright law, said that, for some reason, the title or title of the work is not protected. You said yes, we have copyright protected. Do I get it right that if someone curator or other third person or someone on any website or on my website or if I publish a piece of work, I rename it, I put a new name on it, we can still read that the work is protected and I am allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U250	Thank you for your question. I would point out once again that your questions do not concern this draft. Just as a work of art is protected, the title of the work is protected. But all these rights have a "time dimension." If there is an old enough piece, then the title is not protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U251	Paul Woodland again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U252	How old must the work be that at least its title is no longer protected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U253	Thank you for your question. I do not understand how a honourable member of the Riigikogu is asking the third question, but I feel that this is such a passionate subject, although it does not concern this bill at all. Well, let's just say this: if the author is dead and the author has been dead for 70 years, then the protection of copyright will cease. I think that information is available elsewhere. But I sincerely hope that the future issues will concern this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U254	Thank you. There are no more questions in this round of questions and everyone could, however, ask no more than two questions. Thank you, Minister. Next comes Üllar Saaremäe, representative of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U255	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu gathered to discuss 368 SEs, the preparation of the law on the amendment of copyright law (transposition of directives on copyright law) initiated by the Government of the Republic for first reading13. 31 April 2021. The chairman was Mr. Aadu Must, the members of the committee were Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Eduard Odines, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Kristiina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice, Gea Lepik, Head of the Department of Intellectual Property and Competition Law of the Ministry of Justice, and Advisor Kärt Nemvalts were invited. Minister Maris Lauri gave an overview of the draft law, which consists of the transposition of two directives, which should be transposed into Estonian law by 7 June 2021. Changes will improve the availability of content to the user. Right holders can better protect their rights and they are better protected. Aadu Black asked if there were any problem areas in the bill. Kärt Nemvalts replied that the problematic issues during the negotiation period of the directives could be divided into two. For example, Article 17 on the obligations of platforms, stamped as a ban on memes, or a link tax, and the rights of press publications. They were a source of very heated debates when directives were developed. In this respect, the directives now have rather balanced solutions, which have not proved problematic in the Estonian procedure. Secondly, Estonia's proceedings have given rise to a lot of discussion about the regulation of author contracts. The compromise reached by stakeholders in four paragraphs: paragraphs 491 to 494. Margit Sutrop referred to paragraph 191 "Free use of service in research for text and data mining purposes" and asked how private companies could freely use the work for text and data mining purposes in order to develop applications of public interest. For example, he introduced applications of language technology. Kärt Nemvalts replied that the current law contains a one-line laconic exception to data mining. The draft directive has substantially supplemented the regulation in paragraph 192. On this basis, free use of the work for text and data mining purposes is also possible outside research, i.e. for commercial purposes. Margit Sutrop asked for an explanation about the storage of data and the processing of data. Kärt Nemvalts replied that the data collected must be stored both in research and outside research. There are no differences. The author's proprietary rights have been an obstacle to copyright. The author's property right, which is actually used for text or data mining, was examined. This means reproduction for copyright purposes. Heidy Purga asked if, for example, the Estonian Public Broadcasting could rely on the exception and make the works in the permanent collection available to the public, and if this would create an additional burden for them. Kärt Nemvalts replied that we were talking about works outside the commercial network. If the draft, in its existing form, enters into force and is put into practice, then the cultural heritage institution, which collects works with which the rightholder no longer wants to make money, is able to make such works available on its website, for example. The cultural heritage institution must have an extended licence agreement with the organisation concerned, i.e. the collecting society. There are currently only four such organisations: authors of musical works, producers of phonograms, performers and audiovisual authors. At the beginning of the year, an organisation of film producers was also established. If there is no such KEO, the cultural heritage institution can use the content on the basis of free use, i.e. without permission and without payment of a fee. According to Heidy Purga, there are many music organisations in Estonia who have been involved in digitisation and have more than 26000 manuscript collections. Purga asked if these organisations had to transfer their databases to the new system in order to be legal. According to Kärt Nemvalts, it is possible that the collection can be placed under the definition of "archive." If organisations wish to make available on their website the content of collections as an archive, they should operate on the basis of the above-mentioned regulation. According to Signe Kivi, there have been visual arts organisations who are trying to develop proposals so that artists can also be rewarded for exhibiting their works at exhibitions in the future. The Stone asked whether the Ministry had been informed about these activities and whether it could be a copyright object in the future. Kärt Nemvalts replied that the author's property right to exhibit a work was not the object of the draft, as such a right already exists for authors. Heidy Purga referred to section 579 (5) of the Copyright Act, according to which measures must be taken to protect the fundamental right of freedom of expression of users when deciding to block the transmission or making available of the content of a platform provider. Heidy Purga asked if there were many cases where the platform provider had either unwittingly or deliberately uploaded content that was inappropriate. And is the transposition of the Directive subject to a greater obligation on the platform provider to enter the content and search for information? Kärt Nemvalts replied that during the preparatory period of the Directive there was a major dispute over this point. A balancing point for users of platforms came into the draft with the adoption of the directives. The draft establishes an obligation for platforms to obtain authorisation from rightholders or their representative organisations. If the rightholders have informed the platform that they do not wish to make their work available on this platform, the platform must prevent the content being uploaded. But it shouldn't be an act of obstruction. All in all, in certain cases, the user has the right to make free use of some content, such as memos, which are possible under the exception. Heidy Purga referred to a situation where the representative organisation is "picking up" the works of YouTube environment that the authors themselves have wanted to put up there. Purga asked who had rights in that case. Kärt Nemvalts referred in his reply to the provision of the Copyright Act, which states that, if the author has made copies of his rights available, making it available to a collecting society, he cannot really do so himself. But the possibility is always to negotiate with the collecting society how to make the agreement so that everyone is satisfied afterwards. Ultimately, collective exercise of rights is beneficial for all members. This is briefly all about the questions and answers that sounded in the Committee on Culture. It was decided to propose to include a consensus decision on the plenary agenda by 5 May 2021, to appoint Üllar Saaremäe as the representative of the commission, as well as a consensual decision, and to propose that the first reading be terminated. This too was decided by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-05_U256	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. We can go to the negotiations. I don't see the wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 368. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline of 19 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Today's agenda is exhausted, the session is adjourned.
