ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! It's Thursday, November 18th. We will begin the session of the 8th working week of the VI plenary session on Thursday. First of all, before we go to the implementation of the sitting, we have the opportunity to listen to the oath of the Minister of the Environment, Erki Savisaare. Erki Savisaar has been appointed Minister of the Environment by decision of the President of the Republic No 13 of 18 November. Please, Mr. Savisaar, you're in the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U2	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U3	We wish the Minister of the Environment every success, strength and strength, a nice meeting for the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U4	Now we move on to the Riigikogu. The members of the Riigikogu are able to deliver drafts and questions. Please! You don't see that wish. Then we'll conduct a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U5	78 members of the Riigikogu registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U6	We have one item on the agenda today, namely the debate on the key national issue "Towards the European Union and Estonia's 2030 climate targets" initiated by the European Union Affairs Committee. Now let me introduce you to how we are handling this today. According to § 153 of the Home and Working Procedures Act, we appointed the next time in the Bureau for this discussion today. First of all, the presentation by Helena Braun, Member of the European Commission's leading vice-president, Frans Timmermans' office, will last up to 15 minutes, for questions to be answered for up to 20 minutes. Then Lauri Tammiste, Director of the Tallinn Centre of the Stockholm Environmental Institute, will give a presentation for up to 15 minutes and 20 minutes for questions and answers. Then a presentation by Mart Noorma, Professor of the University of Tartu, Director of Research and Development of AS Milrem, in the same way 15 minutes for a presentation and 20 minutes for questions-answers. Finally, Siim Kallas, Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, will give a presentation of up to 15 minutes and 20 minutes for questions and answers. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask a single question to each rapporteur. After presentations and questions and answers, we open negotiations where all members of the Riigikogu can perform. But we have a request that there be first speeches from the political groups. When we conclude this debate, the Riigikogu will not take a separate decision. We will probably also need to extend the hearing, but we will come back to that later. This request has already come from the European Union Affairs Committee. All right, let's get to the agenda debate. I have the honour, pleasure and opportunity to invite Helena Braun, a member of the office of Vice-President of the European Commission, to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U7	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you very much for this kind invitation here today to stand before you and to describe the climate and energy package adopted by the European Commission in July this year. But before I tell you a little bit more about what this package is, I would, however, stop for a moment in the green deal and repeat why it is necessary at all. The problem is that we are facing two very, very serious crises today, which are existential crises without exaggeration. These are the biodiversity crisis and the climate crisis, and they have been caused by the way we have used our natural environment and its resources so far. For example, let us look at Europe today. We live as if we have the resources of three planets at our disposal. But the thing is that the climate and biodiversity crisis is not a nature conservation issue for nature itself. It has a huge negative socio-economic impact. If, for example, we look at the forecasts of the World Economic Forum in recent years, we can see that they consider both the biodiversity crisis and climate change to be the greatest and at the same time the most likely threats to mankind. It is very logical in this sense that more than half of the world's gross domestic product depends on nature and its benefits, and three of our largest economic sectors are completely dependent on it, building, agriculture and the food and drink industries. The effects are increasingly felt. We have seen very large floods, storms, heat waves in Europe in recent years, also this year. They have made thousands of sacrifices, destroyed forests and crops, as well as increased our need for cooling and our electricity bills. The warmer the climate, the more frequent these extreme weather conditions become, and the more widespread and negative, of course, their impact on people's lives and health will become. Thus, according to the European Commission, the implementation of the Green Contract and the Green Growth Strategy is now the only socio-economically rational way forward. Of course, we often hear how expensive the changes that need to be made are. But here we really must not forget that, if we do nothing, the more expensive human lives will disappear, there will be huge migration, regions will become uninhabitable, and many important economic sectors will be completely destroyed if there is any adequate price tag on it. On the positive side, however, it is good that Europe has seen this great challenge as an opportunity to turn to its advantage. In order to deal with the climate and biodiversity crisis, all the countries of the European Union, including Estonia during the previous government, have approved the objectives of the European Green Agreement. We have all collectively decided that the carbon-intensive economy has survived its time, that by 2050 the European Union's economy will be climate-neutral and that economic growth will no longer go hand in hand with the ever-increasing use of natural resources. The agreement as a whole, as well as the concrete package that we are going to be talking about today, will give European industry and businesses a clear direction on which to invest and what to prioritise in the coming decades at all. It is also clear that the first mover always has the advantage. Since the green economy is the only possible future economy, it is worth being a standard and a stepmaker rather than a later adaptor. Today, both the European Union and Estonia, our people and businesses, have an excellent opportunity to be the author, market and exporter of these clean technologies, clean products and services, as well as new innovative business models and, of course, the primary beneficiary. As a result, according to all analyses, a very large number of jobs can be created in almost all sectors of the economy: renewable energy, construction, renovation, transport, agriculture and the restoration of nature. Of course, it is very important to stress here that the component of social justice is fundamental in the Green Agreement. No one, no region must be neglected, neglected in this change, because in the end, and this is a very important point to emphasise, that the transition to the green economy is only a means. It is a means of preserving and raising people's well-being, not an end in itself. Before going to the details of this legislative package, one could mention that the Green Agreement is one whole, all of which are interlinked and interdependent. Therefore, the parts that were not included in the package in July are also of key importance for us to reach the objectives of this package in the European Union [to be met] and climate neutrality. But certainly the "Fit for 55" package presented in July is one of the most important parts of this whole. Today, both climate neutrality in 2050 and the 2030 interim target are at least 55% emissions reduction in Europe's legal obligations. These commitments have been made jointly by all the Member States of the European Union, including Estonia. They must now be met collectively and, of course, jointly and severally. A little bit of the package. Nearly all the Directorates and Commissioners were involved in its preparation within the European Commission. Previously, very in-depth impact assessments were carried out as well as broad stakeholder involvement. As a result of all this preparatory work, the Commission has proposed a combination of proposals that are as balanced as possible, so that we can achieve the objective, on the one hand, and so that all sectors of the economy contribute, but we would do so in such a way that no one is disproportionately burdened and that sufficient financial resources are provided to help implement it. Broadly speaking, the proposals include these ten points on the second slide. Firstly, we have proposed tightening up the existing EU emissions trading system. It is proposed to lower the overall emission limit and accelerate its annual reduction. In addition, it is foreseen that future revenues from the sale of emission units will be used to 100% of the climate targets. It is also proposed to extend the emissions trading scheme to maritime transport and to phase out emission allowances allocated free of charge to aviation. Secondly, it is proposed to establish a new, separate emissions trading scheme for the road transport and buildings sectors in 2026. Under this proposal, fuel sellers who are not yet part of the emissions trading scheme would start buying emission credits according to the carbon intensity of their energy sources. It is important to stress here that this new system regulates fuel suppliers, not households and drivers. But, of course, in order to prevent potential social impacts on consumers, the Commission has proposed the creation of a new Social Fund for Climate Action, from which both Estonia and other Member States would receive significant financial resources. Thirdly, we have proposed to make the regulation on shared commitments more ambitious, taking into account, of course, the starting position and the ability of each Member State to achieve these objectives. This means that each Member State will be subject to higher reduction targets for buildings, road transport, domestic maritime transport, agriculture, waste and small industry. On road transport, as this is a separate challenge, CO2 emissions standards are also proposed, which are stricter for passenger cars and vans. As a result, from 2035 all new registered cars in the European Union would be free of emissions. And, of course, the development of a proper charging and refueling network is also envisaged, as it will otherwise not be possible to implement this mobility change. Moreover, it is fundamental to speed up the overall transition to a green energy system, as 75% of the EU's emissions come from energy production and use. That is why the 2030 target set in the Renewable Energy Directive is higher than the current 32% target, so that 40% of our energy is generated from renewable energy sources. As part of this proposal, it is also proposed to strengthen the rules applicable to the use of bioenergy. With regard to Estonia, for example, the Commission has expressed some concern that Estonia has a very high share of woody biomass in the use of renewable energy, and it would be useful to consider whether this forest material could increasingly be directed towards long-lived timber products, and perhaps also to look at logging pressures as natural carbon sinks in Estonia are declining. With regard to natural sinks, we can move on to the next proposal. Indeed, all Member States have agreed in the Climate Law to increasingly remove CO2 from the atmosphere by means of natural sinks such as forests. That is why the package sets a higher overall EU CO2 target by 2030. In addition, climate neutrality should be achieved in the LULUCF and agriculture sectors by 2035. The European Union's forest strategy was also an important component that was adopted together with the package. It is not a legally binding document, but it is still important to implement it in order to improve the situation of forests in the European Union and to ensure that there is enough forest at all that can play the role of a natural interconnector. Next, I would like to mention the proposal to amend the Energy Efficiency Directive. It is clear that energy needs to be used more sustainably as a whole, and this should lead to a doubling of the Member States' annual energy saving commitment. In addition, an amendment to the Energy Taxation Directive has been proposed in order to bring it into line with climate policy, to support clean technologies due to the tax system and to abolish outdated tax exemptions and reduced tax rates which are still conducive to the use of fossil fuels. Finally, I would like to highlight the proposal to introduce a new carbon border mechanism. Its aim is to prevent the market position of EU companies from being worse than that of non-EU companies in relation to potential carbon leakage. As a result, third-country operators would also be obliged to pay for emissions when importing goods into the European Union market. The global dimension as a whole has a very important role to play both in the European Green Agreement and in this particular package. It is clear that we can be guides, but the European Union alone will not solve the climate and biodiversity crisis. And as a result, green diplomacy is of great importance, in addition to our market power. It has to be said that, thanks to the active work of the European Union, quite important steps were taken at the COP26 climate conference in the newly concluded world, the hope of keeping the Earth's temperature up to 1.5 degrees was maintained. This, of course, requires a strong effort, but it is possible. We are also working very actively to reach a meaningful agreement next year at the COP15 conference on global biodiversity in China. With the time I have here, I can only give a very brief overview of this very multifaceted legislative package, a certain mosaic. We can only advise Estonia to analyse this package in very detailed terms, and if there is something in the package that is not suitable, then very specific alternatives should still be proposed, because we must reach 55%, we must reach climate neutrality, that is a joint legal commitment. But, of course, above all, Estonia would be encouraged to look at the many economic resources, opportunities, financial instruments that are quite unprecedented and come with the package, with a green turn as a whole. A small country like Estonia, which has still been at the forefront of several fronts in the European Union, could have a lot to win, especially when combining these green opportunities with our advanced digital world. Finally, perhaps it could be said that in some way Europe is now operating as it was 20 years ago. Even then, everyone knew that digitalisation was necessary, but Estonia created its digital state first and has obviously reaped huge economic benefits, not to mention that we have been the founders of the standard in the world. Similarly, now the European Union, including of course Estonia, can be the one who will shape this new green economy according to its own rules, shape it and perhaps take the most advantage of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U8	Thank you very much for this thorough presentation. The members of the Riigikogu can now ask you. Martin Repinski will start, and this question will come online. If you look at the screen on your left, that questioner should show up there. Please, Martin!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U9	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for this good review. There was much talk of new responsibilities aimed at ensuring that our children and grandchildren would have at least as good a place to live on this planet as we do. Unfortunately, all these investments need money. My question is: what instruments is the European Union proposing to implement the green turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U10	Thank you very much for this question. In fact, as I mentioned earlier, there is an unprecedented amount of resources. A very high percentage of our next agreed budget plan will have to be used by Member States for climate investment anyway. 37% of the recovery funding is for climate investment and 20% for digital solutions, which, if combined, a country like Estonia could have very many opportunities. Of course, as has been mentioned, social justice and a fair transition have a fundamental role to play in the Green Agreement. A Fair Transition Fund has been set up specifically for the transition of certain regions. Moreover, as has been mentioned, the creation of a new emissions trading scheme for road transport and buildings would also be accompanied by a new social fund, which would equally be able, depending on the individual Member State's own discretion, which they most need to help families who are unable to cope or who are at risk of doing so. At the same time, of course, entrepreneurship could also be helped to change and to switch to all this carbon neutral transport and building. Not to mention that it has been proposed to increase the ambition of the ETS in terms of the modernisation fund and the innovation fund, which will again provide huge additional opportunities directly to businesses, but of course also to countries. There's a lot of resources. But, of course, it is not very easy in the sense that Member States need to plan, watch and think very strategically, in fact, decades ahead of them, where it would make sense to direct them. The instruments themselves exist and the principle of social justice is absolutely fundamental.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U11	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U12	Thank you! It's really good for me to keep going. It is good to hear you confirm that this transition must be fair and that it is, in fact, the basis for new growth in Europe. All in all, a very positive plan. In Estonia, however, its reception has been somewhat reluctant. I wanted to ask you how much and whether Estonia would rather win or lose, but you already responded very nicely. Instead, I would ask about this broader picture of Europe. Are Estonia's challenges in implementing the "Fit for 55" package similar to those of other countries? Is any part of the package more critical than others? Are there camping or teams among the Member States who want the plan to be even more ambitious or who want to slow down? Please describe this broader picture and the lines of force between Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U13	Thank you very much for this question. However, the official positions of the Member States are still evolving, so in this sense I am not yet able to describe exactly the official positions. But in general, it's not everything. There are some Member States that have already indicated that they have certain concerns due to their specificity. For example, the Member States close to Estonia and Estonia have individualised that when it comes to natural carbon sinks, forests, all of this, are we really able to implement it? Also, for example, with regard to increasing the ambition of the sharing of responsibilities regulation, certain challenges in agriculture and transport. Well, the challenges are different. Other countries may not have so much natural resources, but they have something else, such as a very high dependence on tourism or a completely different transport challenge. Once again, they have concerns. But, of course, there are also those who think that the package should have been more ambitious. As I mentioned, the package was well preceded by in-depth impact analyses and, of course, consultation with a wide range of stakeholders. The Commission as a whole was involved with almost all Commissioners, and already a number of things came out of it during the negotiations. As a result, we too feel that this package of proposals is still as balanced as possible. Just in the sense that everyone has to bet. There is nothing to do, but we believe that we should see more opportunities than any loss. We must also look at the situation from the point of view of these funds and at the fact that the European Union has decided that we are experiencing a corona crisis, but we will come out stronger, better. We are not investing in yesterday's economy, we are directing our money to the development of the green economy. This has been very positive, and the countries themselves have seen this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U14	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U15	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, manager. Thank you, waitress, for a good presentation. You also briefly touched on the transport sector in your report and on the objective that, from 2035 onwards, all registered means of transport should be free of emissions. As we know, there are very many scattered rural areas in Estonia, where transport is particularly important. Let's face it, these people aren't very rich to buy new cars. I ask how the rural transport problem will be solved and how long these old cars can be driven.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U16	Thank you very much for your question. From time to time, it seems that, in the context of this package, there has somehow been a misconception, such as removing all cars with an internal combustion engine from the road from 2035 and allowing the whole of Europe to drive electric or hydrogen cars. It's not like that. There are two main points in the proposals on passenger cars and vans and in the proposals on road transport at all. One is to raise the CO2 standards to what standards new cars will have to meet from 2035, but here we are still talking about those cars that are still coming on the market when they are new. The focus of the existing fleet is primarily on improving fuel quality, the transition to cleaner fuels. So in this sense, there is no need to fear that, according to these proposals, cars with an internal combustion engine will be taken off the road in 15 years' time. But what we are seeing and why this 2035 target for CO2 is being set is that, by looking at the bigger car manufacturers in Europe and beyond, their own targets, above all in the production of electric cars, are sometimes more ambitious than what this proposal envisages. There is no doubt that this fleet will be like this in the future. Of course, we are technology-neutral, although it can be seen that certain technologies are currently preferred by manufacturers themselves and see them as having the greatest market potential. But yes, as far as the existing fleet is concerned, the [objective] is primarily the movement of cleaner fuels and the standards that form part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U17	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Well, actually, we really need change, but my question right now focuses not so much on the European Union, but on the outside. It seems to me that the European Union has paid too little attention to how to maintain relations in order to avoid a trade war when we start implementing carbon stocks. Developing countries, and not only developing countries, have at times been sceptical about the relationship between this pace of transition, to say the least. And perhaps an even bigger problem is how to control countries with authoritarian power, such as Russia, China, Belarus, Iran, on this list can go on for a long time to provide the right data. I don't believe in them, and I haven't seen any such thing as how to get reliable data from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U19	Thank you very much. This is a global issue, and the European Union's place in this global context is extremely important, so in that sense it is very relevant. The package does not ignore it in any way, nor does it ignore the challenge that comes with it. However, on the one hand, it is clear what we saw, for example, at the recently concluded COP26 climate conference. We know that there is one of the most carbon-intensive economies that has promised climate neutrality. Climate neutrality promises have now been made by a very large number of countries, including those for whom the transition to a carbon neutral economy is even more difficult than that of the European Union. For example, Saudi Arabia, which has based its entire economy on oil exports, has recently joined with the objective of carbon neutrality. Let's just say that promises are [existent] and we may have faith greater than ever that something is happening. In addition, there are very concrete positive things that we notice, such as the same emissions trading system. In many countries it already exists, many come to us, ask how to put it in place. Others are looking at the carbon tax. That's the direction everyone's headed. We're just a little bit of a senior position because we already have a good system that works. And we have also noticed that, despite the state regime, the European Union market is still extremely attractive. We are still the largest market on a global scale, and if we set some standards, we will gradually see how they can be taken over in order to be able to enter our market at all. In this sense, too, I would not underestimate the impact of the European Union, and I would again point out a few examples from the COP26 conference that, as soon as the European Union said in December 2019 that climate neutrality would come, many countries followed well. As soon as we said in September this year, President von der Leyen said that the European Union is increasing climate finance to third countries quite strongly, President Biden of the United States did exactly the same. Quite a lot of diplomatic work has been done, above all, in the direction of China, obviously, because without China on board, it is very difficult for us to solve problems. Firstly, China has promised that they will no longer support coal mines outside their territory. It is also the case for a country like China, which was agreed at COP26, that a clear direction was taken that there is, in principle, no future in the production of coal or that the future is very, very limited, once again is a very positive sign. Finally, Turkey, for example, can be mentioned. The European Union has used quite a lot of its political capital, and now finally Turkey has signed the Paris climate agreement. The problem is understandable. But let us look at these promises, look at the economic interest of these countries in gaining access to our market and, generally speaking, taking into account the pressure of companies, the climate and biodiversity crisis is a huge threat to the sustainability of business. Let us see what pressure comes from transport companies, banking, the financial sector and food production companies. They simply demand these rules more and more. However, as a combination of all of this, we are quite positive because we see that yes, we have to be those stepmakers, and we see that there is a lot to gain from it. [We] are followed and not just because they want to follow, but because it is the most rational socio-economically rational thing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U20	Natalia Malleus, please! Natalia, we can't hear you! Let's take the next question, time goes on. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U21	[[It's a remote link.]] Hi! Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I have some of the same question you answered. When I look at what's going on in the wide world and at the goals you described, what we're about to adopt and which we're heading towards, which there's no reason to question, I have a question about setting the bar. Are we not putting it too much above others and, in the end, we are not harming the competition of our economy and business? What is the basis of your conviction that the rest of the world will come so easily for it? You're saying they're moving in that direction because it's reasonable, not because they're following. But when I look at these steps and actions, I have not developed this conviction.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U22	Thank you very much. First of all, I would point out that this bar set by the European Union is science-based, evidence-based. This is what we need to do in the 2030 perspective, so that we have the capacity to be climate-neutral by 2050. This is necessary to keep climate change under control. These losses, and the costs that arise from delaying our actions, are much, much higher than the costs that we would now incur. What I said about other countries, yes, I do repeat that, after COP26 and all the bilateral discussions that preceded it between the European Union and other countries, we have no reason for pessimism. We see that everyone is inevitably moving in this direction, and companies are exerting great pressure to do so. Let us think of the fact that banking, the financial sector, the World Economic Forum, all of them see the climate and biodiversity crisis as the greatest risk to their own sustainability, economic coping. I see no reason for pessimism. If we act quickly now, if everyone is going in this direction anyway, then we can still be at the forefront and also give the European Union meaning and future in the context of the world for the next decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U23	Mrs Braun, thank you very much for this presentation and for answering the questions. Now it's time for our next report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have emptied the round of questions and allow everyone to re-register for questions. The speech chair of the Riigikogu is expected by Lauri Tammiste, Director of the Tallinn Centre of the Stockholm Environmental Institute. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U24	Hi! And just as much thanks for inviting me here to talk about it and discuss it. For technical reasons, I don't think you can see my slides, but they've been e-mailed to you and we'll try to make it. In my presentation, I will focus on how important this proposal for "Objective 55" is and what it could mean for Estonia, precisely in the scientific view. Looking at the social reactions to this package, it seems that a lot has been asked why it is suddenly so urgent and why so much is needed at the same time. This package, which was presented here by the previous speaker, is really ambitious; it has many components; it concerns very, very many areas. The simple answer to why it is suddenly so urgent is that we have wasted a lot of time just to discuss, re-analyze and debate, whether climate change is, what they are, what solutions might be, whether it is necessary to act now or in 10 years' time or in 20 years' time, and what it all costs. As a result, we are now in a rather poor state, the analysis of the international climate panel published this year unambiguously said that this is the last warning for mankind. We have actually been talking about the problems of greenhouse gases and climate change for over a hundred years. In 1896 the later nobelist Svante Arrhenius published a study and showed that greenhouse gas emissions, including CO2 emissions, and their concentrations in the atmosphere, are beginning to affect temperature. Already in 1912 appeared in the journal Popular Mechanics article which said that coal burning adds [atmosphere] significantly compared to natural processes, greenhouse gases. At that time, [burning] volumes were thought to pose a problem for mankind in perhaps 100 to 200 years' time. The [Actual] pace with which we are going to add [growing gases into the atmosphere], of course, was not foreseen at that time. In 1965, for US President Lyndon Johnson, for the first time, top scientists in the US did a well-summary analysis of what this problem of greenhouse gases and CO2 means. Already in this report in 1965, all the potential risks, many of which are already being realised: in terms of weather phenomena, in terms of rising sea levels, in terms of rising temperature, in terms of the impact on agriculture. It is somewhat sad that looking back, we can say that science has been surprisingly accurate. Climate models, including the simpler climate models for which many details were not yet known, were able to predict quite well what would happen to the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere and what would happen to global temperatures. All these later decades have actually added only details. Trajectory and the fact that this is a major problem, not a minor problem, have been known. All this time, when we have been discussing whether or not we should do anything, has led us to find the task much harder. If, in 2000, apart from the 1992 climate convention and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, the right actions had been taken, it would have been a 'down turn', how we should have adapted our lives, economy and society, much flatter. Today we are there that we must do a very, very big job in ten years. We can also say that, apart from COP26, we are actually there that, even in the most optimistic scenario, if all promises are implemented in the 2030 and 2050 views on time, and even in those promises that are not quite binding, there will be activities, financing by all countries, even then we will be somewhere between 1.5 and 1.8 and 2 degrees. By continuing our policy so far, by putting these things into practice, the measures that we are now planning, we are more at 2.7 degrees. That's a very bad course. Johan Rockström, director of the Potsdam Climate Institute, one of the most important, best known climate scientists, has said very well. He said that this goal of 1.5 degrees is not a 'negotiation position', an object of trade, but a very clear scientific boundary, from where on the negative effects begin to escalate exponentially. The second question, which has been asked a lot for decades, and is actually being asked now, is this: is this package, is this climate policy not overpowering our economy? However, looking at science, history, in 2007, the English economist Nicholas Stern completed a very, very important work called the Stern Review. In this he was looking at exactly what the economic impacts would be at global level if these climate risks were realised, what their price tag would be, versus starting to invest in time and trying to prevent these problems. The conclusion was not very surprising: it is cheaper to prevent problems than to deal with their consequences. This question has been asked over and over again, because it still seems, as with climate models, that maybe there is something different or maybe there is more wisdom. Let's take a look at the latest assessment. The European Central Bank carried out an analysis of the European Union, looking at 1600 banking groups and over four million companies, and assessed the effects of European climate policy. There was also a question of [economic impacts] when climate risks materialise, versus when Europe implements its climate policy. The study was completed in September this year and came to a similar conclusion that today's climate risks will materialise at a price higher for Europe, society and the economy than when you start investing in the right scale, at the right pace, at the right time. But, of course, they pointed out that these effects, negative effects and positive effects are not evenly distributed between countries, regions or households. Of course, it is a question of political choices how to make it sensible and good and useful for Estonia as well as at European level as a whole. I will simply give an example of the price tag of climate risks in a single year if one climate risk materialises. California's forest fires in 2018, the cost per capita, the economic loss of $2688. We put aside the SEI analysis that we carried out in 2019 and in which we pointed out that achieving climate neutrality in Estonia would mean 17 billion investments in the private and public sector in the implementation of 60 measures. If we divide it equally over 30 years and over the population of Estonia, the cost would be about 440 euros per person per year. [This was an example] of one climate damage. Of course, we can say that this is California and, as far as we are concerned, it does not concern us. But Estonia is so integrated with the global economy that all such things will reach us, even the same California forest fire. In research published in Nature Sustainability, it was estimated that 31% of these effects were actually outside California, or the transmission effect was evident. The rest of the US economy and elsewhere was transferred from total damage to 148 billion, one third. In the same way, all this will come about if there is something bad in Spain or there are floods in Germany or there are environmental problems in China, our economy. We are a small, highly integrated global economy. So in this view too, it makes sense, on the one hand, to see how we can make the most of it in terms of improving Estonia's quality of life and solving environmental problems, but also to contribute in solidarity to being less vulnerable to climate risks as a member of Europe and the global economy. It is positive that, although it was always said for years that green and environmentally friendly solutions are expensive, the IEA estimates that for many years the use of clean energy sources, sun and wind has been the cheapest way of producing energy. It is predicted that the demand for clean solutions will increase very much, especially when all other regions and countries start to follow in the same way. Perhaps Europe is a few years ahead of others, but it could be seen as an advantage rather than a bad thing. So, yes, there are many positive and encouraging messages about science. But there are, of course, many buts. For example, one economic factor is that these positive effects are socio-economic, i.e. have an impact on public health. For example, reducing emissions will result in some sort of reduction in health costs and better investment in school energy efficiency will lead to students being able to improve their learning performance through a scientific study of ventilation and lighting, affecting learning ability, the ability to acquire [knowledge]. But you can't see it in "Excel," financially. So the problem is that what is optimal and desirable at the social, socio-economic level is not always attractive at the micro level of a private person, household or company. So, what do you need to do? [To figure out] how to provide these signals, how to create a framework to make it attractive, more economically viable, at the so-called micro-level, at the level of businesses and households. Another big thing is that the capacity and the opportunity to make changes vary from country to country. Let me give you some very simple examples. The renewable energy potential of some has a long coastline and can make sea wind parks, some do not. Some countries have great hydropower or bioenergy potential, some do not. Natural resources for carbon sequestration in Europe are very diverse, in terms of forest cover and in other respects. Similarly, the current starting position with regard to the technological capacity of universities and companies, whether they are importers of solutions, or whether they are very different from one country to another. In some countries there is a great heritage of the fossil economy, there are problems, for example in Ida-Virumaa. There is a problem that needs to be solved, in some other place there is no such inheritance. And the same thing that has already been discussed here, the possibility for families with lower incomes to make changes, they may want to know that their home would indeed be more energy efficient or their vehicle would have less emissions, but if they do not have the means and opportunities to do so, then this change can come from those target groups that have the means. In order to involve all social groups in change, a very smart and targeted policy is needed to get on board those with fewer opportunities to contribute to change. What would be a realistic strategy for Estonia? Certainly not to try to hide your head in the sand. The realistic strategy and the starting point for smart choices should be that we are only discussing how to implement 'Objective 55' wisely, how to make smart choices in this context, smart choices at Estonian level, in negotiations in the European Union, in Europe as a whole. [It is necessary to] take action immediately. Already in the 2019 analysis, we said that there are very many low-hanging fruits that are cost-effective and exist. Similarly, the IEA has said that 40% of the total road up to 2030 is cost-effective, i.e. economic savings, today. 40% of the road already exists today. [must] focus on measures that have a number of positive effects, not just in terms of reducing emissions, but specifically on how to improve quality of life, [ensure] better planned city, better organised public transport. These are examples of what do several [positive] things at once...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U25	Good waitress, do you need a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U26	I think I can handle one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U27	In one minute? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U28	Just [needs] to significantly increase investment in these cost-effective solutions and leave more expensive, complex problems at the end of the decade. Speaking of 2030, we do not have to do all things today at the same time, but we start with cost-effective, sensible things. Let's leave the rest at the end of the period. And let's focus on social justice. If there is no fair transition, then I think society will not go along with it. Last but not least, by investing in R &amp; D, innovation, retraining, addressing environmental challenges will be linked to creating a competitive advantage for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U29	Let's move on to the questions. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U30	Thank you. However, climate policy is also an information war and it must be acknowledged that politicians do not have very good sources of information to take quickly. We were crazed back and forth in this hall, even at the level of a member of the Board of the Riigikogu, about how nothing can be done or why, for example, the construction of a windmill produces more CO2 than savings. Forest fires too, although they themselves are the consequence of climate change, produce much more CO2 than man produces, not to mention that the climate has always changed. Can you comment on these three things? And could you ask them for details? These are frequently asked questions, but it's hard to find the facts when people talk like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U31	Thank you. I'll try to answer that. The question is about the 'life cycle', right, from the production and introduction of a solution to what happens to him after use. Of course, these issues need to be looked at, and that makes sense. It seems to me that Europe is moving more and more towards this, because otherwise, without taking into account the footprint of production, sometimes it may seem like a good solution, but it may not actually be, as was the case with the first generation of biofuels. As far as windmills are concerned, I would like to see this analysis, because I certainly do not believe [the argument], the same is said for electric cars. Analyses that have undergone scientific peer review are those where the whole methodology is reviewed. All kinds of reports can be made and put up on the Internet, where they begin to spread very quickly. However, according to scientific analyses, which have passed pre-screening, quality control, it can be said that, for example, an electric car, not even using the purest electricity, has already had a clear positive effect since passing through a certain distance. Similarly, windmills and solar panels certainly have a positive effect. So, yes, there are such studies. I think that the choices should certainly be made on the basis that the solutions actually solve the problem. Help me remember what the next question was.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U32	Let's take the next question. Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U33	Thank you. Very good review! I think we certainly have a lot of opportunities here in this package, but also a lot of challenges. Here I fully agree with the previous speaker that there is a lot of information and maybe there is some sort of noise. I will give you an example of this, and I will ask you a question at the end. For the LULUCF sector, this package is intended to achieve a net removal of 38% of greenhouse gases across the European Union. For the Member States, there is also a table showing that Estonia's commitment to binding would increase by 409%. It's one of the biggest. In fact, Finland and Portugal should reduce interconnection. Here's my question. You belong to the Prime Minister's expert committee. How much can such negotiations be held between the Estonian state and the European Commission to make the messages clearer later?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U34	Looking at how all these major packages have been discussed in the past, there are certainly opportunities to negotiate. I think that the main thing for Estonia right now is to think clearly about which tasks seem more difficult and which tasks seem to be done better. There is probably room to negotiate in order to say that perhaps we are doing more in some sectors, because we actually have a lot of good preconditions for renewable energy in the electricity sector. And then there are some sectors that we can say that this proposal seems a little complicated to us. It may well be that the number proposed by this LULUCF today is perhaps too big a bite or too hard to do. When I look at all these proposals to increase ambition in different sectors, it seems to be one of those that is not so easy to do. Although it is true that Estonia has no so-called natural obstacle to doing so, it is precisely this balance in terms of climate objectives, biodiversity objectives and the use and enhancement of bio-resources. That's to look for a balance. So it could probably be one of the places to negotiate.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U35	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would turn to other paths with my question. Population growth in the world is certainly one of the factors why we have such a momentum for global warming, which is where this consumption has come from and so it goes on. Let's look at population growth. In 2019, the corresponding U.S. office estimated a population of 7.6 billion people, and in 2006 it had been 6.5 billion, with an increase of more than one billion over 13 years. Let's think that if we want to slow down the growth of carbon, we have to deal with this too. Why hasn't there been any attention? What is the reason why this is completely excluded from this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U37	I think it's very complicated. [I do not know] how the European Union could approach proposing quotas in the negotiations, that if you want to trade with Europe, your population growth could be like this and this. I think the default assumption is that we are dealing with things that are more realistic to achieve in order to bring emissions down, to increase the use of so-called resources. But, of course, if you take it historically, European development aid in Africa and elsewhere, and international donor aid, among other things, has focused very much on family planning policies and, at the same time, women's rights, women's choice, their role in society, their whole family policy, the question of the choice of having children. It has been dealt with, but I do not think that this is an achievable or realistic way of solving the climate problem. I think that it is more acceptable and realistic to reach agreements and achieve [the objective] through the use of clean technologies.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U38	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Lauri Tammiste! I will grasp what you have said: a very smart and targeted policy is needed to achieve a good result, which means, frankly, that it does not overheat the planet. You run the Tallinn Centre of the Stockholm Environmental Institute and we know that the competitive situation always benefits every ambitious person and country. Is there any way that you can point out what we from the Nordic countries or Sweden themselves would now have to take as an example in order to achieve these objectives? Anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U40	Yeah, there's a lot of things. In my opinion, the positive thing is that it is unambiguously focused on how to make this issue into a good future for Sweden, a question of competitiveness. This agreement or acceptance has been reached. I think it's a very strong base, and from there, things are getting easier. If we agree that this is the starting point and on this we will build a better quality of life and competitiveness for the future, then the next things will come more easily. What is being done in Sweden? There was the adoption of the Climate Act in 2018 and an annual report is being prepared, and we are now reviewing whether or not we have contributed to further steps. And the big, big deal is that Swedish companies have come behind it. The business sectors are guided by so-called sectoral road maps, how to decarbonise one sector or another. Businesses themselves have been lucky, companies with universities have done so. One example of the steel industry. This, one of Sweden's largest industrial sectors with CO2 emissions, energy consumption and environmental footprints at all, made a roadmap and said they wanted to reach climate-neutral steel production. Where are they now? They already have their first pilot station ready. Built. The production process is going to use hydrogen. The result of this is that it is as if people are saying whether or not there can be a positive impact on 'coming ahead'. The German car industry has turned to Sweden, said that, listen, we also want to show that we are reducing our carbon footprint, we want to start buying steel from you. This is specifically the result, the cream that you rake when you walk ahead. I think that learning is precisely to focus on the next step and on all sectors of universities, businesses, the state, local authorities, to work together.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U41	Merry Aart, please! Yes, please, Merry!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U42	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U43	Fine. Yeah, I can hear you, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U44	I don't know if you can hear me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U45	Yeah, I can hear you, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U46	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you for this presentation. I ask in this way that indeed there are very different analyses and there are very different writings, very different opinions. As far as food production is concerned, for example, the University of Kiel has said that as a result the European Union will become a net importer from a net exporter and environmental damage will be transferred to third countries, but this will lead to significant price increases for the consumer. There are many of these negative things, too. Do you know that, when the European Commission adopted the objective, the strategy in June, has the impact assessment or impact assessment been formally endorsed by the European Commission? Where can I find it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U47	I'm sure my previous speaker knows everything in detail. But general, macro-level assessments have been made for all these packages. Of course, taking different assumptions, for example, on the cost of capital or on the price of the depreciation of a technology, or whether or not there are carbon border taxes, which groups [they come], how to protect the food sector on the basis of these assumptions may result in a change in results. In this light, I think it might rather be seen in a way that today's situation is a start, it is not a finish. I think it is rather important that this fundamental decision and the understanding that change is needed in all sectors. It is not enough that we make a change only in one sector, only in the energy sector. I think that this is the most important message of 'Objective 55', that in fact changes must take place in all sectors. In fact, all the work that follows over the coming years is to lay down in detail what can be done, how to do it, and how to do it in a way that is socially fair. At the same time, however, the climate and biodiversity crisis cannot be compromised. The choices must still be within the limits of solving this problem. I wouldn't take it all for granted. What has happened historically in other sectors that have been more engaged in reducing greenhouse gas emissions? There is one conclusion. This year, I think the University of Oxford published a study reviewing all forecasts for the last 20 years. Their conclusion was that the speed of innovation was systematically underestimated, i.e. that all forecasts to date have underestimated the rapid depreciation of clean solutions. I think that now that we are talking about food and agriculture, where perhaps only the first steps are being taken or those steps have been less taken, there is a similar situation that wait-wait, it seems to be an unsolvable task, too expensive, too difficult. I think it's gonna be the same thing. Those countries that are bolder invest more in innovation and development. And at some point we see that the number of economically sensible solutions is increasing and progress is accelerating. So I wouldn't just assess the possibilities for change according to today's situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U48	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you for this very good overview. There are certainly already these solutions in Estonian food production. I think eAgronom is a good example. But now the question. Since you are also working at the Green Turn Steering Committee, will the Roadmap of the Climate Package Steering Committee, which is being drafted, [and the Green Turn Road Map] also take one step in time? Can we already take these proposals into account in the negotiations with the European Union, which come into the green turn of the Estonian road map?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U50	The exchange of information is ongoing. I have been asked to ensure communication with the steering committee of our group of scientists and entrepreneurs, led by the Prime Minister and the key ministers are members. I have taken part in these discussions to see exactly where the government is now and, on the other hand, maybe to comment on the last time a few weeks ago, I have just commented that we have discussed some of the problems in the expert group and on this basis would recommend or give feedback. Yeah, technically, it's kind of like keeping a bunch of balloons in the air. Time is pushing, the government is already going to have to negotiate some positions, on the other hand, our expert group is also creating... But as a result of our constant communication, we can still give some input and suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U51	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U52	Thank you, thank you very much. I actually wanted to ask a question to the previous waitress, but I couldn't. Thank you, of course, and the previous waitress, Helena Braun, for her excellent presentation. I would like to ask about the fact that this climate policy is indeed being dealt with very closely at the level of governments, but communication is also important here, because, in the end, people are also responsible not only for governments, countries and businesses. My question is this: has any communication policy been considered, or is there something under consideration, in order to reach people, to change their behaviour, to change their way of thinking, so that climate policy finally becomes a reality?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U53	I think that is perhaps even the hardest question on this subject. That is a very correct question. We can really make all kinds of plans, experts can calculate, calculate and recommend, but if they don't reach companies and people, they will remain plans. In this sense, I can already say preconceivedly, I think one of our strong recommendations to the government is precisely that a very thoughtful plan is made to communicate it. For our part in the group of experts, of course, we are ambassadors for this message in our sectors, we are constantly communicating with different organisations, but ultimately our group's work is one-off. We will make recommendations, thoughts and proposals by the end of February. But this is a very long process, the whole 'Objective 55' and making a green turn is one very long process, and in so doing, I think, the real key issue is how to ensure very good communication there. It is not enough that environmental awareness has been increased for years through the KIC. One thing is to know what's important, but the other is how to give a clearly targeted message so that some target group starts changing their behavior.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U54	Mr Tammiste, thank you very much for this presentation. The time has come to an end and the questions of the members of the Riigikogu have also come to an end. We will proceed with the presentation of Mart Noorma, Professor of the University of Tartu, Research and Development Director of AS Milrem. Ladies and gentlemen, please focus on the screen as Mart Noorma joins us online. Professor Mart Noorma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U55	[[Remote connection]] Good morning. I welcome you from sunny Rome. I am here at the NATO-Industrial Cooperation Forum, which is interesting because climate change and the environment are also gaining more and more attention in the defence sector. This year's major conference, which is taking place here, has also been through the presentations several times. On the technical side, I have no slides, but I very much hope that all respected members of the Riigikogu have received this one-page memo with the main points of my speech. It must have been sent out to you early this morning. The waitresses so far have basically described what needs to be changed and why, what we are trying to achieve. But I am talking about one concrete pragmatic example of how to achieve these goals in cooperation between businesses, research institutions and the public sector, and these changes. If we look at European climate policy and the objectives of the 'Fit for 55', we will see that this level of generalisation is still very high. It is also clear from the questions of the Riigikogu that we can say that we are reducing one and the other while not hurting people during this process. But what is it supposed to look like practically, pragmatically right here in Estonia? This is a much more complex issue and will certainly require a great deal of additional work and analysis to take the right steps. The main message of my report is as follows. First of all, ground-breaking technological innovation allows for new solutions to the problems. Breaking innovation, diffractive innovation in English, means innovation that, not just by taking small steps, will not make our lives better and will not bring us new business opportunities or environmental solutions, but will bring about fundamental changes in our life and work processes. Technology allows us to change basically how we do things. The area I am involved with is a concrete example of what I am telling you today. It is a transition to unmanned autonomous vehicles and machine tools that can support the achievement of climate objectives while at the same time making processes more cost-effective. Perhaps what we are talking about is that when robots come to the aid, it is possible to redesign our work processes in such a way that all parties, including those interested in nature conservation and those fighting for biodiversity, will in principle win, and the economic benefits will certainly not be reduced, but may increase. This area is very important for Estonia. It makes no sense for us to talk about things that, yes, are great, we keep reducing, we limit, but somebody in China, India or America is taking advantage of it. For example, if we were to be importers of food after all and simply take our climate impact out of Europe somewhere in Africa, China or America, this is certainly not meaningful. I am sure that the European objectives have also been mindful of this issue, and this has certainly not been a planned impact or an unplanned impact, I hope. In our view, Estonia, it is very important that we have seen where the strength of Estonian entrepreneurship is, where the strength of Estonian science is and where the needs of the Estonian public sector are. This is a triple helix, which has been much talked about in the context of innovation. If, now, in this very fight against climate change, we could bring together these three strengths and we had enough players who could contribute and, on the other hand, benefit, our country would be on the winning side, as well as the Earth and the climate. First of all, I will briefly introduce AS Milrem. I think that most of the members of the Riigikogu have not been in contact with companies such as Milrem, who, in cooperation with other companies, the University of Tartu, the Estonian University of Life Sciences and the Tallinn University of Technology and state institutions such as the Defence Forces, the Defence League, and the Rescue Board, RMK and others have been developing systems based on unmanned autonomous vehicles for seven years now for complex environments. Once again, Milrem's machines tend to look more like mobile machines such as tractors, because the goal is to drive where others are not well placed in swamps, bogs, clear cutting, peat fields and other areas, such as thick snow. This is a sector that is not very well covered in the world. Very large investments have been made in the [development] roads and urban environment of self-driving cars. Milrem doesn't want to compete with Tesla and the other big ones. But movement in a complex environment is very much unsolved, because it is scientifically very difficult, and we have seen our own opportunity here. Today, Milrem is also well-known and recognised in the world, and it is clear that I here today at the NATO-Industry Forum am one of the panel representatives alongside companies such as Google, Microsoft and General Atomics. Estonia Milrem will show NATO how the future of the defence industry should develop. Whoever wants to know more about Milrem is the easiest way to watch the Milrem Robotics YouTube channel. There are different applications and experiments that are nicely represented with small video clips. Now, just in case, I stress that I am the research and development director of Milrem, but I am also a professor at the University of Tartu, and my aim in this presentation today is not to make Milrem advertising for you. I am in Milrem because I believe that the business direction that Milrem is doing is good for Estonia as a whole is good for the whole world. I see here the enormous potential that we have already actively implemented in cooperation with research institutions in order to implement the objectives of Estonia, where we can solve real-life problems through innovation. Now the examples that are important in this sector. The first issue: how can we combat climate change with these unmanned autonomous systems? Energy efficiency first. Unmanned vehicles can be built more energy-efficiently than manned vehicles. The validation of this claim is relatively simple. If technology allows either remotely or autonomously to drive a vehicle, then obviously there is no need to carry a cab, it is not necessary to carry life support systems, such as airbags, all the structural solutions that are necessary for a human driver to be comfortable and secure. This whole part can amount to 30-50% of the total vehicle weight when we are talking about a tractor, a truck and so on. We don't have to carry that mass anymore. Cleveron, an Estonian company, is a good example. He's coming out next year with his delivery robot, a truck that's a remote-controlled car that drives on the road, unlike Starship, and delivers the packages remotely. The economic effect is that the machine is lighter, less energy is spent, and contributes to climate objectives. The technologies enabling this are communication infrastructure, 4G, 5G and management assistance systems developed in cooperation with universities. Another issue that helps to meet environmental objectives is that of partially autonomous work machines. Take, for example, these big machines, tractors. The reason why the tractor is so ugly is not because it is physically and agriculturally the most effective. The big tractor has many negative sides. The main reason for size is that one person whose payroll accounts for a large proportion of the total cost can do as much work as possible with one machine. If tractors and other types of machinery were autonomous driving, one connection between the number of people and the number of machines would disappear, and we might be able to get a much better solution if we used smaller robot vehicles to do these jobs. We can actually maximize man's productivity through man's autonomy through leadership systems, man's leadership of an entire 'fleet' in the fields and in the forest. The third argument is that a new generation - the first generation - is currently developing into fields and forests and other such areas. This is just the time to keep our climate goals in mind. Although Milrem's current solution is a diesel-electric hybrid, we are ready for a full electric solution. We are also very interested that the hydrogen infrastructure in Estonia will develop to a level so that we can do these forest and agricultural work on the basis of hydrogen. Hydrogen will certainly be one of those potential energy providers in situations where batteries may be scarce. For example, we need a robot to do 8 to 16 hours of hard work on a field just a robot the size of a passenger car, but there is not yet a battery solution that would allow sufficient electricity to be brought along for this work. There are two options: either a half-day charge, which is not very reasonable, or a switch to fuel cell and hydrogen-based energy storage. I think that Estonia has already analysed it at national level and there is certainly a way forward here. All these assumptions together give Milrem a single field of activity, it's robotics in reforestation. Although Milrem is primarily known as a defence company, we have been studying the automation of forest renewal in cooperation with RMK, private companies and research institutions for years. Today, the forest is largely left to grow itself, clear cutting is done and the forest is allowed to grow itself. It's like that all over the world. The most progressive countries in which the forest is artificially renewed are the Nordic countries, either manual or mechanised planting work and then cutting between them. Why is this important in relation to climate objectives? This is because if the forest is the main carbon sink, as the previous waitresses pointed out here, the more this forest will be used as worthy building material or furniture or in other such places, the longer this wood will bind carbon. So if we plant a forest that can be used to make more worthy products, then we bond carbon for a long time. Robotic systems allow trees to be planted and cultivated in such a way that we can get more logs and less bush in the long run. This is certainly a very useful way of meeting these 'Objective 55' objectives, both in economic and climate terms. One of the challenges in this world is legislation and I am pleased to see that [on this subject] discussions are under way right now. Companies such as Cleveron, CAFA Tech, Milrem and Elmo Rent are discussing, together with the Transport Board and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, what changes need to be made to the Traffic Act, so that when producing a small series of mobile machinery or category M, a category of passenger cars, the remote-controlled machinery can be directed to Estonian roads and the economy in such a way that it is lawful. It is also very important to note that the Estonian market is not a [sufficient] market for this type of company. There is certainly a need for an export perspective here. We do these things so that these products can be applied worldwide. It's very important here to be a local reference. Local reference means that our roboticforester systems are used in the Estonian forest, that the Estonian Defence Forces use our defence systems, that the Estonian Border Guard uses our automated surveillance systems to guard the border, etc. This is now the place where the implementation of groundbreaking innovation requires courage, because by definition it is a novel situation and it involves greater risks. I think that Estonian ministries and institutions managed by ministries, such as the Defence Forces, the Police and Border Guard Board and RMK, should be pilots of innovation, testers, spokespersons, who will give Estonian companies the opportunity to demonstrate the capability of their systems and thereby bring these climate-friendly solutions to the export market. And as a final point, eight seconds remain, I stress that cooperation between companies, research institutions and the public sector is very important. Here, the state can help with its systemic programmes. A very good example is the smart specialisation support measure, which stimulated the interest of companies to start working with universities very effectively. It is certainly very easy to go a slippery path and provide support measures for businesses that are easier to reach, but they do not stimulate processes that are important to the state, such as cooperation between science and companies. Thank you for your attention and I apologise in 33 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U56	We can certainly continue to address these issues also through questions, but before we go to the questions, Mr Ernitsa has come up with a procedural question. Mr. Ernits, what's up?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U57	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. A procedural question. I just got a call from a person who's watching this transfer, and he said that it's purely procedural, that there's been no talk about it at all, there's only a few first words about this subject. He began to look at this [transfer] and asked why you did not put the whole subject of this debate to the full [video], there are only a few first words. If a person doesn't know enough right from the start, when he comes across Professor Noorma, he doesn't understand what and why. It's something you can tell our people who are working on the transfer.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U58	Yeah, that could have been asked as a question of substance and asked the professor to clarify. But we're going to the questions now. Urve Tiidus begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor Noorma! In your presentation, you focused on the victory of artificial intelligence, which we all see and perceive in this world, and we understand that it has a great future. Quite imaginary was your example of energy savings in the transition to artificial intelligence. You brought an example into the tractor cabin that no man was needed in it. But you were actually talking about changing the relationship between man and machine. And you're actually talking about the fact that we need people with a different kind of education, a different kind of preparation. You are a professor at the University of Tartu. How do you see the situation in Estonia now? Do we have enough young people who grow up, can deal with this area, want to deal with it and are competitive?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U60	Thank you. This is a very, very relevant problem statement and the answer is absolutely yes. We need a future competence in artificial intelligence and IT in many more workplaces and areas. The same is true in the defence sector, for example, and the same question here on the NATO-Industry Forum is always being discussed about what we should do. I am very pleased that Estonia is still at the forefront of its IT developments in the world, and the awareness of Estonian specialists on these IT issues is definitely greater than in the rest of the world. This gives Estonia the opportunity to do great things in this area. IT education must certainly continue to be supported, both directly as training for IT professionals and as part of the education of specialists in other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U61	Mr. Ligi, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U62	No, this [button] goes in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U63	I mean, he's not gonna go. You had a finger or something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U64	Yes, it will. I didn't. The iPad pressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U65	Nothing's gonna happen to us here. So, in short, Heiki Hepner asks.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Professor! My question comes from a slightly different area, but it is certainly linked to your report. Innovation in the broadest sense, including the green turn, requires very large quantities of various minerals, metals, which we are currently receiving in relatively limited quantities. What problem do you see in their limited availability for innovation and perhaps in the wider green turn? That's one half of the question. The other part of the question is that if we start to mine on the basis of current knowledge in order to carry out the greening quickly, how much danger you see in it for our natural diversity, our living environment, our nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U67	[[Remote connection]] Thank you for that good question. This is certainly a subject that is not an answerable quickly, but requires a long and thorough discussion, which is also active in society. I will give two examples in this area. The first place we need mineral resources, rare metals, is battery technology, and we know that here we are heavily dependent on, for example, Chinese mines. It's not very nice that we're here using a clean battery, but somewhere in China, there's a huge contamination of lithium production. Putting aside an alternative energy storage facility, hydrogen and fuel cells, this could significantly reduce the need for these metals, and so we could solve this problem specifically. That is why I am very much talking about hydrogen-based energy storage, the analysis of which Estonia could seriously continue and look at the opportunities that Estonia has in this area. The second issue is big versus small. We plant the forest in a mechanized way. How do we do that? We put a head of planting on a 15-ton excavator instead of a bucket, and we plant 50 grams of vegetation with it, 15 tons of trees planting 50 grams of wood. Think of how much metal and energy it takes to move this colossus! If we were to replace it with small machines, such as a one-ton multiscope system, then think about how much we would actually save the metal we're using right now. There are different views. However, I think that robot systems can also allow the use of resources such as mineral resources to be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U68	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this exciting insight into the world of innovation. If you go to such a high level, you can say that climate change is also justified or caused by innovation. But do we see here that we're going to the next level and we're going to accept the mistakes we've made? But the "Fit for 55" package also comes with an ambitious plan to plant a lot of trees. Is there a future for your machines in this pan-European project?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U70	Absolutely! Milrem is approached every week by very large forest owners, such as Weyerhaeuser from the United States, who manage forests in North America on an area twice as large as the total area of Estonia. The family of the King of Saudi Arabia has an ambitious goal: to plant perhaps five billion plants in the North African region. All of them have declared great goals, but they do not have the workforce to carry them out. Then they come and ask, as Milrem is in the picture, whether it can be done in cooperation with us. As this innovation is in the development phase, there are a lot of cooperation negotiations going on a daily basis and we are trying to offer solutions to our customers worldwide. That is why I am saying that, as development is very, very fast at the moment, the potential is huge at the moment, the climate objective, for example, of these robots, should be kept in mind at all times. I'm just thinking about alternative sources of energy here. But the beginning of the question was, do we make any mistakes now? Of course, as the previous waitress said very clearly, we are actually solving the problems caused by our dozen previous generations, from the industrial revolution. The industrial revolution was based on innovation, but our challenge, the problem scene has changed. The problem that we have to solve is, in many ways, to neutralise the misdeeds of previous generations so that our future generations can still live in a clean world. It needs another innovation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U71	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U72	Thank you, good waitress. Since your specialty seems to be technoptimism, I'll ask the municipality. What does your analysis say about the hope that existing internal combustion engines will receive some third-generation biofuel that will allow them to survive their lives without burdening the environment [to be used]? And secondly, what risks do you see in the lack of mineral resources, non-ferrous metals in connection with artificial intelligence and all of its electronics?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U73	[[Remote connection]] Thank you. I would say that I may not be a technooptimist, but I am a technopragmatist. I see that robots are a fundamental technology that helps to solve [problems], helps to improve people's lives on earth, and why not, along with humans, improve the lives of various insects and other natural diversity, the parties involved in biodiversity. But now, once again, the same matter of minerals and metals. The main thing is that the machine still requires metal and the machine still requires chips and the machine still requires energy, whether it's a robot or a person in it. But one of the main points of my report, the basis of the business model, is that we can make robots, which is "fit for purpose," now paraphrasing this goal of "Fit for 55," or robots we can customize better. This means that we are making more optimal use of resources, including mineral resources. Since the mineral theme came in, I'm doing a very quick diversion: there are also companies that develop mining robots. At the moment, we need to dig a tunnel in underground mines so that people can operate vehicles, which means that the tunnel height is at least two metres or a little bit below it. But if, for example, the thickness of a useful ore layer underground is 60 centimeters for certain ores, for example, in certain places, then if we send a 60 centimeter robot underground, we can perform excavation operations with a reduced energy consumption and a significantly lower environmental impact, because we have to carry much less soil out of the ground. But this is not the subject of today's debate. In the case of oil shale, such automation is possible, but with different solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U74	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U75	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress! Of course, it's a pleasure to listen to optimism. But we come back to this climate-neutral Estonia and its responsibilities and robots, which initially crawl around here in Tallinn, waiting for their moment at the crossings. Now, when you say that they are going to go into the forest and into the field, as I understand it, not into the mine, how will it actually reduce our greenhouse gas emissions on the territory of Estonia? The country's working hands are getting smaller and smaller. Philosophically speaking, there are a lot of people around the world, but the more these jobs are being robotized, the more people have to do something. We don't have a royal family who wants to work here. We take Ukraine, we bring these planters.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U76	Thank you. I realized that there were actually two questions on this issue and one argument or a nice compliment that optimism is always nice to listen to. In any case, I very much hope that I will hear only optimistic speeches from the honourable members of the Riigikogu, because otherwise we will lead Estonia into this beautiful positive future if we give up in advance. So let's keep optimism. The other part of the question: how does it affect people? That's the right question. That's the right question. We must definitely consider how roboting helps to improve the lives of the people of Estonia. This is what we have thoroughly analysed. We have no concern today in the forest sector that there is no job for the people, that everyone is standing by the forest and that they are eager to go planting or that they are eager to go trimmering for lighting. It's not like that, it's absolutely the opposite. We can't do a lot of reforestation, for example, because we're not just a labour force. We have some Ukrainian friends here to help us with this reforestation. Tree planting is still such a fine Sunday activity, which many volunteer to do. But brush cutting is kind of the kind of thing where there's gotta be a certain mentality, a certain physical ability to go in the middle of that bush with that trimmer, a gas-smelling trimmer. There's no manpower. So, for example, in this context, we are helping to solve the problem of labour shortages. But in a wider, larger picture, robots, above all, allow things to be done that are too boring for a person or too dangerous for a person. And neither in the visible future will there be such full-autonomous systems for more complex works; even in forest renewal, man's control of the vehicle will certainly remain significant. According to our current estimate, this will be about 20% of working time in the future. To this extent, a person remotely controls the robot's working process at the cutting bay, and about 80% of the time the robot can handle itself. Now think about who the person can run a robot park like this. It may be in a wheelchair, a middle-aged, older person, maybe a student, maybe a person who couldn't do physical work at this level and now has a new chance, he has "accessibility," and, regardless of race, gender and physical ability, he can operate these robots. So there will be new jobs that are not location-specific and where it will be possible to involve people much better. I think that in the long term, as we have a labour problem rather than unemployment, the arrival of robots is a positive trend, and as productivity increases, people's incomes will also increase in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U77	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U78	[[It's a remote link.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your presentation. Since you've been giving yourself up as a pragmatist, I also have a pragmatic question. Innovative futures must also be combined with the keywords "industrial independence" and "industrial security." Today, Europe's automotive industry, the electronics industry and all the other accompanying industries are in a major chip crisis. The chips are mostly coming from China. Should many industries, including the chip industry, move back to Europe in order for our innovative future to be guaranteed by independent and industrial security? And if this industry moves back to Europe, how does it relate to a green turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U79	Thank you. The answer to the first half of the question is very simple: yes, absolutely! The dependence on China is currently one of the biggest ropes on Europe and America's necks, and we cannot go on like this. There is certainly a need to bring back the manufacturing industry. If we bring this industry back, of course we must do so not on the basis of cheap labour, but on the basis of automation. Since the development of artificial intelligence and automation has been particularly rapid in recent decades, I think that this is quite a good time to start restoring this production in Europe so that we also try to optimally monitor environmental requirements. Are there any very good solutions here? Maybe not in some places, but then you just have to choose a less bad solution than a few bad ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U80	Mr Ernits, the message to you is that on this item, every member of the Riigikogu has one question. Professor Noorma, members of the Riigikogu have run out of questions at the moment. Good luck, strength and strength there in Rome, and thank you very much for this presentation. Now, let us move on to the presentation by Siim Kallas, Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs. It's 15 minutes the same way, and then 20 minutes for questions and answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U81	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, co-rapporteurs, guests! The Committee on European Union Affairs has taken green issues to heart. This is confirmed by today's debate. Moreover, parliamentary hearings on the Green Paper took place in the Committee on European Union Affairs in September and October to allow access to the overall framework of the 'Objective 55' package and to the sectoral problems ahead of the forthcoming discussion of the government's positions. Interested members of the Committee on the Environment, Economics and Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu also participated. The topics covered included biodiversity and energy, agriculture and forestry, emissions trade and regional development. The "Objective 55" package is a very big deal. It is a set of large and complex initiatives, initially mainly drafts and plans, which must become laws. Climate warming at one, two or three degrees may seem extremely abstract, but let me illustrate the situation we are in today: extreme heat, floods, droughts, water scarcity, rising sea levels, melting glaciers, forest fires, windbreaks and agricultural damage are already a reality. These effects will be felt most by all of us. There are many among us whose children or grandchildren were born in this century. In view of life forecasts, it is they who may still be alive in 2100. In the light of Tendents, I wonder what the world is in which my grandchildren have to do their daily chores. Let me give you some examples. 25 years ago, I put skis down at my door and went skiing in the woods. At the moment, we have occasional skiing opportunities in winter. Despite the hot summers of recent years, my husband and I agreed that an Estonian would suffer a few hot days without air conditioning. This summer we gave up and bought air conditioning, knowing very well that it would take much more energy than heating. The heat's obviously come to stay. We need to water the plants, because the lack of water is also haunted. In the last two years, our garden has been attacked by giant slugs from the south and settled here, who have to be collected and destroyed every day. They've come to stay. What is the planned result of the green turn on the island of Mauritius and in my home garden? What will result in 2050 and 2100? What are the results and consequences of today and tomorrow? Indeed, we are talking today about plans for ten and a few more years. But when I think of my grandchildren, I ask myself, " What is the 80th anniversary plan? ' Good listeners! Now we have to decide how to deliver to achieve climate neutrality, and how to ensure that our farmers and foresters are not caught between the gears. How can we reduce fossil fuel-based energy and increase the share of renewable energy production in a way that does not put our energy supply and security at risk and does not increase the price of electricity? How to successfully restructure the economy of Ida-Virumaa? How can transport be organised to reduce emissions but not disrupt supply chains? How can we optimise consumption without damaging our standard of living? The solution is a new, modern economic model that Europe is trying to create. Estonia has actually done quite well. We have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 72% compared to 1990, and with this figure we are one of the best in Europe. Since climate neutrality is already supported by the composition of two governments, we can conclude from this that we are achieving a similar cross-party consensus in environmental policy, as we have been holding Estonia's foreign policy for the last 30 years. But is our doing well enough? Inevitably, we must participate in global climate policy. I can't imagine that we can only do something with our forces to prevent the melting of the polar ice and the resulting rise in sea levels. It has been said that Estonia and the European Union cannot influence the global climate if China, India, the United States and others do not contribute with similar measures. The countries mentioned above have now also been taken on board and have taken drastic steps. These are not only steps to reduce carbon emissions, but also the introduction of new technologies, be it investment in renewable energy or infrastructure or capture of carbon. In the case of India, it is impressive that by 2030 there is a plan to increase the share of renewable energy to 50%, mainly based on solar energy. China has said that investment in coal mines is being abandoned and that investment in renewable energy solutions is already being stepped up. These are opportunities in which European business and consumers can remain spectators if we do not step or run even faster. In other words, quoting the thought of Lewis Carroll, author of Alice Wonderland: to stay still, you have to run with all your might. Green turn must be a turnaround for citizens, a turnaround for people, not a turnaround for governments or the European Commission. Aggressive and very vocal interest groups, whether those who deny climate change or extreme environmental associations who do not recognise any other views, do not recognise the majority and are even prepared for violence, are damaging to the implementation of the green turn. There must also be no green turnaround, nor must there be any interest groups' plan to secure additional profits through subsidies that are favourable to themselves. What does all this mean? This means that this turn is not driven by any new plan committee's orders and prohibitions, but by society and the economy in such a way that self-regulation achieves the objectives of a green turn. This will ensure not only that the climate disaster is avoided, but also that in 80 years' time people will live better and that both economic and social and environmental well-being will increase. Economically, the implementation of the green turn requires three pillars: investment, fair pricing for normal functioning and social policy to adapt to change and overcome the consequences of possible crises. We currently have significant financial resources for investments. The European Union's recovery plan is a huge amount of money. Our risk is to waste it, to use it in vain. The rain of European money gives us the illusion that it can last forever. Do you really think it's been 80 years? We need to change our thinking, our financial needs need to be covered by our own resources in the near future or in the long term, we need to pay as many benefits as possible and we need to collect enough taxes to balance. Detailed and substantial competition rules have been developed to ensure the fair functioning of the European internal market. State aid rules are an important part of competition rules. State aid is authorised for structural restructuring and strategic investments, not for maintenance costs. With regard to the green turnaround plan, the possibilities for using State aid have been significantly increased. Our risk is that we are keenly seeing the needs of this afternoon, but not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. We have experience of wasting and misusing state aid. Let's try to remember that and avoid mistakes. In time, one of the main guiding principles of Estonian finances was to create the most favourable environment for entrepreneurship in order to grow our economic well-being as quickly as possible, which would not be left behind by European countries. To this end, it was necessary to invest in an increase in production capacity. Today, we need to look at public finances in order to ask how our current system responds to the new challenges: the green turn and the related needs of the technological social revolution. Local authorities need to be involved in future investments. A large wind farm or other future investment seems to be something strange and cumbersome to which local residents, by the way voters, are looking with suspicion and distrust. Without the involvement of the municipality, we will continue to fight the famous non-backyard phenomenon, also known as NIMBY in English. Recently, a large number of citizens were involved in expanding the capital of Enefit Green, a company primarily devoted to renewable energy. This is a very positive event. People look to the future, where renewable energy production is one of the key issues. Municipalities and communities need to be involved in future projects as shareholders. Municipalities or organised communities could receive at least a quarter of the participation in new projects. This, of course, requires agreement on the financial side: what is the investor's contribution, what is the contribution of the municipality and the state, what are the responsibilities and responsibilities of all parties involved. This should lead to a mechanism for sharing fair returns and costs, benefits and burdens. Involvement of municipalities is also an important part of the social policy needed for the green turn. It is the municipalities that are most directly exposed to the difficulties of people and their concerns, in this case also the problems caused by the green turn. It is true that social policies are needed to achieve climate neutrality, making changes in consumption and production acceptable. This requires a reasonable support system, but it must be aimed at the person, not at the product or service. Of course, solving social problems cannot be left to municipalities alone. National education policies play an important role in shaping the attitudes and behaviour models of the young generation. A green turn requires the education of all of us, our understanding of natural phenomena and processes. Natural resources need to be saved. There is a need to save water, forest, mineral resources and energy. We need to make savings today and in 30 and 80 years' time. This cannot be done by means of command economy techniques, orders and prohibitions. An economic mechanism is needed for a long plan and its basic element is fair and correct pricing. All kinds of subsidies, artificially reduced prices, free products and services work against the green turn. Free public transport is a huge waste of resources. I welcome the decision on packaging taxation. This is undoubtedly a step towards the sustainable use of resources. As early as 1513 Niccolò Machiavelli wrote that the ruler must be goats. When a ruler gives gifts, he does good to few and hurt many. Renewable energy capacities are intended for electricity generation. After this investment has taken place, consumers will have to pay off this electricity. We want to save energy, so it is not logical for the state budget to encourage electricity consumption on account of other revenues and costs. Renewable energy subsidies of EUR 100 million per year must remain in the past. The subsidisation of prices of electricity and liquid fuels, the reduction of VAT and excise duties work against energy savings. It is a short-sighted and harmful policy. The difficulties of changing fuel and energy prices must be addressed through a system of national and local social benefits. It cannot be that the government's subsidised prices also benefit the wealthier people who do not need it at all. Subsidisation is inversely proportional to savings. There's also a change of technology. The world is developing technology. Whoever's at the forefront can sell their technology to others. Here we can learn from the best. The Danish state started to develop wind energy already in the 1970s after the energy crisis based on coal production. As a result, almost half of the world's wind turbines are now produced by Danish companies. They have a great competitive advantage, long-term experience and the best technologies for the construction of sea wind parks. In particular, the Danish company Ørsted comes to the aid of its knowledge and skills to build a large-scale Gulf wind farm. We also have to learn from the Danish collective wind turbine cooperative system. Very interesting was the previous presentation by Professor Noorma, which opened up the same subject in a slightly different way. It is in the interests of the European Union and Estonia to be the first in the field of green technologies. This is an opportunity for our businesses to create a market for green services and innovative business models. The objectives set out in the Green Contract are not only in the interest of the environment. It is also a sustainable and new economic model that will enable development to leap into the future and our chance to be passengers of this time machine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U82	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions too. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Thank you to ELAK for organising this excellent debate and, of course, to you for this excellent presentation. I agree with a lot. Thank you for bringing in the children and grandparents! My children may be grandparents just then, in 2,100. But their grandparents told me yesterday they weren't going to die until they could drive Rail Baltic. Is Rail Baltic coming and when? What's the score?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U84	Coming. When, I can't tell you that I can't tell you if I'm still alive at the time, but I'm sure I will. These are processes that cannot be reversed in any way. It is a European project, it is a law adopted in December 2013, and Europe is implementing its laws. It's also about the grass. Europe is a large and complex mechanism, but it is incredibly consistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U85	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U86	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The green turn has its own science-based, pragmatic side. But green turns also have such an exciting side. Unfortunately, in the context of this enthusiasm, there is a worrying lack of talk about energy security. Today are the keywords Nord Stream 1 and 2, the Ukrainian gas pipeline, Belarus. At times, it seems that at European level it is understood that the elephant is in the room, but precisely in the light of the excitement of this green turn, Russian gas is not encouraged or wanted to be spoken of as a weapon. Do you think there is a conflict between the green turn and energy security, and if there is, how can it be overcome?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U87	I would say that I do not see the conflict, but certainly these issues are so big that I, too, holding the presentation for 15 minutes, was far from fit for all the topics I would have liked to talk about. Similarly, when we talk about the 47 initiatives that make up a green turn for the European Union there is probably not the Nord Stream 2 issue. But I do not dare to say that Europe does not understand this issue very clearly. And as the questioner knows very well, there is also a collision of interests in this gas pipeline. It happens that the first way to say it was, the bang in January 2006, when Russia turned off the gas that had to go to Ukraine and then to Europe. Then the Commission also woke up, and I remember it very vividly, that there is a need for a serious plan. And this serious plan, by the way, was the best plan ever made on one page at the time, and it has not been repeated in this form. There were five points in this plan, one of which I do not remember, but at least the first point was the market, the energy market. This energy market, as you know, we are discussing here whether stock exchange prices are high or low, sometimes they are low, sometimes they are high, they are created. This energy market has been created. One thing was that Bulgaria, too, was left without gas due to some Russian moves, and then they looked at it as interesting, there is a pipe, but in it the gas only moves one way. Despite many respondents, this pipe system was modified so that it could be used double, both ways. So this [the subject] is dealt with, but it is colossal investments, colossal profits and losses. But for someone to underestimate it, I don't dare say. But I am not speaking here, of course, on behalf of the European Commission, but on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs. We are, of course, ready to discuss energy security issues at every moment, as are everyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U88	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U89	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your good speech. You, Siim, are such a big visionary and my favorite. But the entrepreneurs have said that hastily made greens are dangerous. You said in the meantime that the ruler must be stingy. Please fill in the background. For example, on the one hand, the payment of compensation to Ida-Virumaa in the event of a green turn. [On the other hand,] in the morning we met with the Rectors and they talked about a deficit of EUR 100 million, otherwise smart Estonia will disappear, but last night or night you voted against contributing 20 million euros to higher education operating support. You were one of the 56 hitchhikers who pressed the red button. How does this come together? Is there supposed to be goats everywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U90	It doesn't mean the ruler can't give gifts. Machiavelli did not rule this out either, but [he] said that the government should generally be very sustainable. And so it is now. Since I myself am partly a professor at the University of Tartu and receive about a third of the professor's salary, which is so microscopic that it is embarrassing to talk about it, the funding of higher education is, of course, a key issue. But that money doesn't just have to come from the state budget. This has been my position and that of many of my thinkers since 1995 when we formed the Reform Party. I'm always willing to discuss changing the systems. My message, which I have tried to present here today in one way or another, is that the system must be effective and effective, so that no one should depend on the gifts of the ruler, but on it to function on its own. However, this operation in itself is, unfortunately, an economic mechanism, and that is all. So enthusiasm for enthusiasm for the functioning of the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U91	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U92	Thank you. Indeed, it is a general rule that all subsidies and tax exemptions are made available to the more prosperous and not productive. On the other hand, in the context of the green turn, there is a great deal of talk about this pink step, about equality, about a fair transition, etc., which, in my opinion, tarnishes this process, gives the impression that not everyone should be contributing and that it should be compensated for by something. In fact, these choices are quite pragmatic, what is to be replaced? ..not justice issues. But what do you think? Is this a threat to the turn of the green, if it is accompanied by inappropriate dimensions, in my opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U93	Well, I guess that wish has been eternal, even with all the previous projects. Even deep in Soviet times, there was a fierce dispute over better schools, the loss of advantages. They said what a hell of a special program for the first high school and the others. However, it was not lost, it was the leaders who did not lose it. So there's always been some crazy equalizing press everywhere. But equalizing is unfair, it actually works exactly the opposite of what they want. That's basically what I can say about it. However, as regards the green turn and any compensation mechanisms, it must be said that there are voters, as we know very well, there are MEPs and there are governments. Unfortunately, compromises also need to be made. It is quite clear that in order to sell radical ideas and that society would accept the great robotisation that Professor Noorma was talking about, we need to come up with some kind of soothing mechanisms, right, because this, among other things, takes jobs away from a whole series of people. It's like, having a lifetime of executive power, you're inevitably standing in front of having to do your own looking backwards from time to time and compromise. I guess it's the same here. But I don't see that danger. I'd rather see the danger of this whole green turn thing going on if we don't come up with what it costs, who pays and how it costs, but we'll talk about what we should do, and then we'll split up and we'll be terrified that we've been discussing such an important thing as a weed. And Prime Minister X says yes, but what do I do now, right, where do I take this money and where do I get Parliament's consent? Parliament is looking again at where we can get our voters' consent. That's the way things stand. In some ways, dictatorships are easier; they do not have to worry about such problems. Unfortunately, however, dictatorships have also been able to do unthinkable damage to the environment. For example, the biggest environmental achievement of the Soviet Union was the drying-up of the Aral Sea. So on this point, I do not believe that democracy in any way is not suitable for solving these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U94	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U95	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable waitress! I will perhaps proceed a little with Mr Milling's question, and also with the [think] that you yourself abandoned, the ability of dictatorships to master the green turn. The green turn is, in fact, a global issue; it is not just a question of Estonia; it is not a question of the European Union; it is a matter of the whole world. How can we still achieve the situation that authoritarian states, Russia, China, maybe even be talking about Belarus, even though he is a third league player on this issue, would not use this green bow as a weapon in his own interest? And how can they not just fake data and say that we are horrible greens, even though they are not even a bit of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U96	I don't know how they're gonna use a hero ring as a weapon. I don't know how to answer that. Here, in the previous speeches, it was a question that I myself mentioned here in Estonia [we can do], if China, India and the United States [do nothing]. What I can say in my experience about China and the United States of America, I do not know about India, I have had business to do there with the various top players, is that they do not underestimate the dangers of climate change or its adverse effects on them. I don't underestimate it at all. But they basically don't accept any order that comes internationally. Unfortunately, this command, all that is being shaped, is very European. It's gonna get you upset. I may have no time here; the respondent can answer for a long time, just to give an example of his own practice. The emission trading system, or emission trading scheme, is actually a very good thing. But the call for a radical wing of the European Union was that all the world's aviation industry must participate in this emissions trading system. I was the one who was trying to sell that thing. In Estonia, I have sometimes been insane, but the way I got into a big meeting of ASEAN, where there were more than a thousand people, especially the Americans, said that you would lay down rules for us, go by these rules, where this and the other, we simply do not obey your European fiction in this emissions trade. But when it comes to, for example, the efficiency of aircraft engines and the reduction in fuel consumption, they're tough guys, aren't they? And that is what they all emphasised: they do not underestimate this thing at all, but they do not do what Europe tells them to do. It was then that we had to actually [renegotiate]. There is an organisation such as ICAO, International Civil Aviation Organization, United Nations Organisation, which has its headquarters in Montreal. We were able to talk about it separately for another 15 minutes, but I am not talking about some kind of gentle formulation at the General Assembly by consensus that we are moving in the direction of reducing CO2 emissions and other harmful emissions, and that is everyone's overall objective. That's the story. There was talk, indeed, that we could not influence them. But when I was in Beijing, China, with Europe's top delegation, the air pollution there was 400 times higher than healthy. 400 times! Everything was vicious. It's from coal mines, coal power plants around Beijing. It was [China] for the acute purpose of shutting them down. They're human. I have already stressed that the hero is a human heroe, and we have to look at it from this angle. I really think I have really great grandkids, and they might be alive in 2,100. I'll take a look at what's going on and how we're gonna do it. And they [in China] are thinking the same thing, aren't they, but agreeing with them in some specific programmes, including this emissions trading system, is, of course, extremely difficult or almost impossible. But the fact that they don't do anything isn't absolutely true.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U97	Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U98	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Very good speech! I'm just gonna take a piece out of this call. You mentioned free transportation, it's my favorite subject. I will give you an example of Harjumaa. Due to the financing of free transport, we have reached a stage where we should actually start closing the lines. On the one hand, free [transport] eats money, even though it should increase the number of line miles. Purely in Harju County, about six million euros are actually missing to make people use public transport. There is such a contradiction between the package and what we are doing now. We're scaring people out of public transport into cars. How would you solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U99	Yeah, well, I guess we have different opinions on this, and there's a strong political background behind it. I mean, when this thing was launched in Tallinn, then the mayor of Tallinn, Edgar Savisaar, invited me to a conference and I brought the same arguments. If I look at this as the former leader of the practical executive, I look at it this way: if you offer free transportation, what happens? In short, then you pay the salaries of bus drivers, new buses and everything else with taxpayers' money. The taxpayer's money is decided by the council. The Council will look at where to cut and where not to spend when discussing each budget. And you're slowly starting to get the mechanism that free transportation is going to suffer. In Soviet times, express lines were used, which were much more expensive, and people used them with great pleasure. But then there will be such a mechanism, a spontaneous mechanism that works against public transport as an undoubtedly necessary thing. Basically, you don't have any mechanisms to say that this thing works on the Pirita road, and there's been a significant reduction in road traffic. No, I haven't! No way! If transport is subject to a charge, it basically works in itself to drive as much as necessary and where it is needed. Basically, I am sure that resource saving cannot benefit in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U100	Good waitress! Thank you very much for your presentation. Thank you very much for the questions. Thank you. The Committee on European Union Affairs has now provided for the possibility of opening negotiations. Anybody want to open negotiations? He does. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair in the Riigikogu, Yoko Alender. I understand that Yoko Alender is a representative of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you once again to ELAK for holding an excellent debate and also to the speakers. Most of the time, when we have talked about climate issues in this Chamber, the conversation has been very meaningful and quite unanimous, and I am very pleased about that. Some reactions. I remember when I was a kid. I grew up at the end of Soviet Estonia, and it seemed to me that our values were then freedom and education. We were a cultural people, and I don't think we asked if the bar was too high when we wanted freedom. Similarly, I think today we can no longer ask if the bar is too high if we, as a free country, as a wise, smart, courageous and sustainable state, are making our contribution so that our grandchildren can also deliver the Earth on the planet. Indeed, the climate-neutral economic model does not have a credible alternative. I would say in the words of the recent COP, the African Climate Ambassador who attended the climate conference, and also the UN Youth Climate Ambassador Vanessa Naka, that God help us if you cannot prove that we are lost. I think all the presentations today pointed out that changes have actually taken place significantly faster than we have thought and that even the most optimistic of us have seen this situation. I think that those who wish and say that the Estonian state must look to the end of what these are our opportunities to put the herb to work for us are right. Let me say a few words about injustice. In my opinion, today's presentations made it very clear that it is not the green turns that increase inequality at the most, but that inequality is increased most by delaying the green turns. Similarly, the reason for the high price of electricity is that we have not been able to guarantee the capacity of [sufficient] renewable energy and, of course, those with fewer resources will suffer. I very much agree that tax policy, subsidising must be a brake on climate change and reducing inequalities. I also think that this'social risk' is one of the biggest, most difficult problems in implementing the green turn. But it is a pleasure to note that, just as Greta Thunberg, the second youth representative in this discussion, said that the time for words was over, it was time for action, repeated the exact same thing here today Siim Kallas. Now I am talking about our opportunities in Estonia. Around 900 gigatons of emissions would be expected from the construction sector on the planet Earth in a growing population. If we want to stay at 1.5 degrees, we are allowed about 500 gigatons in total for all sectors. So the construction sector takes about 50% of all natural resources. Everything comes from nature. Where does the loss of biodiversity come from? 90% of the exploitation of natural resources in the same way. What's our chance? How can we even look at ourselves and say that we're building something other than wood in the public sector? The Nordic countries have set clear targets, with carbon footprints being measured in their buildings. By 2025, Finland already aims at 45% of public buildings being built from wood. What are our goals? It is a pleasure to note that the private sector in Estonia continues to be innovative, moving boldly, the initiative of the green tiger brings together companies that are moving ahead. By the way, this is also the source of inequality. Those who don't go down that road will just fade away. Nor do I agree with the argument that greening, including automation, would take jobs away. In fact, the problem in our area is that there is no hand at work and no one wants to do these simple jobs. On the contrary, it is quite an opportunity to improve well-being. I very much agree with the SEI representative: not either, but what is the question? For this we have a steering committee for the green turn, and there are experts there, for example, there is the same representation of the green tiger, or entrepreneurs. I think it is crucial to give clear signals very quickly now, how we are going to move, what are the things we are putting emphasis on in Estonia, what are we going to pick out, what are we going to develop...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U102	Good waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U103	Yeah, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U104	Please, two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U105	... that we walk one step if we defend our positions when we specify our positions in Europe when negotiating the climate package, so that we take into account our own green turn road map. I think that, in fact, Estonia is already mature enough for this. I very much agree that the entry of Enefit Green into the stock market, which involved so many people who all benefit from the opportunities offered by this new economic model, was very good not only in terms of content but also in terms of communication. There were also some questions about whether we can take responsibility, whether we can raise our public transport in local authorities to such a level that it becomes a credible alternative to family resources, not to mention climate resources, a wasteful private car, an alternative that is convenient and demand-based, perhaps if necessary, where it is needed. I continue to believe that such a vehicle of 1 to 4 people should actually be part of public transport. I think this is one of the major trends: all transport as public transport; not so much ownership as exploitation; also more stationary life. The very construction sector that I was talking about also has a huge role to play here: how to build smarter, softer and so that we raise the quality of life at the same time. I think that the values on which Estonia should be built now that we are free and educated now could be first and foremost smart, sustainable and close to nature. Thank you. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U106	Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U107	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Once upon a time, the Soviet era was still there, I had my own heading "Only one world" in the Voice of Youth. Maybe some will. I talked about things every week back then, the environment, the climate, everything that awaits us. Now, if I'm listening to the hollow and beautiful words of the green turn, I feel rather appalling. These are slogans, day politics, somewhere in Brussels von der Leyen and his office have decided what will be. Everything is beautiful, but as a naturalist, I know, and you know, there is not only one continent in the world. I've been following the events of Glasgow recently. Unlike Yoko, I wasn't there, but I looked at it. You can't talk about everything here. If you look at the behaviour of India and China, yes, they'll take it a little lower, but the coal stations will rise. But we are here whipping ourselves and talking about how miners have to become nail technicians or someone else and that the money for a fair transition is enough. I've been to Ida-Virumaa and I've been talking a lot lately. This is a joke, the number that has been described in Brussels as the amount of a fair transition. They're laughing it out. But that's it. What does that really mean? That nature needs to be preserved and that it is good to breathe clean air and that children and grandchildren live in a more beautiful or at least similar world, all of which are slogans. Who's to say that? On this point, I agree with Mr Kallas and thank Mr Kallas for bringing another such debate to the big hall. But what does that really mean? I very much agree with Ahti Asmann of the Viru Chemistry Group that this hastily-running grass is a dangerous thing. It's a very dangerous thing. Well, I agree that we are moving our energy production from the eastern border to the western border, and then Sõrve and the rest of Saaremaa are discussing where the giants that are sown into the sea will be and whether they can make selfies at sunset. But we still don't have the technology to store that electricity when windmills start producing it at some point. Also, rejecting a proposal for farm charges by Minister of Justice Lauri means that the windmill is too close to your [residence] on land or at sea, slowing down the whole pace. The Estonian people have the saying that it is not worth spitting in the old well if the new one is not ready. But actually, we've done it. We are talking about everything that comes, the green turn and the windmills that are sown in the Gulf of Livonia, but we really don't have one or the other, but the well has already been properly spat. Switzerland made a referendum, as it often does, quite recently, and said that their contribution to global warming was very small, I think 0.1%, and the government's green agenda was failed. Our contribution is four times smaller than that of Switzerland, but we're going beyond that. In fact, no one here has a mandate, either on the left or on the right or in the middle, not on any political party, we as legislators. This mandate should still be obtained, and only then can we talk. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I am, of course, always in and discussing these issues. But I see it's those slogans again, it's all such beautiful scaring and slogans. But let's see today. Let's get started. When Lady von der Leyen came with her committee, there was a forecast that by 2030 the price of carbon dioxide would rise to EUR 52... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, bell, can I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U108	Yeah, three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U109	Yeah, 52 euros. It was a ten-year plan. It used to be five years old. But in six months, it was done, and it reached 60 euros. And what is it now? It's a record again, 67 euros. Consequently, all these calculations by the European Commission's current leader and his team have blown up. We have also discussed in the Committee on the Environment that the whole system should, in fact, be reviewed with business. As I understand it, it is already being dealt with in Brussels and elsewhere. I can't tell you how far that is now. Those green skates that have come out of us, we're on our hands right now. Above all, as legislators, we must think of our people, just as Switzerland has done, just as Poland, like the United States, all countries, normal countries. [We must think] above all about our people, not about slogans. Our contribution to this global so-called poison, speaking of greenhouse gases, is 0.025%. Switzerland has 0.1%, they sent it to a dumpster in the whole government, but we're happy here and we're gonna talk about what we have to do. Today's score is 67 euros for a ton. We have risen by one fifth in the last month and by two and a half times in the last year. And it is not possible to build a wall between Europe, Africa and Asia. For migrants, maybe somewhere we're building a five-meter or ten-metre wall, but it's no use with greenhouse gases. We can't build this wall until the moon, and even then it won't do any good. So you really should think soberly, especially we here, the legislators, and above all, you should think about how to make this green. I repeat: of course we have to think much more about the environment than we actually think about here, but at the same time we also have to think about the people, Estonians and Estonians, who live here, and perhaps, above all, we have to think about the beautiful green slogans, which, unfortunately, are rather hollow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U110	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa Party, Heiki Hepner. Please! Excuse me, Mr Hepner, I apologize for a moment. I have a vote to make. I'm sorry. Thank you. As the lead committee has asked for this sitting to be extended, I think we need to start preparing this vote. Can we go to the vote? Anybody mind? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on European Union Affairs to extend the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U111	With the result of 25 votes against, 2 abstentions, the sitting has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa Party, Heiki Hepner. And once again, I apologize for this [the delay]! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U112	Thank you, good Chairman. Thank you very much to the waitresses. Some thoughts and opinions also on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Climate change is an objective fact and obviously, I hope, no one in this Chamber denies it. It seems to me that the debate is more about how to deal with this objective fact and what to do. Our aim should not be to bring CO2 emissions and, with it, damage to the natural environment outside the European Union, and then to be satisfied that everything is fine here. One main postulate on this whole issue has certainly been that Estonia and the people must survive through the ages. The [Green Turn] must serve the country and people of Estonia. Looking at this grassroots, these climate change, we can highlight three levels: global, European and national, or Estonian. All these levels should be dealt with very carefully separately. Today in this Chamber, we have basically put them together, although sometimes these lines can be difficult to draw. Let's start with the global problems, and I'll give you a few keywords in this area. Indeed, the challenge is how to deal with authoritarian countries. We can agree with Mr Kallas, who has a lot of experience in the international field. Russia, China, could say that India cannot be committed to them, but he is certainly a great player, the United States is a democratic state, but certainly a very big donor of goods, how do they get into this boat, and how do they finally control them? In the case of India and the United States, I do not think that this issue is so acutely raised. But how do we get reliable data from China, Russia and, in my opinion, Iran, for example, so that they do not oppose or abuse the grass for their own benefit? There's nothing to pay them for human life. The air may be very thick in Beijing, but it doesn't matter to their rulers. We actually have a point here. The second issue, which has not been discussed very much, but which could also be considered globally, is that the population has grown very sharply. The population has grown much steeper than the price of CO2 tonnes when we look at this trend line. In fact, the more mouths that want to eat, consume and consume well, the greater the challenge this green turn is. This question cannot, in fact, be ignored. Now, let's get a little closer to our home rind, Europe. Europe has said that three billion trees are recommended for binding. This is a grateful undertaking in itself, especially when seen from Estonia. Estonia is a forest country. But I would dare say that it's actually... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U113	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U114	... a relatively unambitious task, if it is credible. As a forest, this would amount to around 0.5% of the EU's surface area. It could be at least two or three times bigger if it were a serious ambition. Deforestation is an issue of its own and should be dealt with separately. It is not clear cutting, it is deforestation, or moving woodland to another category. This is indeed a problem, but not so much in Europe. But if we see that we want to grow the area of the forest, then we have to deal with it seriously. Achieving, of course, clean solutions for mineral extraction is also a matter of innovation. How can we get these precious metals out so that we can minimize the damage to nature? It is clear that we should start with the sensible things that are affordable and that are the most effective. It should start now and quickly. It is also quite clear that an old well should not be closed until the new one is ready. Of course, however, this postulate should not be a reason for not digging a new well. These issues should certainly be dealt with immediately. But if we forge and ignore the tolerance of our people, we will certainly do a disservice to the whole process. There is no doubt about that. I don't think we can, and I don't really have to run in front of that green turn train. Of course, that doesn't mean we should be jogging behind this train either. Our ambition should be to be as close as possible to the driving levers on this train and in the locomotive, in order to shape for the Estonian state this whole social change so that our people and the state will remain constant throughout the ages. Of course, it is understandable that our country and our people will survive through the ages when Europe is well. And Europe is good when the world is good. But we must not lose focus on this question. These were some of the thoughts of this very broad area, of a very big question that we actually touched only at the edge here today. Once again, thank you to the people who brought this question to this hall. I am quite sure that these discussions will have to be held again and again here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U115	I now ask Riina Sikkut, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U116	Thank you, good Chairman. I'm gonna take three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U117	Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start by thanking the waitresses. I guess that reflects a little bit of what I think of today's debate. First of all, I really thank Mrs Brauni, who, already in the European Union Affairs Committee, surprised me with the clear message that this is what will bring about the future prosperity of Europe. It's nothing to fear or harm us in any way. This is an opportunity that we must use to make it possible for all of us to live better. But [the message was] also that the heroes can only be fair. You can't do that on someone's account or leaving someone behind. The package proposed by the European Commission is precisely what will enable a welfare-enhancing and fair transition. This is not an randomly proposed set of numbers or table. It is knowledge-based, it is based on the best scientific knowledge, it is within Europe's reach and really something that we should implement over the next ten years. Next, Lauri Tammiste surprised me with a very clear message that there is no room for discussion here. At the moment, there is no place for negotiations that offer more or less than one-and-a-half degrees. The message of scientists has been clear for decades, the same: we need to make a decision. Mart Noorma's enthusiasm I would like to see at government level, want to take this opportunity to be an opportunity for our research and innovation, something that our scientists expect. There are many areas where we already have strengths, something that benefits both Estonian scientists and the economy. Siim Kallas highlighted Estonia's challenges very well, but I especially liked this personal feature. I think that this is the way politicians should say that green turns are not something abstract, something strange, something imposed on us, but climate change is already affecting us, the decisions we make in our daily lives. The speakers' messages were, in my view, very contrast to the fact that, just before today's debate, the Minister for the Environment was appointed, who had said in the interview yesterday that, well, this is a slogan for politicians in large countries. I would not say that it is a slogan, rather it is an existential concern for both Estonia and other countries of the European Union. These major points of criticism or concern have already been heard here. On the one hand, the fact that we cannot start running first if others do nothing and how to get these authoritarian countries to go in the same direction. But that, too, I think, is at least between the lines in the "Objective 55" package. We are an example, we are setting a standard. And, in fact, the belief that we can set the world course and change something is needed for Europe's future. I think that the plan put on the table for the green turn is not just about transport, agriculture, energy, that is the plan for the future of Europe. We are talking about the climate crisis and, of course, we will have a parallel to the health crisis here. As we have seen in Estonia, there is a need for clear messages regarding crisis management, a plan is needed so that our people and businesses understand what the next decisions are, which are the next steps, and if there is a change in the environment, what is the direction, plan or path of Estonia. Just as it is needed in the management of the health crisis, it is also needed in the implementation of the green turn. What is Estonia's plan? That is why the Committee on European Union Affairs has made a series of hearings on the green turn, today's debate, and hopefully will continue on this issue, because for Estonia, a clear plan is being made for us to fit into the "Fit for 55" framework and whether there are places we want to negotiate. If we don't have a plan of our own, then we'll finally have to start implementing someone else's plan, which may not be the best plan for us. Estonia certainly has a green turn to win. But it depends on our own ability to agree in this Chamber how we will implement the green turn for Estonia. I really liked the way Heiki Hepner said that it was important for Estonia to keep the people and the state safe through the ages. You can only agree with that. But just as for the future of Europe, the key to greening is that which leads us to the future of Europe, where we can have a say in the world, is just as [the key to greening] to the survival of the Estonian people and the state, whether we are talking about the richness of our species and the forests or the livelihood of our people. It is our job to make the sheer rounds work in such a way as to keep our people and our country safe. So I think some kind of platform is in place today. Now, the next step is the position of the government. Very many of the questioners and participants in the debate here were members of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The government's positions come to the table of the European Union Affairs Committee. Our task is to be demanding and critical and to refine the plan so that it is best suited to Estonia. I actually saw [today] this interest and, well, every colleague has a topic that is close to his heart and for which he stands. I hope that all of this will now come with us to the Commission's table, and we will have a good plan for Estonia. Good luck to all of us, and we're still going along with clear messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-11-18_U119	Thank you. For strength, sure! So, any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. It is now that I am very grateful to the Committee on European Union Affairs and to its chairman, Mr Kallas. Thank you for this to the entire Commission Secretariat. I would like to thank the rapporteurs Helena Braun, Lauri Tammiste and Mart Noorma and, of course, the waitress Siim Kallas. The debate is closed and the first item is closed. We are not going to the second item, because we do not have that today. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you.
