ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We have a technical malfunction at the moment, neither the satchel squad nor the bell before the votes, so the chairman's break is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U2	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! It's the anniversary of the June deportation. I ask all of us to rise to commemorate the victims with silence. [[The silence of grief.]] Thank you. Dear fellow Members, we will start the 18th working week Monday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Before we go to the [transfer] and the hearing of drafts and enquiries, we must decide together, and I think we can only do this very strictly if there is consensus in this Chamber. In fact, the call sign clock doesn't work properly, it works in some places, but [generally] it doesn't work. We have to take that into account. If we have votes, we're gonna have to ring the doorbell for up to two minutes, but it won't work. It's something that works, but it's usually worked louder. So that's a problem too. I was consulting with the leaders of the political groups for a moment, but I ask if anyone in this hall will protest if we go to today's sitting, if the squad, if the clock doesn't work, and whoever is in charge must be based on two minutes. There's no other way. But we can't give the watch, or we can only do it 10%, no more, but it's not correct. Is anyone protesting that we are going to have a hearing like this and hold a hearing like this? Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U3	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to report that the Isamaa Group is prepared to work without drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U4	Thank you. I don't see any protests right now. Excuse me, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U5	Good manager! It's purely my personal belief that if the clock doesn't work and we're used to moving like Pavlov's dogs here at the right moment, maybe it's possible to extend this arrival time from two minutes to longer. By good will.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U6	Thank you. We have the law of the house and the rules of procedure, it says two minutes, but I don't see a problem either if we make it half a minute longer than everyone agrees. But the law says there's up to two minutes. We have to take into account that if there is a protest that our clocks are not working, I think it is very difficult for us to proceed with this sitting. So this really requires a very big compromise in this Chamber. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural [question]!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U7	Kalle Grünthal will not protest against your proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U8	Thank you very much. Erkki Keldo, procedural [question]. I'm gonna ask for the microphone back to Peter Ernits. I'm suggesting that we still work at two minutes apart. If we make it longer, we will again not be in line with the rule of law. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U9	No, I didn't protest. I suggested that if, then, not that it should.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U10	Thank you for your understanding. Rene Chef, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The EKRE Group has no problem. We'll all be in the hall in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U12	Thank you very much. So we are now going to the implementation of this sitting, and we are all three members of the Bureau trying very hard to make sure that the sergeants are perfectly orderly in this situation. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U13	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Traffic Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U14	I don't see any more requests. The Government of the Republic has delivered two drafts, and on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. Their further processing is decided in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U15	82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Messages. Honourable Riigikogu, pursuant to § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, § 51 (1) of the Law on the Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and § 14 of the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic, on the proposal of the President of the Republic, I invite the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of Toompea Castle to meet at the beginning of the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu on 30 August 2021 at 13:00. The agenda of the session shall be the election of the President of the Republic. Dear colleagues, the agenda is now clarified and approved. Rene Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We already went to the item, didn't we? Then on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U17	Excuse me, would you like to vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U18	Take the item out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U19	Oh, okay, I'm sorry. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U20	So I'll start over. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please remove the draft law 366 from the agenda of this 18th working week and do not process it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U21	Thank you. I'm going to ask you once, if 366, is the first point of Tuesday, 15 June. Is that right? Thank you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U22	Thank you, Mr President. The Reform Party Group does not agree to remove this item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U23	Got it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will now be quite a lot of information and clarification before the agenda is adopted. The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to exclude the debate on the following drafts from the agenda of this working week. Item one, second reading of the draft law 372 on the amendment of the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The table is currently divided into the agenda which takes account of these clarifications. Item two, second reading of the eIdentification and Trust Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Identity Documents Act and the Amendment Act 376. Point three, First reading of bill 378 of amendments to the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Point four, First reading of Bill 382 of the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws. Point 5, First reading of draft Act 386 on the approval of amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes initiated by the Government of the Republic. Item six, First reading of Bill 395 of Amendment of the Construction Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Next, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to exclude the debate on the following drafts from the agenda of this working week. Item one, First reading of the Bill of Amendment to the Commercial Code and Accounting Act 394 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Item 2, First reading of Bill 403 of the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Social Affairs Committee has proposed to exclude from the agenda of this working week the second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The Committee on Culture has proposed that the debate on the Culture Development Plan 2021/2030 be excluded from the agenda of this working week. The Committee on Rural Affairs has proposed to exclude from the agenda of this working week the second and third reading of the draft law amending the law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic. At the additional sittings on 12 and 13 June, we were able to discuss the following items: Item one, first reading of the Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act, 397 initiated by the Special Anti-Corruption Commission. Point two, Third reading of Bill 359 of Amendment of the Information Society Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Point three, second reading of Bill 366 of Amendment of the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other Acts. Last night, at the additional session of 13 June, we did not finish the second reading of the Bill 381 on Amending the Water Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. We will continue this debate in today's sitting. The other three drafts, which we did not have time to discuss at the additional meetings, are on the agenda on Tuesdays of 383, 292 and 379 of this working week, on items 7, 9 and 10 respectively, as the Bureau confirmed by consensus at its meeting on 10 June. Good fellows... Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U24	Thank you. I would, however, try to approach a little legally, so many proposals [came] at once. Now, on behalf of the Group, Mr Cook has proposed to remove one item from the agenda. Since it was not supported by Mr Gridship, this question, I understand, has been resolved so that this draft is on the agenda. What is the difference between a Commission wishing to withdraw a draft after the agenda is announced? Is it the same that a political group can challenge it and then it will remain on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U25	Thank you, Mr Ossinovski. Yes, you are right, the proposal made by Rene Koka, which was by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, would have come true if no one had opposed it. The President of the Reform Party Group took the floor and said that he opposed it. The announcement of the agenda that you asked for is governed by § 54 (4) which states that, after the agenda is made available, the draft shall be excluded from the agenda at the request of the initiator, the drafter or the commission. Where there are two initiators or performers, both originators or performers shall be required to sign the request for exclusion from the agenda. Where there are more than two initiators or performers, more than half of the originators or performers must have signed the exclusion application. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U26	Good manager! In view of the earlier developments, and if six other readings have been made by tomorrow, this agenda obviously will not get very far. And what does that mean? So they shift to Wednesday [a day], or do they make another yellow paper again? And so [will be] constantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U27	Thank you. Answer: If it really happens that this good pace, for example on Tuesday, 15 June, does not allow 12 agenda items to be processed and six second readings to be read, then yes, they will shift by Wednesday. Is there a new agenda for our tables? Yeah, they do. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U28	Well, I will now continue with this first question. In particular, this same paragraph you have referred to is preceded by paragraph 3, as is always the case with paragraph 4. And paragraph 3 says that an item can be added if no one objects. In the past, if paragraph 4 had not been introduced recently, paragraph 3 was interpreted in such a way that it concerns additions in the context of both withdrawal and addition. Now we have a separate withdrawal clause, and it says that the draft will be withdrawn from the agenda without a vote there will be no veto right, as I understand from the paragraph you have read, when this withdrawal is proposed by the initiator, author or commission. On what legal basis is Mr Koka's proposal, which was contested by Mr Netter?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U29	Thank you, Honourable Jevgeni Ossinovski. It is true that § 54 (14) states that if the commission decides to withdraw [point] from the agenda, it cannot be challenged and withdrawn. If you ask what Rene Koka's proposal is based on, it has been our practice all along that if a group proposes, it will come true if no one objects. In this case, one group opposed it. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U30	Thank you, good Chairman! Last Wednesday, I think, if I am not mistaken, the vice-president Hanno Pevkur was asked, which is why we have 12 second readings on the agenda, whether it is enthusiastic. He said we've been working on longer agendas. Now, if Peter Ernits pointed out that there were other readings [in the order of the day], should we, as ambassadors, consider that on Saturday and Sunday, we may have additional sessions in the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U31	Thank you. I don't have any information that an emergency meeting has been called for this week's Saturday and Sunday. Is it possible to convene an emergency sitting? Paragraphs 50, 51 and 52 provide for the convening of an extraordinary session. But I don't have any information that's being done right now. Procedural question, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Isn't it true that there was once a law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure and good practice provides that the composition of each Riigikogu for the next composition will still specify a little [home order]. At the end of the previous term, there really was a.. or it was already an addition at the end of the previous Good Mr Ossinovski certainly remembers that one day during the week he was able to do an extraordinary committee meeting and that the Commission was able to take certain things out. I can't anymore. Now it is that, until the hammer blows, either the initiator, the Commission or the initiators together, if no one is protesting, can be done without a dispute. Any member of the Riigikogu can make proposals to change the agenda until the hammer kicks. So there are no restrictions in that sense. I assume Rene Koka had some suggestions. If someone protests and if he is not the initiator of this draft or a representative of the main committee, that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U33	Thank you. Yes, the existing paragraph has indeed entered into force at the end of the previous Riigikogu, in March 2019. Peter Ernits, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U34	Good manager! The same thing goes on. If on Tuesday [days] move forward on Wednesday, but we have a total of eight second readings, plus other [days], we will not end this [days] on Thursday, according to modest calculations. Does this mean that the Bureau will convene additional meetings on Friday or the weekend? Or are those drafts that have not been discussed excluded from the spring season procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U35	Thank you. Answer. If the agenda has not been dealt with by Thursday, these items cannot be put to an additional sitting, as only an extraordinary sitting can be convened between sessions. An extraordinary meeting may be convened pursuant to §§ 50, 51 and 52. Are these drafts moving to the autumn session? Yes, if an emergency session is not called, they will shift to the autumn session. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U36	Thank you. Well, if I understand correctly now, the Bureau's interpretation of this amendment for 2019, the interpretation of § 54 (3) is that without a vote, the draft will be withdrawn from the agenda at the request of the commission or initiator. This way, we can unilaterally change the agenda. At the same time, there is also an additional possibility that each Member of Parliament will have the opportunity to propose that any draft be withdrawn from the agenda before the agenda is adopted and will remain off the agenda if no one objects. Is my interpretation correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U37	I always try to follow your speeches, Mr Ossinovski. My sense is, yes. A procedural question, Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U38	Thank you. Well, there was such a long line of drafts that were all taken out of [the day]. I have not previously received this information from the Riigikogu Board, which has been cut off by various committees by slices. But I was able to attend a few discussions myself. For example, draft 382 is a very important draft law on ensuring the sustainability criteria and is directly related to draft 156, as is clear at today's meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I don't think that should be taken off this agenda. I don't know what to say about all the drafts right now, because from that long list, I couldn't identify what just came out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U39	Point one, I agree that this proposal to withdraw could have been on the tables of members of the Riigikogu. I'm sorry about that! Point two, when you spoke of draft 382 and its withdrawal, it is true that this is the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U40	Is this interpretation such that, in those cases where the Commission has decided by majority vote to make any draft out of [the agenda] notification, MEPs no longer really have the right to cross this proposal? This does not, in fact, seem very proportionate given the general logic of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U41	By answering the first part, yes. In replying to the other side, as far as I know, the working group of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act is going to work together under the direction of Hanno Pevkur, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. There are people in each group, and each group can make these adjustments in that working group. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U42	Thank you! We found out about that. A question about today's Water Act. This is a peculiar story, because the Water Act should actually be on the agenda tomorrow. In general, there are very specific procedures for announcing and approving the agenda, as can be read in our wise book. And clearly, they have been made so that Members know in advance how, when and in what order the points will be discussed. Point one. This has been done to protect the opposition so that, for example, it would not be possible to move the points forward with the majority votes in such a way that it would be possible to manipulate the results of the vote, for example, when it is known that for some reason some Members of Parliament are not present. Now it was announced on Thursday, if I am not mistaken that the water law debate is on Tuesday. Colleagues knew to take this into account, but suddenly today at 3:00 it turned out to be today.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U43	Thank you. I guess there's been a lot of these agendas on this table lately. Now, why is the bill 381 second reading today? The reason is as follows: at yesterday's supplementary session, this draft was not in progress. If the draft is not in progress, it will be dealt with at the next sitting, which is today's sitting. That is the reason: we stuck with the 381 amendments to the Water Act. We're on the first amendment if my memory doesn't fool me. And now what you're saying is that on the previous agenda it was put on Tuesday, it was definitely conditional. As you can see, when we approve this week's agenda, the seventh item on Thursday 17 June is the third reading of 381 SE conditionally: in case the second reading is closed. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U44	Thank you. It's not a bully, it's just a precedent-creating subject, and I think it deserves a thorough approach. I understand that some of my colleagues find this irrelevant and insignificant, but it is not for me. The procedure is the foundation of Parliament's work. In general, the Riigikogu approves the weekly agenda. Between days, agenda items may shift as a result of working time being over, for example, but in general this agenda applies within a week. Every week, during the working week, the Riigikogu approves the new agenda. Now, this commentary provision on which you rely, which says that the issues that have not been discussed by the House during the last week of work will be put first on the agenda next week or 'first', as it states. If we read these comments, there is a very reasonable explanation that, if, for example, on Thursday, the Bureau will send out a new agenda on Thursday night, which will include a legal obligation for the management to take these points into the first order. In the old days [were these points] on Tuesdays, now probably it must be interpreted as having [these points] on Mondays. We're in a completely different situation right now. This point concerns the time when [the order of business] will be announced, and those points that have not been discussed will in fact be placed on the agenda for next week. At the moment, an agenda has been announced, where the Water Act is on Tuesday, and further meetings have taken place in the meantime. A certain item on the agenda has not yet been discussed at the additional sittings. The agenda has been informed and the same item is there; it will be on Tuesday. The Bureau has decided to take it on Monday. There is, of course, no such thing in the comments on this provision, because I think it is a relatively unprecedented situation in which we are currently in. That is why the question is that if we interpret it in this way, we imagine a situation where, for example, the coalition, for some reason, would like to make tomorrow's agenda the first point, something else, for example, Thursday. Then, half an hour before the beginning of the plenary session, at 9.30 a further sitting will be convened, the debate will be held and, according to this logic, the Hopsti will continue at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. If the debate is still ongoing at the additional sitting, it will proceed immediately to the next item on the agenda. In this way, the approved agenda, this paper and the schedule that guide the Riigikogu's work will lose any guarantee. In this way, it is actually possible to begin to manipulate the way in which the items on the agenda are discussed, and that is why I consider this to be a pretty fundamental issue. In addition, of course, the question is that I know the Members who want to participate in the debate on this particular law, but they knew that it would take place according to the agenda tomorrow or perhaps on Wednesday, if [this date on Tuesday] is not reached, but certainly not on Monday. Even today at 12 o'clock, the Riigikogu website did not say that the Water Act is on the agenda today. There hasn't been a written message about this until I saw it on this piece of paper. I think this has violated the rights and expectations of the members of the Riigikogu on the agenda of this week. This interpretation, which is now, I think, needs a substantive basis, not just a reference to a specific paragraph, because it deals with other cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U45	Thank you. The truth is that yesterday, too, there was quite a lot of discussion about what you have been dealing with today. Both the authorities, the members of the Riigikogu's board of directors and you had the understanding that if the agenda item was to be closed at an additional sitting, it would be postponed to the first item of the next sitting, as has happened at the moment. Now, if you take this structure of yours to hold an additional hearing on Tuesday morning, we can say that there is actually a guarantee in this regard, this is § 49, which speaks of an additional sitting of the Riigikogu, talking about its convening and that it must be done at least three days before the additional sitting takes place. True, given your long-term experience in this Riigikogu, we know that this section also has the last sentence that says that if there are compelling reasons, the notice period may be shorter. I can't deny it can happen like you say. But I don't know that that's exactly why there would have been an additional hearing. At least recently, we have been following these three days, if possible, between [the convening of the additional sitting and its holding]. It is true that the additional sitting on Saturday was announced two days in advance, not three days in advance. Mailis Reps, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U46	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm taking my time, but it seems like we've had too little working hours here lately. Well, we'll talk. First of all, the agenda for the additional sitting, good Ossinovski knows exactly, was announced only with those items that were not dealt with. Perhaps the agenda for the additional sitting last week was based on what was not on the agenda for the week. We had to know exactly one week. All members of the Riigikogu, including those who may need a little more time to reflect, knew it a week in advance. Now, what you're saying is that on the website [there was no such information], that I really couldn't comment at the moment, I didn't visit the website this morning, but last night, a puppy before midnight it was known to us that the hearing would be interrupted. [It was known] to all members of the Riigikogu, including, Evgeni, you. And this morning, we can move on nicely from where he left off. It has also been a good two days in advance to report further sessions. Or, actually, it was three days in advance. Now the most important question is whether these additional sessions can be held arbitrarily. Well, life has shown different things in this Parliament's work, but one thing is clear: we have a rather limited time for additional sessions under the Home and Working Procedures Act. It cannot be during the regular sitting, it cannot be during the regular committee sessions, and therefore there could be an additional sitting, I understand when you discussed Tuesday, then theoretically you are entitled to the.o.p. Tuesday after midnight and before the morning session, before 10 o'clock. Well, theoretically, that would be possible. But now again, last week's additional sitting was transferred here only because [these items on the agenda] were not dealt with last week.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U47	Thank you. I understand that was more of an explanation. But as much as I would like to say to Mr Ossinovski, I think that this issue must be discussed in this working group in any case and, if it needs to be clarified, it must be clarified. I mean, [to be specified] in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Hanno Pevkur, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U48	Thank you. I really do have a procedural [question] and maybe it'll help Evgeny a little bit further. Do I understand the explanations of the President of the Riigikogu and, in fact, the decision of the management board correctly, of course, I am still on the board, and there we made this decision really, that if we had continued with the principle that Mr Ossinovski said that we would leave [this draft] on the Tuesday agenda, as is theoretically possible, then we would be in a situation where we would discuss some points on Tuesday, we would arrive at the water law point, and then we would start surprisingly suddenly discussing the amendments, because negotiations and everything else were going through yesterday? It would have been very unprecedented, given the practice of the Riigikogu so far, that the Riigikogu, opening an item on an item on the agenda, would begin the debate on amendments. Therefore, this practice, which has previously been in the Riigikogu, is that if a point is not completed, this point will be discussed first in the next session. This was also the reason why the councillors of the Riigikogu, as well as the Riigikogu Board, considered it reasonable that this point, which was not in progress at the additional session, could have been the Water Act or any of the following points, will be discussed at the first session when we meet. Because otherwise we are really in a situation where, in the middle of the day, we have a debate on amendments without negotiation and everything to change. So theoretically, I understand, yes, we are able to lift it back to where it was originally, but this would result in an even greater precedent, which we have not previously had in Riigikogu practice, that the Riigikogu is discussing the item since the discussion of amendments. In my opinion, this [the order of business] that is now on the table is in line with the spirit of the law. Perhaps the item in progress will be discussed next, and the rest will be taken from the agenda already sent to the members of the Riigikogu with the clarifications made between the removal of the agenda and the approval of the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U49	Thank you. Yeah. Yes is the answer to your procedural question. But I will also add so much that if we take the true publication of this law on the Rules of Procedure and Home, which we have commented on, it has already been ten years since it appeared, it will be as follows: 'The Riigikogu will not take up the next item on the agenda until the previous treatment has been completed. ' I think you referred to this once, Mr Ossinovski. As regards § 53 (3) above, matters not discussed during the previous working week of the plenary session will be put on the agenda for the new working week first. I understand that there is now a dispute that we will not be taking [the questions] first on Monday on the agenda of the regular sittings last week, but that we will first on the agenda of the additional sitting [the items on the agenda] on Monday of the regular working week. Now, if we come to one version of Mr Pevkur, which says that it could be a pretty fool on Tuesday, of course, but, basically, it is also possible that we will start a second reading on the agenda somewhere in the middle of the agenda on Tuesday and start reviewing the amendments. The Bureau's position was that we should start on Monday as the first item, even though there was an additional session. So that's the explanation, there's no better. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U50	Thank you. First of all, in reply to Mail, that additional sessions may also be held during committees [sessions] and at different other times, in this respect at home...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U51	Evgeny Ossinovski, please! [[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U52	... the Rules of Procedure do not impose any restrictions in this respect. Indeed, the practice is that both the extension of working time on Tuesdays and Thursdays, but it is also generally based on the fact that committees can do their job. However, in the general hierarchy of rules, the plenary session is more important; there is no doubt about that. If there is a need for a plenary sitting during political group meetings, this can be done in the same way. It was just a remark, you don't have to focus on it anymore. However, in response to Mr Pevkur and also to the President of the Riigikogu, the question is not only that items are transferred here from the supplementary sitting to the so-called regular agenda. That's one half of it. The other side is that the transfer to today's agenda was not on the agenda announced on Thursday. If we look at these two provisions together with the announcement of the agenda, the adoption of the agenda and, sorry, also the third provision, the improvement of the agenda, I will make it very easy to do this, the [serial] will be announced and, once announced, it can only be supplemented if no political group is opposed, right? We all understand that in the same way. With regard to the approval of the agenda, § 55 states that amendments may be made before [approval] only if the political groups are not opposed or in the cases listed in § 56. The discussion that has been pending at the additional meeting between the announcement and confirmation of [the order of business] is not in § 56, there is a closed list. This means that there is currently no legal basis for adding water to the agenda from Monday. As the agenda is a very strictly regulated part of Parliament's work, there is currently no legal basis for this amendment. Now, logically, I understand, of course, that it is absurd to start discussing amendments on the 11th item tomorrow; I have absolutely no doubt about that. And in this context, where we obviously also have the issue of certain unregulated regulations...... in our Home and Working Procedures Act, I think it would be appropriate if the Bureau, for example, had spoken to the leaders of the political groups about this issue, tried to find a solution to this issue. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] As I said, there has actually been no announcement to the members of the Riigikogu until this has already happened. For example, one possible solution would be to raise the Water Act by common agreement if no one objects, I think that such an agreement can be achieved, this water law for tomorrow's first point. In that case, we will start tomorrow with the vote on the amendments. Indeed, it is not the case that at first there are a bunch of other readings and only then is it. By the way, we will continue to process the pending draft as the first point, because the Monday agenda is empty, and we will not violate the Riigikogu's law on home and working procedures. It's important to me because it's a precedent-creating practice right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U53	I was just thinking once about your procedural question. We have a regular meeting, the agenda has been approved by the Bureau on Thursday and announced on Friday. We have adopted it in plenary on Monday and it contains the agenda items on Tuesdays and the agenda items on Wednesdays. If a person thinks he or she will want to discuss this item on Tuesday, he or she will be in the Riigikogu. There may be exactly the same example that this point is not in progress on Tuesday, that a member of the Riigikogu wishes to express his will in negotiations, in the round of questions or in the ballot round, and that it shifts to Wednesday, then there is exactly the same problem that you say that the item on the agenda has been announced one day, but actually the debate takes place on the second day. A procedural question, René Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. There has been a very interesting and undoubtedly educational debate. I wanted to ask you now that I proposed before taking out this draft 366 and that it did not find any support. Now you have read a number of drafts that the committees want to withdraw. Perhaps, however, we can find consensus in this Chamber to discuss them? The Conservative People's Party of Estonia undoubtedly has a desire to discuss them and maybe the Grand Hall is willing to discuss them and maybe it doesn't have to take them out. The proposal is to continue with those drafts that we once had on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U55	Thank you. Well, what you asked for is actually fixed in § 54 (3), which says that once the agenda is announced, it may be supplemented only if no political group opposes it, except in the cases provided for in § 56 of this Act. A procedural question, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U56	Thank you, Honourable Manager. My question is not about the Water Act, but about the agenda sent out on Friday, which the Board of the Riigikogu has approved. It provides for the second reading of the Bill 366 on the Amendment of the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic by Monday and the related amendment of other laws. For some reason, it has now been postponed for Tuesday, yet on the approved agenda it should be today. If we wish to proceed as the first item of the water law that has not been completed, this could be done today before the item that was already on the agenda, and then we should proceed today with the 366 debate. For what reasons and who decided to reject it by Tuesday, Monday?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U57	Thank you. If the question is now [in the bill] 366, then the reason is that point one, that was the decision of the board, and point two, we also have to consider when the deadline for submitting the materials to the hall is. But it seems to me that in order for this legal issue to be resolved by the Water Act... However, I am asking for a ten-minute break right now, and we will meet with the Bureau for a moment, and then we will continue to decide. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U58	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that the intermission was longer. The Board of the Riigikogu and the leaders of the political groups gathered and discussed the situation. The proposal is to move today's item No 1 to the sixth item on Tuesday. Perhaps after the third readings, we will continue with the other readings. If no one opposes this proposal in the political groups, I shall put the agenda to the vote with this clarification and the clarifications that the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu had previously read. Everyone understand what's going on? Today's item No 1 will move to agenda item No 6 on Tuesday and from item No 6 the following points will proceed accordingly: 7, 8, etc. With this clarification, I shall put the agenda to the vote. Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U59	There is 55 votes for, 3 against and 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U60	Now everyone has the opportunity to register in a free microphone. Please! Who wants a word in a free microphone? Mr. Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U61	... to ask for silence before?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U62	Mr. Ernits, I'm sorry for a moment. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Quiet in the hall, please! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U63	If you don't mind, I'll say a few words. Today, as I know, our Prime Minister is meeting with the President of the United States, and it is a good time to recall what the US Government recently wrote in the budget explanatory memorandum, where he replaced the word'mother' with a 'birthable person'. According to this, the person we are born with, who is in the role of Prime Minister, is meeting right now... But who's he meeting? The President of the United States. But what should you call him or call me? I'm not a human being. The President of [the sitting] is also not a human being born. But who are we? Maybe we're procreational people, or should we use another word? I think this is a very important subject, it is the introduction of a so-called new normality. I quote Newsweek: 'If we use the term 'born person', we are inclusive. It's so simple. We use gender-neutral wording when talking about pregnancy, because not only women born into a woman's body (local genders) can become pregnant and give birth. Reproductive freedom is for every body. ' Reproductive freedom. Is that for Midsummer Day's wife and Christmas man or the other way around? Who am I? I'm local and Leo at least is, and I think some of us are local. But who are the others, amphibians or amphibians? And yet, what do we do with women's day? Do we call it the day of the person born according to the blowing winds? But who are the women who can't give birth or who don't want to give birth? And yet, who are we men? A breeding man, a sperm man? What about Mother's Day? The day of the people who are giving birth? But yes, not all women can or do not want to give birth, and that is clear discrimination. What do I mean by that? In the case of a new normality that pushes on all sides, including the United States of America, the constructions of'man and woman' are only one option, but there are still transgender ones. If gender identity, gender expression or gender behaviour are incompatible with human biological sex, it is transgender. However, I ask the few colleagues who have stayed: what is masculinity, what is femininity? We should call it what it was, the human being of birth or the human being of reproduction. What do we do with the magazine Estonian Woman? The person who gives birth to Estonia? What about the ones who don't have children for some reason? The reason I wanted to talk is because our esteemed Prime Minister, the human being born, if you call it Biden's administration, meets the procreational person, or, I don't know, I haven't found that match, you could think about it on the beautiful day that we've had other subjects. But you could think more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-06-14_U64	I don't see any more calls in a free microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
