ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! We will begin the Monday session of the 9th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! I present an inquiry into the state of education in Estonian in Ida-Virumaa, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna. The official language of Estonia is Estonian. National language skills among all population groups are one of the most important guarantees of our culture, national independence and social security. Due to the lack of knowledge of the Estonian language, the possibilities for self-fulfilment of non-Estonian children are reduced, there is a narrowing of the social network and there is a risk of remaining in the information field tilted by countries that are not friendly to Estonia. The consequences of all of this are economic, social, educational, cultural, security and public health, as noted in the explanatory memorandum to Riigikogu draft decision No 2 "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to make Estonia's basic and school education uniform and Estonian," one of the initiators of which was Liina Kersna, a opposition politician who was part of the group. This draft was forwarded in April 2019. We have a number of questions. In time, only a few of them. What steps do you intend to take to complete the transition of the Estonian system of general education schools to the Estonian language of instruction? What, in your opinion, is the realistic deadline for the transition of Russian-language schools to the Estonian language of instruction in Tallinn, which one in Ida-Virumaa? What measures are you planning to prevent further deterioration of the situation of education in Estonian in Ida-Virumaa, including initiatives by local governments to close schools with an Estonian language of instruction, as is happening in Lüganus? What are the specific steps taken by the Ministry of Education and Research to improve the quality of education and youth work in Estonian with the aim of preventing Estonian young people from leaving Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U3	Dear Üllar Saaremäe...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U4	The inquiry has been transmitted digitally. Artists: Helir-Valdor Seeder, Urmas Reinsalu, Sven Sester, Raivo Tamm and Üllar Saaremäe from the Isamaa faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U5	Good members of the Riigikogu, we try to stay in time. Please, government representative Heili Tõnisson! Dear Heili Tõnisson, you are not heard in the hall at the moment, so can you look at your settings? I can hear you now. Let's try, please! Yeah, I can hear you now. Please, Heili Tõnisson! I'm sorry, I still can't hear you...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U6	[[The speech doesn't make any sense.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U7	I'm sorry. Heili Tõnisson, I'm sorry, I have to abort. I'm sorry. Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U8	... The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Secondly, the draft amendment of the Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act and the Social Tax Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Culture represents the government when dealing with the bill. And thirdly, the contract of employment...
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U9	Honourable Riigikogu and good colleagues, since there really is no representative of the Government of the Republic, there is no way I can accept these drafts at the moment. I suggest we try to re-test immediately. Let's give the floor to Heili Tõnisson again and ask that we try to make this connection. Heili Tõnisson, please try again if you can hear us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U10	... Okay. Is it...?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U11	I'm afraid not. Your question was already intermittent, so I do not think that we can continue with this connection right now. Good Riigikogu, I'll take the chairman's break four minutes. We'll try to make contact, and if it doesn't work out, we'll move on to the hearing. So break four minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U12	Good fellows, the chairman's break is over. Now let's try to get back in touch with government representative Heili Tõnisson. Please, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U13	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Information Society Service Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Secondly, the draft law amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions and the Social Tax Act. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Culture in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U14	Thank you. Thank you and thank you to our technical staff for making this connection! There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Good colleagues, we're now conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U15	92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. Let us now move on to the adoption of the agenda and the specification of the agenda. It has been announced that the Committee on Rural Affairs has proposed to exclude 11th item from the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, the first reading of the draft law 309 on the amendment of the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Kalle Grünthal, please, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U16	Thank you. I'd like to know, I mean, for what reasons it's been excluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U17	Thank you. In accordance with the procedure, the commission has now proposed this to the Bureau and the Assembly. The Steering Committee shall have the right to make such proposals. There are no reasons for me at the moment. Together with this amendment, I shall put the agenda to a vote and we shall proceed to the vote on the approval of the agenda for the 9th working week of the V session. Dear members of the Riigikogu, can we go to the vote? I am voting on the agenda for the 9th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U18	With the result of 87 votes against 1 and 2 abstentions, the agenda for this week has been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U19	Let's go to Monday's hearing. There are three questions and answers in today's session, after which there is a free microphone. The first inquiry was submitted by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Lotman and Helir-Valdor Seeder on 25 February 2021. The inquiry is about the reduction in funding for research grants in 2021 and bears the number 56. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Lotman, a member of the Riigikogu, to introduce this question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U20	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Minister, On 25 January, I asked the Prime Minister's candidate Kaja Kallas why there was no word about science in the coalition agreement. Not a word. In addition, the Prime Minister's candidate replied that, first, 1% of GDP would be invested in R &amp; D and, second, that the issue of doctoral candidates and young researchers would be addressed. "But in any case, I think that this research funding point is one very important point," confirmed the Prime Minister's candidate. But what really happened? A little more than two weeks after the new government took office, ETAg announced that only EUR 6.2 million would be allocated to research grants this year, compared to 16 million last year. I recall that 1% of GDP was allocated to science, not by the current government, but by the previous government, which increased the research budget by 56 million compared to last year. Against this background, the multiple reduction in funding for research grants seems particularly incomprehensible. It may not be necessary to recall that science grants have a very important role to play in the survival of Estonian science, and this particularly concerns young scientists. The reform of doctoral studies is important, but it is far from solving the problem of researchers' secondary growth. The main concern is that it is very difficult for young people to continue in science after defending their doctorate when there are practically no measures that allow them to do so. Not only start-up grants but also group grants have played an important role in creating jobs for young researchers, which will later be very difficult to make up for. Young researchers either leave Estonia or leave science at all. In the light of the foregoing, I have asked you a question, Minister, where I asked six specific questions. Firstly, how does the Ministry of Education and Research intend to ensure the sustainability of R &amp; D in a context of reduced grant financing? Secondly, how do you explain the fact that, despite additional R &amp; D funding of EUR 56 million, your responsibility cannot guarantee the funding of postdoctoral, start-up and group grants at a level comparable to last year? Thirdly, how will the reduction in the financial volume of research grants granted by the State affect the contribution of the private sector to research funding? What measures is the Ministry of Education and Research planning to increase the private sector's contribution to research funding? Fourthly, what are the Ministry's plans to prevent dissatisfaction and demotivation among the scientific community as a result of the reduction in the volume of scientific grants? Fifthly, what do you assess the combined impact of the reduction of science grants and the instability resulting from the corona crisis on the scientific community? Has the social security of researchers improved through the combination of these factors? Sixthly, with which proposals for R &amp; D funding will you go against the forthcoming negotiations on a national budget strategy? In particular, I ask that when you answer the questions asked, Minister, you focus not on how the situation has arisen but on how you intend to solve these existential problems for Estonian science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U21	Thank you very much, Mikhail Lotman. I ask the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersnal, to answer this question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U22	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will answer the questions you have asked. The first question: "How does the Ministry of Education and Research intend to ensure the sustainability of R &amp; D in a context of reduced grant financing? "The grant facility will not decrease in 2021, on the contrary, the Ministry of Education and Research has consistently increased the budget for research grants. In 2020, EUR 2.04 million was added to research grants and EUR 4 million this year. In 2021, the Ministry of Education and Research has a total of 46.31 million research grants in its research budget. In addition to steadily increasing the volume of research grants, the Ministry of Education and Research has also significantly increased the stable funding of research institutions, i.e. basic funding, which has tripled over the last five years, from 13.9 million to 46.3 million euros. Indeed, Estonia is one of the few countries in the European Union that have today allocated 1% of the gross domestic product to research and development from the state budget. Thank you very much to the previous government for its decision. In addition to research grants, R &amp; D is also financed by a number of other general and targeted measures. The second question: "How do you explain the fact that despite additional R &amp; D funding of EUR 56 million, the funding of postdoctoral, start-up and group grants cannot be guaranteed under your responsibility at a level comparable to that of 2020? " I start my answer just as I did the previous one. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that although EUR 56 million was added to support for R &amp; D in the state budget of 2021, it was divided into 40: 40: 20 between the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and sectoral ministries, and this was on the recommendation of the Research Council. The Ministry of Education and Research's R &amp; D budget increased by 22.4 million euros. I would stress that the budget for research grants has not decreased this year. Research grants were financed with €42.31 million in 2020 and €46.31 million this year, once again. In 2021 the volume of new, starting grants will be smaller, but so will the volume of current grants. Indeed, in the case of research grants, it must be taken into account that research grants are awarded for up to five years, with a duration of five years, and that the wave between years in the rounds for applying for research grants is a problem and it certainly needs to be resolved. We have also asked the Research Agency to propose to the Ministry how to further reduce the wave between the years. The third question: "How does the reduction in the volume of research grants granted by the state affect the private sector's contribution to the research facility? What measures is the Ministry of Education and Research planning to increase the private sector's contribution to research funding? According to the current state budget explanatory memorandum, the continued increase in basic funding and research grants must enable universities to continue to implement academic career models and contribute to the development of closer cooperation between companies and research institutions. " Once again, I assure you that the budget for research grants will not decrease but increase in 2021. According to the R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurship development plan discussed in the Riigikogu, the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology is responsible for increasing the R &amp; D and innovation capacity of companies. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has a number of measures to develop the R &amp; D capacities of companies, such as the Innovation Agency, the applied research programme and other measures. For its part, the Ministry of Education and Research has helped participants in the research system to better find partners among entrepreneurs, and has also supported the development of research capacities based on business interests. For example, in order to strengthen the IT Academy's ICT research capabilities, a programme of resource enhancement supporting business-driven R &amp; D in the fields of wood, food and land resources, support for cross-sectoral mobility and other activities. Okay. Question 4: "What are the Ministry's plans to prevent dissatisfaction and disincentives among the scientific community as a result of the drop in the number of scholarships? " Once again, the budget for research grants has not decreased this year. The Ministry of Education and Research has set its long-term objective of equalising competitive research grants and stable funding for research institutions to enable research institutions to pursue their strategic goals, as well as to reduce instability caused by competitive research grants, and to ensure the sustainable functioning of the R &amp; D system in terms of lower volumes of research grants. The amount of basic funding has tripled over the last five years, as I said earlier. In addition to research grants and basic funding, the Ministry of Education and Research has launched a number of other measures that diversify researchers' opportunities in research careers and enable them to apply for funding from other sources. Question 5: "How do you assess the combined impact of the decline in scientific grants and the instability resulting from the corona crisis on the scientific community? Has the social security of researchers improved through the combination of these factors? What are the plans of the Ministry of Education and Research to reduce the negative effects of the corona crisis and the fall in subsidies in research institutions? " Once again, research grants have not decreased this year, but increased by EUR 4 million. Despite the crisis in COVID-19, the research grants have continued smoothly and, to our knowledge, the crisis has not significantly disrupted research. The COVID-19 crisis has led to an increase in the value and impact of researchers and R &amp; D in society. Thus, according to the Ministry of Education and Research, the social security of researchers has increased. We will continue to work to maintain the sustainability of the research system and to further enhance the social security of researchers. I would also like to say that, in the context of the COVID crisis, there are 5.5 million COVID monitoring studies in our budget this year, for example. And the sixth question: "Which proposals for R &amp; D funding will you go against the forthcoming state budget strategy negotiations? " I confirm that we are sticking to the agreement to finance R &amp; D from the state budget with 1% of gross domestic product and respect the TAN recommendations to ensure additional money in proportion to 40: 40: 20. In the coming years, our preference will be to ensure that the doctoral reform is implemented and to find a solution for actions related to the exit from structural resources, in particular to continue supporting centres of excellence in research and public research infrastructure. We are also planning an increase in research grants and basic funding, following a proportion of 50:50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U23	Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. You have questions too. Let's get to the questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U24	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Science! This proportion of 50: 50 is actually a personal matter for me, because 2014, when I played the role of your predecessor, we also put together a working group that came up with this proposal. The main focus of science funding policy for the coming years has been that basic funding and competitive financing instruments should be balanced. I know, and you also said that for many years, there has been progress in this direction. But now that 1% is here, it would make sense for us to get there. In one of your answers, you said that this is a longer-term goal to move towards. Can you tell us what the proportion of basic funding and competitive instruments in 2021 is and what are the financial amounts in one and the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U25	Thank you for your question. Indeed, in 2014, if you were the Minister of Education and Science, the basic funding was 17% of the amount of research grants. That's where it's been every year, 50: 50. It must be said that I am sorry if my answers were wrong, because already in 2019 it was 49%, in 2020 it was already 50%, in 2021 it is also 50%. These amounts are as follows: 2021 is 46,3 million from both the basic and research grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U26	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U27	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have read many beautiful numbers, but the reality is, unfortunately, that a large part of this money often gets its own individual peaks and entire areas are deprived of very important funding. For example, in recent years many literary and folklore scientists have expressed concern that the Estonian Literary Museum and the folklore archive that is part of it will not receive sufficient funding. In recent years, scientists at the Literary Museum have failed to obtain funding for any major project and as a result, monumental works such as Vana Kannel or Estonian fairy tales have been interrupted. How would you comment on this situation and whether there is any improvement in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U28	Thank you. This is a very important subject. We've announced a contest for the director of the literary museum, or we're about to announce it. I hope that if the Literary Museum gets a new director, I think these things will get better. There has been confusion, and we hope that this situation will improve. This is certainly an important area of science in which to invest.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U29	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U30	Thank you. Dear Minister, The overall funding of universities is very important for research funding. The state has concluded three-year administrative contracts, and it is time to conclude new contracts. Do you already have negotiations with universities on new administrative contracts? Do you also intend to include the condition that foreign students must go through a certain amount of study of Estonian language and culture? I think this is extremely important. In previous negotiations on the conclusion of administrative contracts, this was one of the subject-matter of the debate and is currently included in the agreements. Are you going to demand that it stays inside? Secondly, how do you comment on a situation where the pay of university teachers may be lower than that of teachers in general education schools? Is this normal? Are there any solutions to be expected in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U31	Thank you. The amount of basic funding for universities has also increased by 5% every year. We are about to start negotiations on administrative agreements. These are the negotiations. We'll see what results we'll get. When I ask if I consider it normal that teachers receive less pay than teachers themselves in general education schools, I do not, of course, consider it normal. I think there is also a need for more targeted action. I understand that this is also a question of university autonomy: how they use their resources, but this certainly is not right in the view of the Minister of Education. Surely teachers should receive a more dignified salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U32	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U33	Thank you. Dear Minister, I don't know if you've been misled or what it is. You were happy to read out what previous governments have done, including triple co-financing, etc. But the individual professional research funds have decreased three times this year, almost three times, that my claim is true, at least I still read it on the website of the Estonian Research Council, and some 2 million of which you are talking about are not reflected here. Besides, it's not 2 million, it's 12 million. This is the number of decreases in funding this year. And the grant application process is already underway. Please answer this specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U34	Thank you. I know where the problem is. In the case of research grants, it must be taken into account that they are granted for a period of five years. This means that commitments will be made for a maximum of five financial years when the contract is concluded and that in the current year, research grants can only be issued to the extent that they are not covered by previous commitments. That is where the problem is that the amount of research grants already covered by previous commitments is such that new grants can really be applied for in this amount. That's the problem, the wave between the years is so big. I was talking about the general budget of the research grants of the Ministry of Education and Research. You're talking about what the research agency can issue this year for new grants. This really is smaller, because the rest of the money is already covered by past commitments and these contracts are still ongoing. That is the problem, and the research agency and I are trying to find a solution to this problem so that this wave between the years is not so great. So I totally understand that and I understand this problem. We're trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U35	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U36	Thank you. Thank you very much for your speech and your explanations. I certainly agree that, as the overall volume of research grants has not decreased, the state has not failed to fulfil its promises. But we know that 15% of grant applications were granted in humanities and arts last year, and only 17% in the technical and technological fields that are important to Estonia, for example. Many of these groups have received grants over the years, grants for institutional research grants and grants from the Estonian Research Fund. As a result, these groups have been left without any money. It is not just a matter of small volumes this year, because we have the periodicity of grants. Would it make sense, then, to think at all about the increase in funding for research grants and perhaps the reduction in grants, because, for example, in certain disciplines, smaller grants would give much more access to funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U37	Thank you. Yes, we have asked the research agency to come forward with proposals on how to deal with this situation. We can hardly solve this so that everyone is satisfied, but this situation could be more satisfactory. Indeed, there is dissatisfaction and I understand it because instability is great. At the same time, we also receive quite large sums of money from the European Union, very large sums of money for research and development. We will meet with Minister Andres Sut tomorrow to look at the R &amp; D innovation measures proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the measures proposed by the Ministry of Education and Research to cooperate more. Indeed, it must be very wise to use this money, I fully agree, so that it is as fair as possible in a sectoral way.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U38	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Innovation and the public sector. One idea is that there is no doubt that a strong private sector contribution is also needed. In fact, it has always been said that it is precisely the private sector that should increase significantly. Now we are in a crisis situation where we need to think about how the economy will recover in the future. Does today's coalition also have any understanding of how private money will be included in the future and whether it is projected to be growing or shrinking? The coalition has promised more involvement of private capital in R &amp; D.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U40	Thank you. I very much hope that at some point in the large hall of the Riigikogu you will be able to discuss the R &amp; D, innovation and business development plan and Andres Sutt will be able to speak more about these issues. Really, our science is very high, but the problem is that science is a little bit left alone. There is little breakthrough innovation in our companies. Why has it gone like this? We do not really have a system to support growth in the innovation capacity of companies. This is what we are now trying to improve both the activities of this development plan and the use of European research funds, in order to encourage companies to engage more in development and research, so that companies employ more research advisors, people with a doctorate. For example, a doctoral study of knowledge transfer, which you probably have heard about. One of its objectives is for researchers to work in companies, but also in schools, for example, while at the same time doing science. There are a number of measures to encourage companies to contribute more to R &amp; D. Estonia is currently one of the few Member States of the European Union that contributes 1% of gross domestic product to research and development. Who else are these countries? These are Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Great Britain. In addition, there must certainly be a contribution from the private sector. It's very important. I really sincerely hope to see the real glow in Andres Sut's eyes on this subject, too, that we can do something to ensure that companies value R &amp; D more.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U41	Thank you. I don't see any more questions right now. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. First Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U42	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia has a very good science, and Estonia's Edenus is not the last part of science. This is particularly significant given the limited resources it has made progress. Unfortunately, the Estonian research funding model cannot guarantee sustainable development. The indications suggesting this are alarming. We're going downhill. Estonian society is ageing and, unfortunately, Estonia's scientific community is also ageing. Young people who are capable of research are not as attractive as previous and previous generations, as there are much more attractive challenges in material terms, especially in the private sector and abroad. Post-growth of capable young researchers is a major and responsible challenge. This does not go back to reforming doctoral studies. The core of the problem is that after defending your doctorate, it is very difficult for young people to continue in science. There's a glass ceiling in the front. The chances of continuing a research career are very narrow, in some areas almost non-existent. Measures to ensure that successful young researchers receive a post-doctoral degree from [workplace] are inadequate. It is in the interests of young scientists to make a decisive contribution to both basic research funding and funding for research grants. Start-up grants, and especially group grants, play an important role in creating jobs for young researchers. At present, the success rate of ETAg grant competitions in some areas is constantly below the 20-30% threshold considered reasonable. This situation is unsustainable and could lead to the extinction of entire scientific disciplines in Estonia. However, what will happen next year, when personal research grants are nearly three times less than 6 million compared to 16 million last year, is beyond reason. The minister explained it with a wave and five-year plan. It's an explanation, but we need to think about a way out right now. In the case of minor cuts, we have also witnessed that there will be a disruption in the years when insufficient resources are not found, which will later be very difficult to make up for because young researchers will either leave Estonia or leave science at all. Dear Minister, Science and its funding must not depend on day-to-day policy, even less on party chemisting. This is our common concern, and together we try to find answers to painful questions. The previous government found 56 million in science. It wasn't easy, but it was done. Please, Minister, take the initiative to avoid painful decline in Estonian science. An additional budget is currently underway. If you can't find any other solution, please use it. I'm sure it would only be a temporary solution, but it would give you a breather to find solutions of principle. Please find 12 million and direct them specifically to personal research grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U43	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu allow one question to be asked on this item, I will use my speech to ask another question, a more specific question, or rather a question to answer what Mr Lotman may not have received a good answer to. I didn't get a good answer either, and frankly, I didn't get it. The Estonian Research Council announced that only 6.2 million euros would be allocated to research grants this year, compared to 16 million last year, and your answer was that this was funding for new grants and the reason was that it had to cover earlier commitments and that these were five-year commitments. How is this possible when last year's government decided for the first time to bring funding to 1% of gross domestic product, which meant an additional EUR 56 million per year? It wasn't until last year. How is it possible that, two, three or four years ago, commitments that, now it turns out, are already committed, forward-looking, covered? Was there an open commitment, two or three years ago, commitments that are now funded with additional funding of 56 million? Three times less grant financing this year than in the previous year. I don't think anything fits here. Or has it really been done that, in the past, there have been unexploited commitments from the state budget? The Minister will also have the opportunity to speak in the final word format and to participate in the answer to the question. I really hope so that I can understand that. I didn't exactly understand that calculation and funding right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U45	Thank you. Any more calls? I don't see any more calls. Would the Minister like to speak in the round of negotiations? He does. Please, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U46	I wanted to say that the additional budget should be in the Riigikogu proceedings and that there can be proposals for this. Indeed, this additional budget has been drawn up on the basis that it is very directly linked to mitigating the damage caused by the COVID crisis. With regard to the COVID crisis, I said that we have invested 5.5 million in monitoring research, and that is what the government also needs in the past as well as in the current government. We have already looked at ways to increase funding. However, as far as research grants and basic financing are concerned, I note that, for example, in 2018 the amount of research grants was 40,2 million and now, 2021, it is 46,3 million. In 2018 and 2019 it was 40 million and in 2020 it was 42.3 million. So 2021 is $46.3 million. So the overall base of research grants has increased, but it has not grown very quickly. We are certainly working to ensure that both basic funding and the amount of research grants will increase in the future. Surely we are going to the budget negotiations with this request. I thank you very much for this substantive debate. I brought different ideas from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U47	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The question has been answered and we have closed the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U48	Let's go to the second item. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar, Kalvi Tõvi, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare and Riina Sikkut, on 11 February 2021, for important questions in the field of forestry. The inquiry shall bear number 51. Representative of the heirs, Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, you have the floor to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public. Please, Evgeny!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U49	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce the request made by the Social Democrats to the Minister of the Environment, Tõnis Möldr. It concerns the subject of forestry. This certainly is not the first time we have held this type of debate in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu in the form of an inquiry. I guess this is because the environment ministers have been like ripe apples lately: they are just getting into office when they have already resigned. In the last six months, there is now the third minister. Let us hope that he too will quickly make things clear to himself. The forest is undoubtedly extremely important to the people of Estonia, because we have a very rich state. In a situation where felling activity has significantly intensified over the last decade, the volume of clear cutting in hectares has tripled over the last decade, of course, with it there has also been a significant increase in social tensions, social confrontation with species intensive forest management, it has been expressed in protests against felling of forests close to home, damage to forest birds' habitats, clear cutting in nature conservation areas or, for example, the mass burning of wood that we have all seen in recent times. These tensions are becoming almost everyday. Most Estonian people believe that too much forest is being cut in Estonia. In fact, the majority of eco-nomists agree, who are convinced that the ecological values of forests need to be protected more effectively than before, and that, by putting the interests of forest management at the forefront of the Estonian state in recent decades, there has been serious damage to both biodiversity and the wider diversity of forests and their ecological capacity. Undoubtedly, the global climate crisis and the decisions resulting from the global climate crisis, which have also been taken at European Union level and to which Estonia has joined, have been raised and added as an important additional issue. In fact, in the view of achieving climate neutrality, the forest will undoubtedly play an important role. This role is reflected in the natural carbon sequestration capacity that the forest has. Undoubtedly, it is also important to look at the way in which the Estonian forest and the Estonian forest management can make their positive contribution in order to balance and compensate for the emissions that Estonian society, the Estonian people have in other areas, and so that we do not really do the opposite with certain forest management practices, or do not amplify climate change. Given that nearly half of the forest in Estonia is going into furnaces, i.e. very short-lived products, we know that today's state of forest management in Estonia will increase carbon emissions globally. We're gonna cut down the forest and burn half of it right now. In this context, it is undoubtedly unsustainable, which has already been raised sharply at European Union level in connection with the report by the new European Commission on this subject, but it certainly needs a much more systematic debate in Estonia as well. All of this together tells us whether we need to cut more forest in Estonia, that in the context of the forestry development plan we need to reach a social agreement on limiting deforestation, less intensive forest management. The Ministry of the Environment, who should actually be an environmental defender, is one of the most recent institutions in Estonian society, which, for some reason, takes very clearly the protection of the interests of the timber industry, forest management, more than the protection of ecological interests on this issue. I think it has to change very quickly, we have no other option. Consequently, we have six questions for the Minister for the Environment and we are looking forward to a meaningful and concrete debate on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U50	Thank you. Now I give the floor to Minister of the Environment, Tõnis Möldr, so that he can answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U51	First of all, thank you very much to the whole Group of the Social Democratic Party for raising this important issue, which is undoubtedly forestry. In the introduction, the heir to the account referred to apples. I'm sure apples are also an important product, but not so much in the forest, but rather in the courtyard. First of all, I will answer these eight questions. Let's go to the first one. It is asked specifically to describe the Minister's vision of why the Ministry has not completed the forestry development plan on time and when the draft forestry development plan will arrive at the Riigikogu for approval. It must be acknowledged that, unlike the usual process of drawing up national strategic documents, there has been a significant increase in interest in the forestry development plan. In the first phase, a broad circle of inclusion has been carried out; these discussions have been very diverse and broad-based. Indeed, the aim has also been to reach a social agreement through discussions. Today we see that these discussions have not led to an agreement being reached in society, but these positions have gone from year to year on the whole issue of forestry to polarising rather than adding to society. When the 2018 Forest Development Plan Steering Board was convened, then, I believe, ministers did so in the best of faith, but it must also be acknowledged that this process remained somewhere between 2019 and 2020, when a few quite significant changes took place. First of all, the work of the board of directors did not go according to the plan that maybe was initially predicted and hoped for. Another important obstacle was that, as with all other national strategic documents, a strategic environmental impact assessment was launched in parallel with the launch of the document. However, four public procurements did not identify the strategic evaluation partner and therefore this process was lagging behind the initial timetable in 2020. Today we are pleased to announce that international procurement has managed to find a partner who has started to draw up a strategic environmental impact assessment programme for the forestry development plan. In addition, I sincerely hope that a new governing body will also be approved in the near future, so that the forestry development plan can reach Parliament's proceedings in the second half of 2022. The second question relates precisely to the governing body that my predecessor, Rain Epler, sent out. Here it is also marked that stakeholders concerned on an equal footing will be involved in the preparation of the forestry development plan. As I said, one of the objectives is to put together a new working body for the forestry development plan as a matter of urgency and also to guarantee them a reasonable working peace. I have repeatedly said that, in my view, the governing body for the forestry development plan should include, in particular, our scientists, experts, the best practitioners who are able to assess the forest environment and forest protection correctly. As I have said, I hope that in the coming weeks this decree will be signed and a new one, until the nine-member Forest Development Plan Steering Board is ready. It consists mainly of our scientists-experts; there are representatives of the University of Tartu, the University of Earth University and universities outside Estonia. So it's going to be a leadership body with very strong knowledge. I sincerely hope that they can start their work calmly with the aim of putting together such a development plan, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, which can be handed over to the Government of the Republic and to the Riigikogu in the second half of next year. The third question relates to RMK and to cutting in areas of increased public interest. As I said, RMK must first be commended for the fact that annual talks and social agreements in the management of state forests have been sought precisely in these areas of KAH, i.e. in areas of increased public interest. If I am not mistaken, there were some 167 such public debates last year. I consider it important that RMK should take into account the views of local communities through its involvement and, very clearly, be able to reach such long agreements between the various parties. As a minister, I have managed to participate in the process of involving local residents in KAH areas, which was the case for the Häädemeeste. I know that several members of the Riigikogu also participated in this. I am pleased that the cooperation between RMK, the local community and local government reached an agreement for the next five years, that there will really be no logging in the region, and that in the following periods, it will be analysed what forest management activities could be in these areas as a whole. Question 4: "Why has RMK still not made public all the data on DHS? " It must be acknowledged that RMK has published on its website as of 15 January 2021 the data where it plans forest management work this year. As I said, there have been a few hundred discussions in all previous years, and also this year, these discussions are being held, which volume of felling or what kind of economic activity RMK is planning in KAH areas. They're in the first half of the year. Once these social agreements are reached, the management of KAH areas will remain in the second half of the year. Question 5: "What do you think about logging in forest habitats in the Habitats Directive, which according to the Environmental Agency has in recent years been worse because of logging? " Deforestation activities in protected areas are strictly regulated and can only take place on the basis of a deliberate approval decision of the Environmental Board. Each protected area has its own specific rules because of the need to protect the habitat and the species that live there. It is important to review the rules for the protection of all protected areas, and that is what we do on a regular basis. We are moving forward, bearing in mind this proportion, so that all valuable protected areas are protected as far as possible. We are also talking about the best way to ensure natural development in the protection of forest habitats is that protected areas are zoned in two: one is a targeted protection zone and the other is a restricted zone in parallel with this target protection zone. The economic activity in the target protection zone is virtually non-existent and, in certain cases, it is permitted in the restricted zone by a lighter regime. It is important to note that many of the areas in both the target zone and the restricted zone are not only parcels belonging to RMK, i.e. pieces owned by the State, but also lots of land owned by private forest owners. A certain balance must be struck between nature conservation and the interests of private owners. I consider it important that these species of animals and species of birds, for which we have agreed under the Nature Conservation Act, that we want to protect their interests and that, in order to protect them, we have imposed these restrictions, must be protected everywhere, both in private forests and in state forests. But once again, a reasonable balance must be found here. As an important fact, we need to mark here that about 75000 hectares of forest have been subjected to additional strict protection over the last few years. Question 6: Do you agree with the timber industry that the old forest is a socially harmful element... " I answer that I'm not. I think that forests of all ages offer a wide range of values to ecosystems, all over forest land. It is important that we have different ages and different types of forests. Forests that differ in age and species also offer a wider range of possible diversity of ecosystems, including precisely for the different stages of forest development. This is important in order to preserve the diversity and re-production of our forests. The importance of older forests is also reflected in the current Forest Act, where we have agreed on the minimum age of renovation cutting, so that we have clearly defined what the old forest is, what the young forest is and how we manage these forests. The seventh question, which is certainly important, is: "When will the statistical forest inventory (SMI) data become available to all experts so that researchers can independently verify the environmental agency's calculations and future forestry scenarios? " It is important to mark here that the results of the statistical forest inventory are available to all as open data. The basic data, with the exception of the only pointing out once again: only the coordinates of the round plots are not public. The remaining data are public and can be retrieved from the Environmental Agency by all interested parties. There is also a reference to the fact that these universities and scientists who have asked for these open data have received them. It is important to note why we do not disclose the coordinates of these plots. The objective of the non-disclosure of the plot is to avoid the dependence of forest owner and manager's forest management decisions on the location of those plots of statistical forest inventory. I think that, in Europe as a whole, such a single network and the production of statistics on a uniform basis, and the maintenance of these data on the same basis, are reasonable and justified in every way. One of the important changes in this matter is known to be in Parliament's proceedings. So this debate is ahead of Parliament. The last question, or eighth, is: "Estonia, together with other EU countries, has set a goal of climate neutrality. Will cutting logging volumes increase the carbon stock of Estonian forests in 2050? " Deforestation will certainly allow forest resources to grow temporarily. Here, of course, we need to monitor this period of balance, that forests become carbon neutral in the long term when they age, because wood decay and carbon emissions will also occur in quantities equivalent to binding. So we must certainly have balanced forests, old forests and young forests of medium age. I think this is very important in terms of diversity and long-term goals. It is also important to mark out that it is important to set longer perspectives than one or two, or why not in a five or ten-year perspective, in the cultivation and management of forests. We must have clearer, more specific, agreed limits on how we protect the forest, how we preserve the forest, but also on what conditions we manage the forest. It is therefore very important that our forestry development plan meets all the criteria set and, in its entirety, also looks at the picture that we have agreed in the European Union in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U52	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U53	Thank you, good minister! Good Chairman of the Riigikogu, in the work of strength and strength, the first day is on your desk today! But, Minister, that's the question. A few days ago, Postimees wrote that RMK intended to cut down people's beloved forests on Kubija and Kiidjärv. That's because these woods are felled. Good minister, give me a hand, think with me. Why the hell would RMK do that? He knows how much pressure people have to do to keep these forests, because they are community forests, very much needed. Or is it rather that RMK is trying to complete the plan for cutting volumes set by the Ministry because it needs to be completed and even such forests must be cut down to achieve this plan? That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U54	Thank you for that question. Well, first, let's think about it for a second. As I said, I would first like to congratulate RMK on transparency, because when economic activity is planned in KAH areas, it is done in cooperation with the community, in cooperation with the local government. As I said, there was 163 public debates last year. They gave more critical feedback because the local community was not satisfied with RMK's plans in these KAH areas, five or six. In these five or six places, in place, a broader consensus must be reached, an agreement must be reached with the local community. Of course, it is important that RMK takes this into account: for all economic activities, whether they are in KAH or in the economic forest, all the activities that are taking place there must be balanced with conservation, it must be sustainable, and it must still meet all the criteria that we, as a country, have set out for RMK. Your claim that we, as a country, have somehow raised expectations to the level that RMK is forced to manage in forests with emotionally [essential] and naturally strong values for such people to meet its economic performance is not correct. I think that RMK will have the opportunity to find consensus between the various parties and between the different types of forest management. A slightly more holistic approach is needed here; perhaps this has not been achieved during my term of office. But this is certainly an important issue: achieving a social agreement on what these KAH areas as a whole are and how we can manage them better as a whole. I would like to continue to stress that it must certainly be important for RMK that when it manages these KAH areas, the keyword "sustainable" is important for management. We do not want these valuable forests to fall apart, we want these forests to be sustainable. A longer balance must be found here on this whole issue of forest management. But once again, there is no economic pressure on them that they should certainly manage in forests of emotionally high value for people. As you well know, because I think that you have certainly read the coalition agreement, the coalition agreement also has the keyword that we will once again review RMK's dividend policy precisely from the point of view of reducing this pressure on forest management from year to year.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U55	Dear Kalvi Tough, I also thank you for your good word on my behalf. Thank you. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U56	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would also like to ask the same question. Last week, RMK sent out reports about dozens of valuable recreation forests located across Estonia, where logging is planned. I also received a letter as a member of the local community concerning the planned cutting in Otepää rural municipality near the Tartu marathon track. You said that the aim is, in any case, to reach consensus with the local community. How will this consensus be achieved? Unfortunately, the thing is that only 21 days have been left to the community to make proposals, until 7 April, which does not really allow for any long debate, cannot properly light up this issue. Secondly, it is actually not possible to put forward proposals concerning whether to cut and what methods to cut. Do you think it is normal for this attitude to be taken by the local community, which in fact leaves them no decision-making power over the most important issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U57	Thank you, Mr Kaalep, for this question. As I said, the inclusion process must not be apparent, but must be a real inclusion process and must take into account the ideas and ideas of the local community, local government. And, as you yourself said very clearly, this must be a community compromise: a compromise between RMK's activities, from the point of view of forest management and the expectations of local and local authorities. I agree with you on this point that, of course, as I said to the previous questioner, we need to look at the overall economic activity that we are allowing in these KAH areas at all, the felling method we are using and at what time interval we are using it. Once again, when RMK sent out a large number of such messages last week, the only aim of sending them was to involve the community once again in order to show that RMK is planning economic activity in these forest areas. The question is whether this economic activity is always justified. Once again, this economic activity must be based primarily on balanced forest management, sustainability, nature conservation, but also on the fact that for people it is an emotionally and naturally important forest and it does not always have to be managed. As I said, I have had the opportunity to take part in a debate on the KAH area in a short ministerial period. I think it was a very concise and good debate. A certain agreement was reached with the local government and local community on this issue, and RMK also fulfilled that agreement. So RMK will definitely monitor people's expectations here and act accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U58	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U59	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As I understand from your reply, what concerns statistics and the availability of statistics, i.e. that all the raw data are reliably in the hands of all parties, has been resolved. It has in itself been quite disturbing that it has been contested. My first education is the education of a wood technologist and it is clear that I have two feelings for the whole subject. Tell me this: when you talk about KAH areas, are there any options in which, for example, the state forest is rented out to the community so that communities can manage themselves and do the cutting as the community thinks it is right?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U60	First of all, I'm coming up with their statistical forest inventory data. As I pointed out, the subject of the dispute has so far been only the coordinates of the plots. I explained in my reply in advance why we do not disclose these coordinates. But the rest of the opening data has been available to everyone. If researchers need other statistical data, they usually contact the Environmental Agency with a request for information, the request for information is answered and, except once again, the coordinates of the plots are made public. I explained why we do not disclose the coordinates of the plots: in order to avoid the dependence of forest owners and forest management decisions on those plots. A situation may arise where the forest land on these plots is intentionally being manipulated and a certain bias may also arise in the statistical data. So once again: it is also under discussion in Parliament, and I hope that we will achieve some kind of consensus here. Your second question had to do with whether these KAH areas could be rented out to forest communities or somehow managed. Here are two important keywords. First and foremost, we offer local authorities the possibility to impose conservation restrictions in this forest. The local government is undoubtedly the body that represents the local interests as a result of a mandate from the people. Should the local government not want to manage this forest itself and there are no agreements with RMK, it is certainly possible, after certain discussions, to introduce these parcels to non-profit organisations. There are certain regulations, certain processes for giving use to the earth. Once again, I say that it is primarily the desire to hand them over to the local government, and if the local government does not want it, we can talk about non-profit organisations in the third sector, but we need to understand very clearly which non-profit institutions they are, how long-term they are. It is not just forest management that lasts one year, it is a long process, it is a responsible process, it can last tens and tens of years. It is therefore important that if we entrust a forest or plot of land to anyone, this partner would certainly also have a clear eye and a strong organisational culture. So, I'm sure local governments are the first preference, but on other occasions, you can discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U61	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Have you assessed the impact of disinformation on forestry documents, which in many ways is the basis for or the root cause of community disapproval? I am talking here specifically about the Forest Communication, which must be completed before cutting down trees on some lang, and where the estimated volume of felling should be indicated. On this basis, people in the community, neighbors, appreciate it and set their minds on these degradable trees. When cutting after the harvesting process is carried out, trees are still cut according to their perfection, which may not coincide at all with the estimated volume of felling indicated in the forest notice and may be significantly larger than this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U63	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U64	That's when you get really, really mad afterwards. I've already asked the question. Have you analysed the impact of such disinformation in such public documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U65	Got it. Thank you, Mr. Jaanson. Please, Minister, respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U66	Thank you for that question. The first answer is certainly that no such long and thorough analysis has been carried out. In this short period of time, it has simply not been possible to solve all the problems in the forestry sector. I am aware of the problem of the Waste Communication and its so-called reality and has been highlighted by so many other parties. We must look at this whole issue. Clearly, the expectation of a person who looks at the logging notification and the subsequent forest management process must be balanced. There must be no bad surprises here as a whole. I would like to emphasise once again that these descriptions and this forest activity, as a whole, still have to collide with each other. I understand that at certain moments people may experience difficult situations and emotions. They must be analysed and improved over time at the legislative level or in other practices, so that people's expectations of forest management and reality coincide.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U67	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In answer to Mr Tough question, you expressed the hope that we have read the coalition agreement. Yes, we have. The coalition agreement states, among other things, that the government reduces the pressure of logging on the state forest. However, if you look at the action programme there, the implementation of this specific objective is only planned by February 2023. This means that there are two more years to go and [it ends] exactly one month before the end of the current government mandate. This, of course, leads to the conclusion that the government does not really intend to reduce the cutting capacity of RMK. Why, then, Minister, do you hope in vain among environmental friends that you want to defend the forests?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U69	Thank you. Mr Odines, you are a relatively new Member. I suggest that you take on the whole coalition agreement with a good colleague, Kalvi Hardy. If you want, call on me to help, we will read these points together, and we will understand more clearly what something behind this sentence means and what actions will be followed by both the Government of the Republic and Parliament. Once again: as I emphasised, there is indeed a point in the coalition agreement that says that the state will reduce the pressure on RMK in forest management and one of its methods could indeed be that we will also reduce the dividend expectations for RMK. RMK has several economic activities, not only economic activities related to logging, but also other activities. So here we have to find this reasonable balance. But once again, expectations in society are very clearly different. I understand what you referred to. Your keyword was that it was planned for 2023. I think that the first place that RMK's economic activity figures will be reviewed is this year's country's budgetary strategy, which sets out a longer-term budgetary strategy for 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025. There, these incomes related to forest management, as well as expectations of RMK about the dividend, must be reviewed. So once again, I am ready to review these thoughts together. As far as our expectations of managed or protected forests are concerned, this could still be the case as a whole and as a social agreement in the forestry development plan for 2030.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U70	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tõnis Mölder! Indeed, we do not have a forestry development plan, but the social debate has also led to judicial intervention. We know that the Forest Communication or its issuing is equivalent to an administrative act. A few days ago, the Tallinn Administrative Court ruled that the methodology in force since 2004 by which the state acquires land subject to conservation restrictions from private forest owners is unconstitutional and does not sufficiently protect the interests of owners. There are always two sides: there is a need to protect nature, there is a public purse, but a balance must be struck between man and the state in order to have a common sense. Is there any important steps to be taken here, or are you still waiting for a court ruling to explain it in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U72	Thank you. First of all, it concerns a specific decision. It certainly needs to be analysed in more detail and it is a little early today to respond to that. By the end of the evening, the so-called waterproofness criterion of laws is still if there are, in a sense, court settlements and we can finally find out. This does not always mean that for every bill we should always go to the Supreme Court and then say whether Parliament has done its job well or not. Well, it's kind of a place of balance, isn't it? As a member of the Committee on the Environment, you may have noticed that I have stressed on several occasions, both in the Committee on the Environment and in other debates, that we need to find a certain balance with private forest owners, a consensus that we have agreed socially that we have certain species of birds and animals that we protect and whether they are state forests or private forests. Clearly, this introduction of protection restrictions also severely restricts economic activity in private forests. However, there is a need to find and revise a reasonable mechanism here so that we can pay private forest owners a higher rate of support or compensation per hectare. After all, compensation is certainly not based on the whole of forest management, but on such a mildly palliative measure. This will require additional resources. The second option certainly, which the state uses from time to time, is to dispose of this piece of land as a conservational object in the state's property. Here again is the same court settlement you referred to. Here too, we must negotiate and perhaps review the solution as a whole. This, of course, also requires greater financial resources from the state, so that if we include plots of land in the nature conservation value, we have the opportunity each year to dispose of land in the same amount, whether or not necessarily always, but perhaps at some point in time, of some land in the state's possession. The third option is what I have talked about many times. If there is a desire to hold a public debate, there is certainly one way of exchanging land with private forest owners: the state will provide a piece of forest for a piece of forest and a piece of forest that is of nature conservation value, the state will take its own balance sheet. The exchange of land has been practiced in history, and this method certainly has its advantages and its disadvantages. If there is a desire to hold a debate, we can hold it once more on land-exchange issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U73	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I wish you, Tõnis, strength and strength and peace in solving these important issues and finding the best solutions. I ask you to mark the period during which this successful strategic environmental impact assessment was finally carried out. Because, really, in my time we failed four times and then finally got an international call. Please, mark the listeners-viewers, be good, the time when the successful procurement was finally completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U75	Thank you. First of all, I would like to start by thanking you, René, for the time spent and the work done at the Ministry of the Environment. Like I said, I think you did this job in good faith, with good hearts and with good goals. So once again, thank you very much for the work you've done! Coming to your particular question, I understand what you're referring to. I believe that the partner for the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) was sought from the end of 2019. It was indeed sought four times, and the start date of this international procurement or the start date of the search is, in my opinion, your period of government, autumn 2020. It was certainly not during my ministry that I now came up with this idea. That's the idea you started in your day, the idea of finding a firm partner through international procurement. It is simply a matter of admitting that the change of ministers and the problems associated with them, including the time of taking up and leaving office, the time when the governing body was dissolved, has slowed down this whole process. There is nothing to be done, it must be acknowledged that this one procurement or finding a strategic partner has not been the main reason why the forestry development plan has stuck. I think he's stuck in a lot of ways because we couldn't keep a good and reasonable working peace in the leadership at the time. I think that the opinions of the members of the Steering Board were very different and that no points of agreement were reached there. There are quite a few parties here, including various ministers, from Siim Valmar Kiisler and ending up with me, but there are some ministers left in the meantime. So this process has been long enough and it has been written, but I think that our common goal, regardless of political power and background, is still that the development plan be completed one day. We could hand it over to Parliament, and then Parliament could, on the basis of the worldview of each group, hold this debate, which nature conservation and management method of the Estonian forest is best for the next ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U76	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U77	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Replying to the Kalvi Hardy KAH areas, you said that forests are falling apart, but the forests must be sustainable. It reflects the idea that the forest can get bad, that if man does not intervene or manage the forest, it is as if the forest cannot serve the purpose of biodiversity or is of little importance. That a forest can become bad for a chopper, or if you cut too old a forest, you can't make the same profit as when you chop it at the right time. With regard to the objectives set for achieving carbon neutrality, it can be argued whether carbon has to be tied to the forest or whether the forest has to bind it on a rolling basis, there may be a question, but the old forest is not a bad forest. We have about 5% of the old forests. How can they be better protected?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U78	Thank you. I'm going to go over that sentence first. My idea was to maintain the forest, any forest. A well-maintained forest is most important in a long-term strategic view. I think that then forest management is balanced, our forests are sustainable and, if necessary, managed. Once again: managed if necessary. So in this sense, the forest must be maintained. Maintaining the forest does not always mean that we have to do cuttings and very large volumes. No, it's not the maintenance of the forest, the maintenance of the forest is different. But coming to the old forests, as I said in my reply to you when you asked me if I agree with the statement you raised on your question that the old forest is a socially harmful element: it is not. No, it's not. In my view, the importance of old forests is also reflected in what we have socially agreed on in our forest law: which forest we consider to be mature, which forest we consider to be young. They are not laid down for anyone on the surface of personal feelings, but we have put these social agreements into law. I think it's important. Once again, I said that forests of all ages offer a wide range of benefits. This means that ecosystems are balanced. We need young forests, we need old forests, and we need them everywhere to preserve the biodiversity and balance of our forests. Sustainable and long management.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U79	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U80	Good manager! Good minister! I think you agree with me that it should be possible to solve this TSD thing relatively quickly, perhaps even before Midsummer Day. I don't see a lot of obstacles here because the scenery's kind of ripe. But you spoke today in the Committee on the Environment about the priorities of the new budget and did not fail to say what concerns private forest owners and compensation for loss of income, including in VEP areas. So what's the sum that's going to be on this row? The rest had these numbers: 23 million environmental houses and 5 million for radioactive waste. How big is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U81	Thank you, good Peter! I think you and I are quite close to our opinions on this issue. I think we need to first define what our expectations as a society for these KAH areas are and which areas we consider to be KAH areas and which ones we do not. I see that this understanding of KAH areas often breaks up a little in the view of interest groups, local residents and RMK. If we achieve a common part here, we can also agree whether we manage these KAH areas, how we manage them and what specific perspective. With regard to the country's budgetary strategy and the requests made there, first of all, I thank the Committee on the Environment for having had the opportunity to present it briefly. I hope that this introduction will continue on 5 or 6 April, when the Riigikogu once again gathers to do its usual work. Then we can also discuss these issues more specifically. But in answer to your question: I am saying this by heart, but I assume that I am not mistaken that the total amount we applied for in the country's budget strategy over four to five years was about 5 million. In this budget, I think there is some EUR 300000 for VEPs, and we wanted to increase that amount. But this 5 million isn't for one year, it's all for several years. As I said, there are these subsidies on a per hectare basis, but also that side, which concerns the transfer of forest land to the advantage of the State, if there are nature-protecting objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U82	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! According to the Chancellor of Justice, according to the Forest Act, the Minister of the Environment may limit logging for the protection of fauna and birds during the breeding season in stands and mixed stands with several fronts, from 15 April to 15 June. Unfortunately, the Minister for the Environment has still not made use of the opportunity provided by law or imposed cutting restrictions by means of a regulation. My question to you is: as Minister for the Environment, do you intend to exercise your rights... to protect birds and animals?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U84	I'm sorry, Heljo Pikhof, the end of the question somehow disappeared. Did the minister hear that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U85	I'm trying to answer as much as I heard. I actually understood the question, there was a reference to the letter of formal notice from the Chancellor of Justice, which he replied to an NGO or organisation. First of all, I would like to say that yes, your reference was correct, Mrs Pikhof, no Minister for the Environment has taken this opportunity under the Forest Act. There are quite a few reasons. In your question, you also referred to the fact that the restriction imposed by the Forest Act applies only to several fronts and mixed stands; it does not apply to all types of forest, and this cutting peace would not be complete in this sense. I certainly want to stress, particularly to all forest owners, including all of us through RMK, that the Nature Conservation Act already allows and asks, and actually obliges once again, the forest keeper and the forest manager, perhaps, to comply with the Nature Conservation Act. The deliberate destruction and damage to the nests and eggs shall not take place. We clearly know that during the breeding season between mid-March and mid-July, depending on the species of birds and the specific nature of their nesting, deliberate disturbance, especially during the breeding season, is already prohibited by the Nature Conservation Act. So once again: the deliberate destruction and deliberate disturbance of nests and eggs during the breeding season is already regulated in the Nature Conservation Act and on this basis we always follow. There are two aspects that I would like to bring in. One thing is that the State Forest Management Centre always highlights the view that as our State Forest Management Centre, we show an example and we generally stop our economic activities in the state forest from 15 April to 15 June. I also know that very many private forest owners, precisely on the basis of the Nature Conservation Act, also stop economic activity. I very much commend them. I also congratulate those who follow it, without the law being clearly and specifically forcing them to do so (I emphasise the word'sun'). But I call on the forest owners, too, to do so, who do not abide by it and yet try to go to such a grey area somehow. I continue to stress that the Nature Conservation Act makes it very clear on which occasions we need to restrict forest management in the forest, and this is precisely the breeding season. In addition, in April or at least in the coming weeks, the Government of the Republic is scheduled to pass on a bill on the nature conservation issue, which specifically concerns the harvesting of birds in the coming years. I think it needs a bit of a broader social agreement between ornithologists, private forest owners and the state. This debate, I hope, will reach Parliament in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U86	Heljo Pikhof, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U87	As I understand it, the Minister did not hear my question. Do you intend to exercise your rights as minister and protect birds and animals this year? We are talking about exactly what the Chancellor of Justice has stated that the Minister of the Environment may, according to the Forest Act, limit logging for the protection of fauna and birds during the breeding season. I asked what you were going to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U88	Thank you. A mike for the minister, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U89	Thank you. I have already answered this question once, but if the President of the Riigikogu asks me to answer it again, I can answer it again. I said that the Nature Conservation Act very clearly delineates what can and will not stop these activities, suggesting that if human economic activity deliberately disrupts the peace of the birds during the nesting period and results in the deliberate destruction of the nests and eggs, it is not permitted by law and there is no need for further extra restrictions. However, it is precisely this side that we want to review over the next few years, so that it is even clearer and more specific. This provision of the Forest Act, to which you referred, as you mentioned very nicely in your question several times, is not perfect and there are certain shortcomings. So once again, I suggest you look at this picture as a whole. I sincerely hope that the calls I made here and that you did on your own question will be followed by private forest owners. RMK is certainly the source of these.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U90	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U91	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. I partly already got my question answered. I want to thank you very much for the two words you used, these are "reasonable balance." Forestists, including nature funds and ecologists, want more and more money to finance their activities. Ernst & Young has pointed out in its socio-economic analysis that the processing of 1 million cubic metres of wood generates EUR 150 million of added value. In south-eastern Estonia, more than 20% of people are also dependent on forest management and forest management. We always put ourselves in a position like this, that money comes out of the wall, and we're on the side of the wall where the money is distributed. But we should also think about where that money comes from in that wall. That's my question. Are socio-economic analyses prior to forest decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U92	Thank you. I understand where you have addressed your question as a whole. I think we have held this debate both in committees and in Question Time. Yes, such a comprehensive overall socio-economic analysis, which is precisely about restricting economic activity in the forest and, as a result, the overall impact of economic damage on the forest owner or on the Estonian economy as a whole, it has not been done, as far as I know, how much one restriction affects our economic activity as a whole. As I said, a reasonable balance must be found here. After all, we understand that the owner of a private forest, I would like to emphasise once again, also wants to manage his forest in a sensible, sustainable and sustainable way. All three components are very important. But the other way around, we also have made certain social agreements in the area of nature conservation. It is very reasonable that we seriously protect and protect those animal species that need protection in Estonia, regardless of whether it is a state forest or a private forest. Once again: in my opinion also for the forestry development plan, including the strategic environmental impact assessment process, we are planning to commission a socio-economic impact assessment in addition to the usual impact analysis. It should also indicate how much it makes sense to protect the forest in Estonia, how much it makes sense to manage the forest in Estonia and for what purposes this forest should be managed, so that we have very clear-cut dimensions behind each decision. That if we take so much protection, what it will do for our economy, and if we manage so much forest, what are the consequences from the point of view of conservation? It makes sense to find a sustainable balance here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U93	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I ask a very simple question, without any paragraphs. You're the Minister of the Environment, I'm sure you have a position. But I haven't been able to understand this position so far, that's why I'm asking. Do you think that there is too much or too little logging in Estonia or that it is now? In which direction would you like to move with the Estonian forestry policy as a result of your understanding of whether the forest is being cut too much or too little in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U95	Thank you, Mr. Indrek Saar. I think that there are no simple, simple and concrete answers in all forestry policy. Every answer has its own shade, its own color, and these shades and colors must also be "tryed to explain." Your question was whether a lot of forest is being managed in Estonia or whether the volume of management should be increased over time. I certainly do not think that it makes sense to increase this volume of management over the years, because in the long term, the sustainability and sustainability of our forests will not be guaranteed if we continue to do so. We need to monitor the state of maturity of the forest and manage it accordingly. But forest management of this size, like perhaps in the last two and a half years, has also taken place in the previous period, I think, is unsustainable given the long-term perspective of the Estonian forest. So certain steps should be taken towards more rational forest management. However, it should be taken into account that if we can restrict forest management in the state forest through the State Forest Management Centre, these management restrictions in the private forest will require a larger and wider social agreement. I sincerely hope that this socio-economic analysis, to which the questioner referred, as well as other conservation objectives and economic activities in our forests, will be put together in the forestry development plan, which should be completed in the second half of next year. It says this social agreement, how we see how much we protect the forest in Estonia, how we protect it, how we manage the forest in Estonia and on what basis we manage it.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U96	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U97	Thank you. Dear Minister, I did not quite understand your answer to our eighth question on carbon sequestration in the context of achieving climate neutrality. We know that in a very long period, a forest generation planted in its place will be able to reconnect the carbon that comes with cutting, but in the very long run. We do not have such a long-term perspective in resolving the climate crisis. By 2050 we have set this climate-neutrality target and according to the new Environmental Ministry's assessment, the LULUCF sector will actually become a net issuer from 2031 onwards, with the forest's own binding potential being doubled. Consequently, I will use the word for which you have been praised: do you think it makes sense that we can get there by chopping wood in Estonia, that its [carbon] bonding capacity will be reduced twice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U98	Thank you. Just as in this answer to your question, which I think was the eighth, I think it is very important that, if we are planning forest management in Estonia, we also rely on the climatic goals that we have adopted as a country. I am thinking here of the European Union's ambition to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. This view, I would like to emphasise once again, in terms of forest management and also in terms of carbon sequestration, must be clearer and longer than what is being done here in the context of a few years. It's supposed to be a tens and tens of years view. I hope that the forestry development plan is precisely the document that gives such a clearer and longer-term view of the whole forest management policy and forest protection policy, and which also takes into account the targets set, in order indeed to achieve a reduction in the carbon footprint and climate neutrality in Estonia by 2050. What is important, and what must be borne in mind in this regard? Yes, you said very rightly, this process is very long. However, this process also takes place in terms of carbon sequestration. Older forests start to emit carbon in the process of decay. A reasonable balance must be found here between young forests, old forests and medium-ripe forests. This balance should be as rationally distributed as possible so that we can meet the criteria for nature conservation and forest management in the same way and coincide with the longer objectives we set out.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U99	Thank you. Peter Ernits, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U100	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U101	Unfortunately, at the time of the inquiry, one question can be asked, that is what you have asked. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U102	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is very nice to hear the forestry debate here. I very much liked your answer to Mr Indrek Saare's question. That's why I asked myself a question. We see that, in the medium term, there is still some need to reduce felling pressure, especially on the state forest. At the same time, we know that the state forest is also an important resource for producers. How, then, can we ensure that this resource really does not go into "burning" of little value, but, for example, in furniture or wooden architecture, this carbon is long-term and more added value generated? Any thoughts on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U103	Thank you to the Chair of the Committee on the Environment for this good question. I think we need to look at the whole picture here. In agreement, if we are using forest management for the purpose of forest management, our aim should be that we provide as much added value as possible to this timber from the forest here in Estonia and that would create more added value for our economic environment and economy as a whole. This is definitely one of the most important places. One major prerequisite of this is, of course, how we manage the forest. That's one thing. But the other thing is what the total value of our forest is. Perhaps the question is what kind of forest will we plant in the future and now. It'll give us a lot of results in what kind of forest we're gonna get, I don't know, in 80 or 100 years, and what value we're gonna get out of this forest. I continue to think so, and I believe that many of the smarter people in the economy also agree with me that if the value added on the spot and the [product] is exported or used for the Estonian internal market, it will also be done if it is possible to create value added on the spot in Estonia, I will say it again. But this wood, low-value wood, which cannot easily be valued with added value, yes, there are different alternatives to the way it is used in Estonia. If there are economically better and more efficient methods, they must certainly be discussed. But once again, we have to look at our forest management as a whole. Our goal should still be that if we manage this natural resource, as the forest undoubtedly is, the added value should still remain to the maximum extent for the benefit of Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U104	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U105	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your answers. I was a little unclear about what you said to Mr Riina Sikkut. He pointed out that we have these 100+-year-old forests of 5 to 6%. Are there any measures that you have said that every forest needs maintenance, and I am very much in your mind to old forests that are undoubtedly a very large treasure store in terms of species diversity? Is there anything like that? You're talking about a long plan, and it makes sense, it's a very long way to go, but are there any specific ideas on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U106	As far as forest management is concerned, we have also agreed on how we manage old forests of value to us. As I said, these are mostly forests that are partially protected. Protected forests and their management are very clearly and strictly defined through the Environmental Board. As far as our parents are concerned about forests that we have not taken direct protection, there is also a very clear definition of how we can or should manage these forests. It is important to mark that the area of forest we take from year to year as a conservation value in the balance sheet is increasing, after all, and it is still increasing very clearly and strongly. This also means that, with this restriction, we are severely restricting the management of this forest as well. So here this whole view exists and the balance sheet is rather positive. We're gonna take more forest into conservation than we're gonna give it away from the conservation balance. It is important to emphasise, of course, that we must look at it as a whole and we must understand how much forest we are taking down nature conservation and whether it is always justified and necessary to take down nature conservation. I think most of the times it is. The question then is that it is necessary to reach this social agreement, how much forest we manage, because there is also a certain degree of social expectation of forest management. And this demand, which has arisen, will not disappear overnight, and as Merry Aart pointed out in his question, it will also have a socio-economic impact. But keeping and valuing old forests, I think it will always be better, but the fact that we are on the positive side of this balance sheet is very important and commendable.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U107	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. I will open negotiations and give the floor to Mr Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U108	Thank you. I'd like three more minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U109	Please! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, We doubtless thank the Minister for these answers. Some factual clarification could undoubtedly have been overlooked by the Minister. However, as far as statistical forest inventory data are concerned, this statement that they have always been available to everyone is not correct. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu has identified this as being open data, but in fact Estonian scientists have not been able to access them freely. Now there is hope for this, and there will be discussions on it. But in general, the minister is undoubtedly still getting into this subject. We heard a lot of beautiful sentences that, as a whole, didn't always have meaning. It cannot be that we simply say that an old forest is valuable and, at the same time, a young forest is a good thing that forest dwellers need to be protected, but at the same time it is necessary to protect the owner of the forest and that there is an emission in forest management, but on the other hand there is also the binding of [carbon]. These arguments are all true in principle, but the task and aim of the Ministry of the Environment is to find this balance, to find a clear vision and to formulate it in these matters, which are often conflicting, because the interests here are contradictory to ecological interests, social interests, economic interests. It cannot simply be said that a reasonable balance must be found, although the minister here was praised by a member of the Riigikogu for it, because what is reasonable depends on what is the concept of reality, the understanding of where we are today. It is undoubtedly important to understand and take into account the facts that are apparent in the context of forest management when making these decisions. Firstly, carbon sequestration, in the context of climate neutrality, is an undoubtedly very important issue. Our forest bonding capacity is about 3 million tonnes of carbon equivalent per year, which is a quarter of the last year's carbon emission. So we can completely neutralize Estonian society's greenhouse gases with our forests. Since we have a lot of forest, this potential is actually very high. The analysis commissioned by the Ministry of the Environment itself on Forests and Climate Change shows that, in a hypothetical situation where we do not carry out cuttings at all, hundreds of millions of tons could actually be added to forests in the next few decades. So there is a way to achieve climate neutrality, in principle, to use forest management, then forests remain standing, ecological and social value is growing, and, on the other hand, we also contribute to climate neutrality. What do we really do? In fact, we are doing that half of Estonia's forest goes into the oven. It does not go to the wooden architecture, as the Chairwoman of the Committee on the Environment said, into many other durable products, but goes directly to the furnace and, of course, it does not solve the environmental or climate problem, but vice versa. As the recent European Commission report has shown us very nicely, the production of bioenergy in the forest, such as that in the European Union, and which is also subsidised, actually reduces the carbon stock of the forest and, at the same time, also has a negative impact on biodiversity. So here, obviously, changes are needed both at the level of Estonia and at the level of the European Union. The government regrettably did not support the Social Democrats' proposal to review, for example, the bio-efficiency criterion in the Renewable Energy Directive, which would have had an impact here. The government has not yet withdrawn the proposal for mass burning of wood at Narva plants, which is just as hostile to the environment, insane. The second question concerns biodiversity and ecology in general. We know that Estonia's intensive forest management has led to less and less old forest, 100+ years old forest, as has been said, has been 5 to 6%. At the same time, there is a very large part of the biodiversity of Estonian forests. Our rulebook doesn't really protect these forests. The Forest Act regulates cuttings only through cutting age and chest diameter. It is not possible for the Minister for the Environment to simply say that yes, at the same time, both young and old forests are good. As of today, we are moving towards a 100+ year old forest that is getting smaller and smaller. It has a very important negative impact on species diversity and must be stopped, these forests must be more protected in order to achieve this. This clearly and unambiguously follows what most economists and the majority of the Estonian population think: too many forests are cut down in Estonia and cutting volumes should be summed up. This would, of course, reduce the pressure of felling on forests close to home, which are so dear to people, because, according to the environmental minister's order, RMK will have to cut its felling volumes, where it will eventually have to go elsewhere if not to the forests close to home. So cutting volumes need to be reduced. In this context, we must, of course, also assess the issue of forest management, the extent to which forest management has a socio-economic impact. There is no doubt that forest management will continue to be important. But we need to understand that once we have achieved climate neutrality, biodiversity, ecological and community values, there will be a room where we will discuss how and to what extent forest management takes place. It's possible. This same added value can be guaranteed even if we do not burn half of our forest. We drive half our forest into the oven and its added value is terribly low. In this context, reducing the volume of logging, which would increase carbon sequestration in forests and have a positive impact on biodiversity and ecological values, would not in fact lead to a reduction in the overall contribution of forest management to the Estonian economy and Estonian exports. Some individual companies that have built their business model on bioenergy should perhaps review the business model. But as a whole, it can be achieved. But in order for us to reach, in essence, these discussions and decisions in these areas, we must adequately and clearly state what the scientific realities are, which are our ecological situation, which are the decisions that the country makes to protect ecological values, and then, of course, in this context, we must also reach out to what is the economic model that fits into it. But not the other way around, we start with forest management: let's say that since there's a lot of people working there and there's a lot of money, then, uh, what about these old forests and beasts of the forest, let's take the forest down. I'm sure it's not adequate. We would like the Minister to go beyond the points of industry in his views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U111	We have exhausted this item and are going to today's third... I'm sorry! However, the Minister for the Environment would like a word at the end of the previous paragraph. Please, Tõnis Mölder!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U112	Thank you. Yeah, I'd like a final word. I understand I have a chance. To begin with, I would like to thank all the members of the Riigikogu for this question and for this debate. I think, speaking of forestry and forestry policy in Estonia as a whole, that it is very important for society to expect that, as politicians, we will be able to set the priorities for how we will protect the forest in Estonia in the next ten years, how we will manage it, so that we can ensure that our forests are species-rich, sustainable and also forest-related activities are guaranteed to all people of Estonia, as is the case today, and that we should look at where we can make it even better. I certainly want to highlight a few things that were left to the previous speaker's mind. It is this statement that we are driving the nearest half of Estonia's forest into an oven, I think that this statement is sloganful and should be looked at a little behind this background. First of all, I would like to stress that wood and wood heating our stoves and stoves have been our daily activities for a century or more. It's a perfectly reasonable thing to do. I know, having been a young boy or even now, as a man, in the woods, that certainly, if you do forestry work in the woods, there will come up with a log that makes sense to manage, which makes sense to be used for construction purposes, but on the ditch side there is a meadow that makes sense to be used for furnace heating or for other purposes, the value of this wood compared to the value of other logs in the woods is not so high. Once again, we also need to look at the fact that when we manage the forest, the value of timber we get out of this forest. Once again, I stress: our aim should be that if we manage this Estonian natural resource, the forest, the economic value added to the timber products obtained must take place here in Estonia and this added value must return to Estonian society. It's very important. But forest products or forest management are also left with residues, the purpose of which, and also the added value of which, in some other cases, other than using it as heating material, is not so effective. If there are better technologies to use here, if there are new ideas on how to create this higher-class added value, then certainly these are debates that must be held in Parliament. Once again, I am extremely pleased that we have considered this debate here as an introduction. I sincerely hope that such a debate will take place in Parliament again and again before the development plan for forestry is completed. Estonia's forests are important to us, they are important to our people, and we as politicians must also be responsible for our actions to reflect society's expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U113	Thank you! Mr. Ossinovski has asked for a recliner, although I don't know if it was... Please, Mr. Ossinovski, the line!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U114	Thank you, President of the sitting. Yes, it was. The previous speaker called it a slogan of my view that half of Estonia's forest is going into the oven. No, Minister, it's not slogan. The Environmental Agency has produced material called the "Wood Balance sheet'. Please take care of this, your own administration will do this review. From there you can see that half of the Estonian forest really is going to be energy, including what you call a firewood that can heat stoves, only less than 2 million cubic metres, but the wood pellet is going to be more than 3 million, and about 3 million cubic metres for wood chips. So this is certainly not a slogan but a completely real assessment of how Estonian timber is used. After all, it is not primarily a question of whether someone is heating their sauna with a leopard, but it is a question of electricity production in inefficient fossil fuel plants in the way that they now want to do in Narva, but what else is being done in the Netherlands and Great Britain from the granules produced from Estonian forests. Most of this energy goes to waste. The production of this energy generates very high CO2 emissions from this wood and the forest is cut off in the same way. There is a need for change here, and these changes are urgently needed. There is certainly no way that denying the necessity of these changes as a minister will lead you in the right direction. So I suggest you look at this analysis, this review of the use of the Estonian forest, which has been revealed to us by the Department of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U115	Good minister! However, I will not give you another word right now. The possibility of a rejoinder applies to members of the Riigikogu, and the minister had the opportunity to say his, you can say that, to the end. But if there is a very, very strong wish, I can see that the Minister for the Environment will also have the opportunity to respond to the next item. So you will decide how much more you want to devote to the subject of the forest or focus only on the ecological status of the lakes. That concludes the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U116	We will go to the third item, the request submitted by the member of the Riigikogu, Reuben Kaalepi on 15 February, for the ecological status of Estonian lakes. The word for opening speech is Reuben Kaalep. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U117	Dear Riigikogu! Dear Minister, A famous Estonian poet once wrote such lines: "I thought it was time for me to talk about lakes. I thought I had an obligation to talk about lakes. " Today, as the last item on the agenda, we are discussing another very important environmental issue, which concerns an integral part of Estonian nature, Estonia's landscape. The lakes cover 4.8% of the area of the Republic of Estonia and according to this, Estonia is the fourth largest in Europe. The lakes form an inherent niche in Estonian nature, without which Estonia is not Estonia. As a result, lakes have played an invaluable role in Estonian culture, Estonian folklore and Estonian history. If these arguments are not enough, the European Union's Water Framework Directive, which aims to protect and improve the status of water ecosystems, can be highlighted. According to this, by 2015 at the latest, all surface water bodies had to be in good ecological condition. Those that, by way of exception, did not reach good status, however, had to recover from their condition. This objective was later extended until 2021. At the same time, only 10% of the ecological status of Estonian lakes had been evaluated by 2018. These studies also showed that 43% of Estonian lakes need protection and remedial measures. In particular, lakes are at particular risk, which are low and with medium water hardness. It is also the most common of the Estonian lake types. Such lakes are threatened by human activity and eutrophication. Consequently, on 15 February, I submitted an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment with the following questions. Firstly, in accordance with the objectives of the Framework Directive, have Estonian lakes been able to be brought to good ecological status by 2021? Secondly, how much of the Estonian lakes have so far failed to bring to good ecological status and which action plans will apply to these lakes in the future? Thirdly, what measures are foreseen for the remediation and restoration of lakes in future water management plans and other relevant documents? Fourthly, by what deadline is it planned to complete the assessment of the ecological status of all Estonian lakes in order to be able to find and implement appropriate measures for all poor lakes? Fifthly, what safeguards should be added to the lakes affected by human activity in order to stop their further eutrophication? Sixthly, what amount of investments are foreseen by the Ministry of the Environment for the coming years in order to restore and heal lakes? And lastly, in February of this year, the Ministry of the Environment deleted 28 lakes from the list of publicly used water bodies, most of which had been destroyed due to growing or swamping. How many more lakes do you think will have to be removed from the list for this reason over the next ten years? I hope that we will have meaningful and constructive answers to these questions, which will also express our collective desire to protect Estonian nature and Estonian lake, which are an important and integral part of our nature and landscapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U118	Now the Minister for the Environment, Tõnis Möldr, has the floor to answer these questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U119	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm going to apologize to Ruuben Kaalep first, but I'm going to check out that last question for one minute. I think Jevgeni Ossinovski is definitely a smart politician and he can take out the Environmental Agency's numbers exactly the statistical number that suits him. I'm going to take out a completely different number here, whether it's a little or a lot, it's a debate on its own, but number 32 is what I'd like to say. This does not necessarily mean that more than half of Estonia's forests go into the oven. This is definitely statistics and there are always interesting disputes here. But once again, I apologize to Reuben Kaalep, who actually wants to know about the ecological status of Estonian lakes. I'd be happy to answer his questions. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kaalepit for raising such an important issue, and this question has also been submitted in the Riigikogu. But let's go to the answers. First of all, on the first question, Mr Kaalep wants to know whether, according to the objectives of the framework directive, Estonian lakes have been able to be brought to good ecological status by 2021. There are over 1500 natural lakes in Estonia, plus more than 1000 artificial and swollen lakes. The status of surface water, including lakes, shall be accounted for by body of surface water. There are currently 744, including 635 watercourses, 93 stabling pools and 16 coastal watercourses. The status of a body of surface water shall be determined on the basis of the ecological status or chemical status of the body of surface water, whichever is the worse. Based on the 2019 status assessment prepared by the Environmental Agency, 35 of the 93 lakes are in good ecological condition. Between 2015 and 2021, the Water Management Plans set the objective of achieving good status of 84 lakes by the end of 2021. Although there are currently no data available for 2021, it can be assumed that by the end of 2021 the good status of all these lakes will not be achieved. The second question: "How much of the Estonian lakes have so far not been able to bring to good ecological status and which action plans will apply to these lakes in the future? " Around 38% of the water pools associated with lakes are in good ecological condition and measures need to be taken to achieve good ecological status for the rest of them. Water management plans are being drawn up to improve the status of rivers, lakes, groundwater and coastal waters. Specific measures to improve the status of each non-beneficiary pool shall be defined in the Water Management Plans Action Programme, taking into account pressures affecting the status of the pool. So the important keyword is that we look at this set as a whole. Third point: "What measures are foreseen for the remediation and restoration of lakes in future water management plans and other relevant documents? "The programmes of measures of the water management plan are being drawn up for the period from 2021 to 2027. At the moment, a total of 106 measures have been proposed in the draft Action Programme on surface water to improve the status of lakes in any condition. A study to identify the causes of disadvantages and to develop technical measures is foreseen in the lakes for which research is needed to identify ways to improve their condition. In lakes for which no technical measures have been previously developed, these measures are intended to be implemented, including, for example, mowing of reeds, ensuring stability of water levels, removal of sediments and much more. It is also planned to assess and, if necessary, amend the reference conditions of the pool, which may result in a specification of the status of the pool, on a number of unconvinced lakes. Question 4: "What is the deadline for completing the assessment of the ecological status of all Estonian lakes so that appropriate measures can be found and implemented for all poor lakes? " The Environmental Agency updates the status information of surface water bodies annually, using information collected under the national environmental monitoring programme, information from water use reports, modelling and other available information. Question 5: What safeguards should be added to the lakes affected by human activity in order to stop them from growing further? In recent centuries, pressure from human influences on the environment has increased and has led to a sharp deterioration in the ecological status of many lakes. The growing of lakes is a change in the state of the body of water caused by the enrichment of the water with nutrients, which has led to the growth of the water vegetation in the lake. Water transparency decreases, oxygen deficiency occurs in water layers close to the bottom of the lake, and sediment contamination occurs in the bottom of the lake. In order to stop further, it is very important to reduce the load of nutrients carried from the water catchment area to the lake. This can be done by reducing the input of nutrients from agriculture and by using sustainable farms, as well as by expanding joint sewers, ensuring waste water treatment in non-channeled areas, as well as by establishing individual on-site treatment systems for waste water. Question 6: "To what extent do the Ministry of the Environment envisage investments to restore and heal lakes for the coming years? " The volume of possible investments in the coming years is not yet known. The Ministry of the Environment has proposed to channel EUR 4 million of external aid to improve water pools, including lakes, in the use of the EU Cohesion Policy Operational Programme for the period 2021 to 2027, but the possibility of interventions to this effect has not yet been identified. Negotiations with the European Commission are ongoing and coordinated by the Ministry of Finance. Question 7: "In February of this year, the Ministry of the Environment deleted 28 lakes from the list of publicly used water bodies, most of which had been destroyed as a result of growing up or swamping. How many lakes do you think will have to be removed from the list for this reason for the next 10 years? " Growing up the lakes is a long process that takes place naturally but has accelerated as a result of human influence. Growing up is faster in shallow and small lakes. It is not possible to predict at the moment how much lake could disappear in the next ten years. If the nutrient load in lakes remains the same as in the previous period, then it can be predicted that the small lake will disappear at a similar rate. It is therefore important that the nutrient burden on lakes is further reduced and that the number of busy lakes is reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U120	The first question is Jevgeni Ossinovsky. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The percentage you referred to, 32, is undoubtedly very high. But could you name the source of your statistics, then it would be possible to continue the debate on this subject, in another format? But I'd ask you about that question, too. You rightly said that the agricultural nutrient spill on the lakes is one of the causes of eutrophication. As your minister, what are you planning to do in order for the Ministry of Rural Affairs to take more ambitious targets in this context, especially as regards the biodiversity strategy, where Estonia has opposed, for example, stricter proposals for fertiliser use, as well as in the context of the development plan for agriculture and fisheries, where environmental objectives are very less ambitious? Have you already communicated your stronger views on this to the Minister for Rural Affairs, or are you planning to do so? How are you going to get on with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U122	Thank you, Mr Ossinovski, for this good question. First of all, my number comes from data from the Environment Agency, so we may be able to hold this debate separately. As I said, there are a lot of interesting figures in environmental agency numerology. If we look at this data as a whole, we can hold this debate. In that sense, I agree with you that I did not once emphasise in my reply whether one number is large or small. I tried to understand and agree on what number we were holding in this debate. I didn't take a stand. But to come to your question, which concerns this specific question, the ecological condition of many Estonian lakes has clearly deteriorated considerably because of the agricultural activity, say, the footprint. There are still two important keywords here, which are certainly, I think, also important for the Ministry of Rural Affairs: to review the composition of fertilisers once again, to review whether it meets the modern criteria and whether it coincides with our long-term strategies. Once again, this is the modernisation of the fertilisers that we use in agriculture. Another important keyword is certainly how we reduce the use of pesticides in agriculture as a whole, which equally leaves a very clear and large mark on biodiversity as well as an ecological footprint on the ecosystem of our lakes. I think that the key word here is that the agricultural sector must move towards even more modern technologies and the use of even more modern additional instruments. I certainly want to stress to you the word 'biodiversity' that you have brought into play and which also relates to this question of inquiry. Undoubtedly, the coalition agreement states that we are moving forward with the development of a biodiversity strategy as a whole. Somewhere two weeks ago, the Government of the Republic approved the development plan for the environment for 2030 and the process of drafting it is precisely the biodiversity chapter that should address the topics that you have highlighted and which will certainly help to reduce the deterioration of the ecological status of Estonian lakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U123	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U124	Thank you. I would like to ask you about future investments in the healing of lakes. You said that Estonia has requested EUR 4 million for this, but it is up to the Ministry of Finance to negotiate with the European Union. If these negotiations were to go badly, i.e. the money is not being received or not being received as much as expected, does this mean that the lakes that are currently threatened will not be saved, or will you then be prepared to fight for alternative sources of funding so that this very important ecological issue can still be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U125	Thank you. I think this is certainly an important question that you are asking. As I said, negotiations on the use of the next European Union structural instruments and other instruments are still underway with the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission. There are many positions that Estonia has had to change precisely because our applications have not been eligible. This 4 million, which I referred to in our assessment, as well as during previous discussions with the European Commission, has been made available, should be eligible for aid. So this 4 million foreign aid to heal water pools, including lakes, should be the amount of resources that we will use in the next period precisely to improve the ecological status of our Estonian lakes. There is no doubt that the question of our state budget, the different resources and whether any additional resources can be obtained here must be reviewed. This is definitely the place where the budget strategy and also the state budget negotiations are taking place. This is certainly a forum for discussion and here we can use different, also our national programmes, including, in my opinion, the Environmental Investment Centre (Environmental Investment Centre) to help and bring additional investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U126	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! What are the most endangered lakes in Estonia today? I'm gonna ask you a pretty simple question.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U128	Thank you. Above all, I say once again that these lakes, which are naturally low in water levels and which are already prone to growing up, are beginning to develop. In addition, soil fertility may be higher than the average, which in turn contributes to growing up, among other things agricultural activity. Yeah, these lakes are, I think, the most critical condition, they're more likely to grow up. There are many ways to reduce this growth. I answered that question once before. It is either the mowing of the reed, the stability of the water level (in these lakes we should talk about increasing the stability of the water level), or the removal of sediments. It requires all such activities. Each time it has to be assessed from the perspective of what these activities will bring about specifically in this lake and what ecological impact such human activities will have on the future of the lake.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U129	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Kurtna Lake, located in Ida-Virumaa, is one of the most serious, how to say, the combinations of lakes in Estonia. How does the Ministry of the Environment assess the situation of Lake Kurtna and what are its prospects?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U131	Thank you. With regard to Kurtna in particular, I must honestly admit that I do not know in detail the ecological status of all Estonian lakes, including large lakes, by heart. I'm sure I can send you that fine-tuning assessment. Just as I said, there are over 1,500 natural lakes in Estonia, and I do not want to judge the state of everyone by heart and I do not want to be wrong. I think your question is benevolent in that sense. There's another way I can answer that. We certainly monitor the condition of the lakes regularly, every year. We do both spot monitoring and look at the information and data we receive from different activities, we model them, and on the basis of this information package we assess the ecological status of these lakes. So for the particular lake or lake you asked about, I think, we have the data and we can share that assessment with you later, if that's what you want. I, here as a minister, would not be able to make this assessment, because I am certainly not well-informed enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U132	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Reuben Kaalep!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U133	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the Environment for answering these important questions. Unfortunately, the figures that we have heard did not take away the concerns that have arisen because of the condition of the Estonian lakes. The fact that Estonia was unable to meet its targets for the ecological status of lakes by 2015 and by 2021, is actually going under the bar. It is worrying that so far we do not have a clear plan or strategy to go forward in the future in such a way that all Estonian lakes really reach the good ecological status they should reach if we care about our nature. To sum up these two questions, one relating to the situation of Estonian forests and the other to the situation of lakes, both of them show that we cannot see nature simply as a resource for human use. Especially for us Estonians, an indigenous nation born as a tribe, raised as a nation together with the same nature, from the Ice Age over thousands of years. This nature, these landscapes have shaped our culture, our language and our nation as we are. For us, this nature and this land are especially sacred and especially important. So, in all these environmental issues, it is very important that we can also discuss them on a cross-party basis and find common language, common understanding, common solutions to the threats that concern our nature, our land and the landscapes that, as a nation, are one of our most precious assets. Once again, I would like to thank everyone who took part in this debate. We hope that setting up and raising this issue will continue to help to resolve these concerns in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U134	Now is the opportunity for the Minister for the Environment to conclude. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U135	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the author of the inquiry, Reuben Kaalepit. I also thank the Riigikogu for this important debate. I think that the state of not only lakes but also forests and the complete nature picture of Estonia are very important. I think that what the previous speaker mentioned in his final word is that we should look at the whole picture here and look for common ground as politically as best as possible is the right keyword. After all, at the end of the evening, we also have to admit that this is our only nature, and we have to keep this Estonian nature as well as we can, because it is only one and only we have, it is dear to us, it is important. But in dealing with this nature, we still have a lot to learn. I come back once to what the previous speaker referred to in his speech, when we will arrive at that age when the ecosystem of our lakes has improved significantly. Yes, we are moving from year to year in a step-by-step direction to improve the ecological system of our lakes. We see a certain trend of improvement here, but it has not happened naturally as fast as we may have initially predicted. I think that this annual monitoring is important and an annual monitoring assessment can certainly be carried out. But in the long term, I sincerely hope that the funding of the next European Union structural funds and the additional resources coming from the state budget and the Environmental Investment Centre will provide an important impetus to improve the ecological status of our lakes, so that those long-term goals that we have set for the protection and maintenance of Estonian lakes are still clear and clear and we can follow them. I do hope that 2027 could be the time, 2025, when we have brought the ecological status of all Estonian lakes to a good or satisfactory level. That's what we have to work for. I believe that all previous ministers, as well as officials, have really hurt the heart precisely because of the ecological status of the Estonian lakes. I am pleased that such a concern has also spread to Parliament, and I am pleased that we are dealing with this common concern and looking for solutions. Such debates have certainly been welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U136	We have exhausted the third item. All enquiries have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-03-22_U137	Now all that's left is a free microphone. Anyone who wants to say something in a free microphone, please sign up after the hammer hit. [[Hammer strike.]] That's not what you want. Consequently, today's agenda has been well exhausted. Thank you to all those who survived! I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. The sitting is adjourned.
