ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 15th working week Thursday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to pass on enquiries and drafts. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to give the Riigikogu, on behalf of the Special Committee against Corruption, a draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act. This amendment concerns only one particular paragraph and one specific paragraph thereof: § 48 (22). Perhaps some of you will remember that at some point we have already amended the same § 48 in such a way that the audit committee of the local government council may not be a member of a person who is at the same time the CEO of a company, foundation or non-profit organisation under the control of the same municipality or city, the manager, a member of the board of directors, or the head of an institution managed by the same municipality or city administration, or his deputy. In the meantime, on 17 April last year, the Supreme Court passed a decision that the restriction that has been in force so far that a member of a city or rural municipality council may not be a person working on the basis of a contract of employment in the same city or rural municipality administration. This restriction has been lifted and now these people can be members of a municipal or parish council. This means that they automatically have the right to be a member of the same municipal or city council review committee, which also means that a person should supervise his/her own superiors, his/her own employer. Inevitably, a person encounters a conflict of interest and, in order to avoid this conflict of interest, the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption proposes to amend § 48 (22) of the KOKS and to provide that a person working in a municipality or city authority under a contract of employment may not be a member of the Audit Committee of the same municipality or city council. We hope that this will be implemented immediately after the next local elections. Thank you. The draft has been delivered electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U3	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will hand over to the Social Democrats Eduard Odinets, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof and Jaak Juske an inquiry into one of the biggest shortcomings of the Estonian justice and judicial system. And that's years of dealing with corruption cases. If we look at the current coalition agreement, it will make the fight against corruption one of the government's priorities, and the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have a responsibility to ensure a capable prosecutor's office and judicial proceedings. Unfortunately, a number of cases of corruption with high public attention continue to stretch and stretch, creating additional costs for the country and ruining the parties to the proceedings. The press has also repeatedly pointed out the poor quality of the material provided by the prosecutor's office. Both in criminal proceedings and in legal proceedings, the rights of both parties must be guaranteed, so that corruption cases cannot linger for an unknown period. That is our position. There can be no purpose for years of processing, especially when there is no foreseeable outcome. It may also be in the interests of the accused that a decision is reached in the proceedings. It is therefore necessary to establish a functioning system that ensures both the ability of the prosecutor's office to prosecute properly and the capacity of the court to discuss the matter within a reasonable period of time. And we've been asking a series of questions. For example, Maris Lauri needs to assess how time-consuming the court proceedings for corruption cases should be in order to reach a conviction or acquittal in a realistic time. The Minister must also state the costs of the state's proceedings in relation to the possible benefits that may have been obtained illegally or potentially obtained in the charge, etc., etc. The request for information is submitted by electronic means.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U6	90 members of the Riigikogu wrote themselves, missing 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U7	Let's go to today's agenda. There is one item on the agenda, it is an overview by the President of the Supreme Court about the organisation of the court, the administration of justice and the uniform application of the law. I invite the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! It's been a year since I've been here, and according to the law, it's time to give an overview of the court order, the administration of justice and the uniform application of the law. I'm gonna say I have a pretty long report. I'll see if I can tell you everything here or try to pull some places together. It's all written down. First of all, let me give you a little overview of last year's numbers and any tendencies in the judicial system that exist in resolving matters. I am also talking about specific bottlenecks in the judicial work and further concerns that have been amplified during the pandemic, and I will also make some proposals to the legislator. But first of all, what this last difficult pandemic year looked like to us. I would first of all like to stress that the judicial system also operates in a general manner in the context of a pandemic situation. Honest and objective justice is guaranteed, and mostly court cases are also guaranteed, I must emphasise the word'mostly' within a reasonable period of time and people's free access to justice. The protection of these rights is generally guaranteed, supported by both statistical indicators and external assessments of the Estonian judicial system. The courts have managed to cope, have used many electronic tools to resolve matters and more written procedures. At the same time, we have considerable concerns and doubts as to whether the courts will continue to be able to resolve matters at the same pace. How's it been last year? In general, there has been an increase in the number of cases and it is worrying whether courts are able to cope with the increasing workload, as normal sittings are hampered and, in addition, budget cuts are welcome in the context of increasing workload. It may be a source of joy that the number of cases brought to court has decreased. At the same time, the number of civil and administrative matters has increased. By 2020, a total of 33658 civil cases were received from the County Court, which is about 1000 more than 2019 and 4000 more than 2018. Significant increase in workload! What is even more worrying is the statistics on the urgent procedure for the order for payment, which are then small debts before the court comes to court. And by 2020, there are already 45566 items that have more than 6,000 more than 2019 and more than 10,000 more than 2018. So the share of debt disputes has increased considerably. What conclusions can be drawn from this, we do not know exactly, but small debts have increased. These things, however, gradually move on to the courts of the country, higher courts, enforcement proceedings, and increase work everywhere. Although the increase in debt disputes and insolvency cases last year had initially been less than feared, thanks to the support measures of the national economy, this could simply mean delaying this burden, increasing the number of debt disputes, employment disputes and tax disputes with little delay. The increase in administrative matters has been more than 10% compared to the two previous years. It can be argued that this trend will continue. 26% more things have reached Tallinn Administrative Court in the first quarter of 2021 than at the same time last year. So much for numbers. The speed of the proceedings is essential for the functioning of the State. The European Union Justice Scoreboard has argued that reducing the duration of legal proceedings by 1% could speed up the growth of businesses, so that it is important. Despite the pandemic, in 2020 the pace of civil settlement was maintained in rural courts, and civil cases were resolved in an average of 95 days. But there's all the civilian stuff in there. It took 282 days for substantive cases, which is slightly more than in 2019. In the international perspective, according to the European Union Scoreboard, the time spent in resolving commercial and civil disputes in Estonia was five in the European Union and even the second in all levels of justice in the European Union, as measured by the Courts of First Instance in the period 2012-2018. So we have been very fast in the European view. I would specifically like to stress that in consumer disputes, in the calculation of consumer claims, Estonia is the second highest in the European Union according to this table. In essence, as in 2019, the average time taken to resolve complaints submitted by the county court in misdemeanour proceedings was 47 days, and almost the same in the administrative court was 126 days. According to this scoreboard, Estonia has five European countries in administrative matters. The speed of our legal proceedings has also been assessed in a report on the rule of law drafted by the European Commission. The most important time has been extended in general proceedings in criminal matters. By 2020, it was on average 255 days, in 2019 226 and in 2018 216 days. So the prolongation has taken place in the general proceedings in criminal proceedings. Efficiency. How can effectiveness be assessed? One indicator of efficiency is the number of decisions of county courts and administrative courts being challenged. In general, there has been a little less appeal in the circuit court last year. Only 5.6% of civil cases and 9.7% of county court cases were pronounced. The percentage in administrative courts is higher. The percentage is 33.4 which is very high compared to other types of proceedings. The number of complaints increased by 2020, which is currently on the rise. According to the Tallinn Circuit Court, the number of complaints in administrative matters increased by about 20% in the first quarter of this year, and by 15% in civil matters compared to the same period last year. At the same time, in terms of cost efficiency, the Estonian judicial system is still one of the thinst in Europe. We in Estonia have averages of total government spending on courts as a percentage of GDP, but in euro per capita, the lowest in the European Union. The number of judges per 100000 people in Estonia is also below the European Union average. The court fees for the opening of the dispute are rather below average, among the lowest in commercial disputes and consumer disputes. We have received praise for the availability of electronic means. And we have also received praise for the effectiveness of our justice and enforcement systems in the World Bank report. We have received a high eighth place in the enforcement of business contracts. True, for example, in insolvency proceedings we are still 54th place. The independence of courts and their perception in society are also important. Again, the European Union Scoreboard says that if this independence increases by 1% it can also lead to an increase in the turnover of companies, an increase in productivity. The overall perceived independence of courts and judges in Estonia is above the European Union average. However, in the case of entrepreneurs, we are, for some reason, in the last third, which no one really knows how to explain, even when speaking to entrepreneurs. I am also talking about the Supreme Court and its activities in 2020. The number of complaints in criminal and administrative matters has decreased slightly, in civil matters. Around 13% of the applications have been processed. It has decreased considerably in civil matters, increased in criminal matters. Disputes are becoming more and more complex, time-consuming. The important task of the Supreme Court is to harmonise case law, further develop it, to give opinions in disputes arising from the application of the law. In 2020 the Supreme Court made several important decisions in several areas. For example, in the area of criminal law and criminal proceedings, the illegal handling and use of narcotic drugs, the use of force by a police officer in law enforcement, the working principles of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee, the conditions for the release of life-long prisoners and emergency protection, and many other matters in the area of procedural law were clarified, including the case of Mati Alaver's file, which was the subject of public attention, as well as the public coverage of the Tallinn Port process. In administrative matters, the Administrative College has explained, among other things, the recovery of subsidies, the use of private land as a public road, rail access charges, the establishment of plans and communications, and much more, including building permits and residence permits. In civil matters, important solutions have been made, for example, on the validity of collective agreements, the expiry of requirements arising from design contracts and family law conciliation procedures. In 2020, 12 constitutional monitoring matters were resolved, including the application of the President of the Republic to assess the constitutionality of the mandatory funded pension reform law, as well as requests for the prohibition of working elsewhere in the local government council, the procedures for sharing family allowances among parents and the allocation of allowances due to coro-navirism. We are currently dealing with four matters of constitutional supervision, in which the issue of the dismissal of equal treatment (we expect a preliminary ruling from the European Court of Justice), the withdrawal of a coach's invitation from a person under the Child Protection Act, the constitutionality of nature conservation restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property and equal treatment in the issuing of residence permits is to be resolved. Estonia has been very positive in the view of the European Court of Human Rights. 134 complaints were filed against Estonia in 2020, but the infringement was found in a single case. That's a pretty good result. This one thing related to the application of handcuffs to the prisoner at the hospital. However, there are a number of disputes in the proceedings and we will see what they have ended next year. The European Court of Justice has issued a ruling last year on an application from an Estonian court, which was on the recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. Two of them have been made this year, including an important solution on access to communication data in criminal proceedings, under public scrutiny. Worries, too. The main concern, however, is the increase in the workload of the courts, which I have already mentioned in the procedural statistics. The more time has gone on, the more concern has grown. We recently held a hearing in the court administration council, where this concern gained even more leverage. The courts are overburdened and unable to cope with the current resource at an increasing workload and in the continuation of a corona situation where normal procedures cannot be used. It may be feared that although the speed of the review was not significantly lower by 2020, it may be statistically apparent. Perhaps more minor and written procedures have been resolved on the agenda and big things have been postponed, which accumulate at one point and hinder all judicial work. And new legislative changes, of course. A mass obsolescence in enforcement proceedings, a significant change in the insolvency situation, a possible change in the maintenance system that may arise, and the most prominent possible court authorisation requirement for the prosecution of communications data in the criminal proceedings, all of this requires additional resources to be put in the judicial system. The legislator has established a mechanism for directing matters through circuit courts to equalise the burden on courts. It's been tried. However, this is of little help, especially to the largest court in Harju County Court already working on the edge of abilities. The court may not be able to cope with the additional burden. There has not been any real change, it has caused frustration and tension in the judicial staff as well. People are overburdened and many are practically working without a single day of rest to cope with all this work. More effective solutions need to be developed. We hope that the Ministry of Justice will be able to propose at least a part of the case-sharing or transition to a national division by abandoning the existing regional jurisdiction. However, the possibilities of redeploying funds are not unlimited. It is still necessary to raise the issue of the creation of additional judges and additional staff directly supporting them in the administration of justice. There's nothing else left. We don't have anywhere to raise that resource in court. We understand that, at a difficult time, it is difficult for the state to find the means to do so, and here I have proposed two unpopular proposals: to review the judicial network as to whether it is economically viable to keep it, and, on the other hand, maybe to increase some state fees and consider changing the bail system. Then the people who turn there themselves would contribute more to the judgment. Another point might be that, if there were not a permanent increase in the number of judges, it might still be possible to consider replacement judges who would meet all the requirements for the judge and, in the event of a temporary increase in the workload, they would be able to put things in order. I guess it's caused a lot of debate and questions about how it could be. For example, they could be court officials, independent Advocates-General, who have passed the judicial examination and have passed the security check. Perhaps they could be applied on a temporary basis as judges. But unfortunately, there are also constitutional issues involved, so we need to think about it. Against this background, at least to the judges, I am conveying here the concerns of the judiciary, the voice that budget cuts are very much like shooting in the leg in this situation. They may throw us back in development, and I ask you seriously to think that in a year or two we should not be forced to say that we are buried in unsolved matters and that the proceedings have dragged over our heads. Then the judiciary must be directed at an emergency resource and perhaps more money than it should now. We have built one of the most effective judicial systems in European terms, which should be maintained and improved. But this has been achieved in many ways at the cost of the permanent overload of those working in court. And people are tired of the Korona and the burden it causes. When you tell them that your resources are being cut, it is very demotivating, so-called thanks for their efforts to be able to cope with all justice during the Coronary era. Digitisation of court proceedings. Very briefly, I would like to say that thanks to the digital file and information systems, the Court has also been able to work during the Coronary period. You got it! However, there have been all kinds of ongoing problems, which I have also written in the review, but I would like to say to the legislator that the code is not ripe. We do not have a clear legal regulation on the digital dossier, we do not have clear protocol, we have a number of other issues that can also help legislatively and think about how digitisation could work better. At the same time, it should not result in the loss of physical contact, of a hearing which is, in fact, necessary in many cases to resolve matters, even in order to direct witnesses to speak the truth, to reach compromises, agreements and, in criminal proceedings, to ensure the defendant's confidential communication with the lawyer. Several of these problems have emerged. And if you think that digitisation will reduce costs, that is not the case at the moment. In fact, we are not at such a level that we can give up people in justice. Maybe in five or ten years, but right now, it's not going to make any savings. At first, on the contrary, this means higher costs. The rigidity and resource intensity of the general proceedings in criminal matters, both in time and financially, remain among the main concerns of the judiciary, focusing on infinite contact sessions, procedural procedures where this may not be necessary to resolve the case. At the time of the pandemic, it has come out of print, which is confirmed by statistics on the increase in procedural times. I have spoken about this in both my earlier parliamentary reports, and yet there is no progress. It's very sad. The experts in criminal proceedings and the Ministry of Justice have so far not wished to accept that the core of the problem lies deep in the ideology of this procedure, which makes the general procedure for particularly large cases cumbersome and slower than in similar large civil and administrative proceedings. I dare say that such general criminal proceedings are simply beyond the control of our people. They will not be able to do this in the big things as the legislator expects them to. The Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft review of criminal proceedings, but it only solves detailed concerns. Rather, I think that the time is ripe for the fundamental revision and table of this procedure in the spirit of other legal proceedings, in order to increase the role of judge there, to reduce the resource intensity of contact sessions by replacing them with written procedures and virtual sessions on organisational issues. Let us hope that this subject is taken to the table. The Justice Department has finally promised it, so maybe it'll be dealt with. The resolution of civil actions in the framework of the General Criminal Procedure is also very problematic, but I do not want to dwell on this. Since the rules of procedure are different in civil and criminal proceedings, they simply do not work together. Last year I spoke, but I will repeat that court proceedings are in many ways hampered by the unreasonable time limits arising from the law, with which the legislator has, in many cases, prescribed what is a priority, which must be resolved at all times first. A number of other things remain unresolved in this regard, and they remain on hold. Such ideological decision-making raises problems. However, it would be more appropriate to trust the courts and see that they can resolve matters in a reasonable order, so that they are more and resolved within a reasonable period of time. Health threats in court hearings. Indeed, there has been such a concern in the general criminal proceedings that we also had between 30 and 40 people in our halls in the middle of the corona wave. Long days, few breaks in one room. The money for renting major courtrooms has not been given to the courts. There's no way to keep the distance you need. At the same time, the court cannot put things on hold and, in general proceedings, leave people in court and also in custody for many years, and end them because of exceeding the reasonable period of proceedings, making the work of both the police and the prosecutor's office pointless in bringing those accused to justice. I would like to complain here to the executive that those judges who dealt with general proceedings or requests for arrest and also went to closed facilities and had to deal with people on a regular basis were not included in the front line at the time of vaccination, although this was repeatedly explained. I am of the opinion that these judges were much more on the front line than policemen and many rescuers who, to a large extent, do not come into contact with people on this scale. But it's in the past, hopefully the vaccination will be over soon. A few more points. I'm asking if I can get some more time, five to ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U9	Three minutes is usually possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U10	Okay, okay, then I'll count on it. I have marked here the subject of 'Entrusting the independence of the State Court and constitutional institutions and other constitutional institutions in the budgetary process'. What have we seen now? This should not depend on the discretion of the executive authority, if it is now, whether it is in the process of resolving budget requests or in the process of budget cuts. We have pointed out that this cannot be done by order. One day, they're just telling you to cut down 6% of the budget. There must be a mechanism that brings budgetary choices to the Riigikogu. We hope that, together with other constitutional institutions, we will be able to propose solutions to change the financing scheme and bring them to the Riigikogu at some point. With regard to the public in court proceedings, the press has actually been up and running for a year on a number of topics: access to files, transmission of digital virtual sessions, disclosure of judgments without entry into force. The Ministry of Justice will deal with all of them, and hopefully sometime the Riigikogu will also come to see this public issue of legal proceedings. Judicial proceedings are quite much hampered by a high degree of freedom in the same way as the reimbursement of procedural costs and too little standard of detail, which makes procedures longer. In this respect, I hope that it will be possible for the legislator to help and standardise, to automate this reimbursement of costs. Perhaps this implementation will help court officials, free up resources. It also concerns state aid and other procedural aid. I cannot fail to mention the social security of judges and judicial officials. We cannot compete with other lawyers' salaries if we are looking for highly qualified top specialists. And even if we do not talk about the salaries of judges at all here, at least the fact that wages are the same for all, regardless of their seniority and burden, the speciality of responsibilities is demotivating, does not encourage the performance of their duties to a greater extent and does not encourage self-improvement. People lack career opportunities, and it actually attracts their interest and motivation. We should think of something here. Retirement fees, multi-stage management structures, people would have some kind of career opportunity or at least an understanding of what to work for. The salaries of the Advocates-General relate to the remuneration of judges, and the law does not allow them to be differentiated. Again, everyone gets the same kind of pay, which is not really very rational given the different workload and responsibilities. On the contrary, the councillors of the Supreme Court have been excluded from this system, but they too would need substantial help. Come on, other court officials. The pay gap for the secretaries of the hearing is 36% compared to the public sector, by the way, we do not find people. The situation with the translations is even worse, the lawkeepers are even the lowest-income public officials. We're actually in trouble. And if we cut it again... We are quite frankly in great difficulty. And I would still like to mention here the proposal that, in an attempt to ensure the independence of the judiciary and also that people retire at a reasonable time, I think it would be right for the state to guarantee payments to the second pension pillar or the third to those judges who have lost a special pension. This would help bring better, qualified people into our system, which is essential in a situation where many judges are about to retire. Two more brief issues. Three minutes for that, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U11	We've got six minutes and we're running out of three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U12	Got it. One issue is constitutional review proceedings. The Supreme Court is also a constitutional review court, but there are growing problems in fulfilling this function. The Constitutional Review Law is, in a sense, an orphan. He's in the way of time. Other procedural laws are constantly being modernised, which, unfortunately, is virtually not at all. There's a very simple reason. Since this is the procedure of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court is involved and the rest of the judicial system is not affected, the Ministry of Justice does not care very directly. The Supreme Court itself does not have the right to take legislative initiative, and so no one actually deals with this law. I'd say I couldn't handle it. There have been individual changes that the Supreme Court has attempted to initiate through the Special Committee on Constitutional Supervision in the Riigikogu. However, I think it is time for the legislator to adopt this law as a whole, first of all, to analyse the experts and examine what proposals could be made there: either to amend the whole or at least to change some organizational matters. This would also require a strong knowledge from the legislator that this issue could come to the table. There are minor procedural, organisational questions here, but of course there are also bigger questions about how things get to the Supreme Court, who will solve it in more detail there. I have also pointed out here the subject of "The decision-making complaints and the feasibility and order of resolving them." In fact, the Supreme Court is currently required to deal directly with complaints against the decision of the Election Committee of the Republic in urgent proceedings. The results of the election are not announced until the Supreme Court has made its final decisions. These complaints create an extraordinary amount of work in the Cyliklis of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court. However, disproportionately short solution times can lead to superficial solutions, as the evidence cannot simply be estimated in that time and everyone is waiting for the results of the election to be published. The identification of actual problems may be inhibited. If someone filed mass appeals, the work of the Supreme Court and thus the announcement of election results could be paralyzed for an indefinite period. It hasn't happened so far, but it can always come. Since there are many administrative issues that are being investigated, I propose that they should either be handed over to the administrative courts and then referred to the Supreme Court in urgent proceedings. Or you can send the Supreme Court to the administrative college and then untie the announcement of the election results from the resolution of the latest complaints. If not in other cases, at least in municipal elections and inter-election periods, this could be the case. This would then be essentially more effective in resolving complaints and the announcement of election results would not be behind it. The last thing is legal education, which is now very much on our table. The Supreme Court has carried out an analysis that reveals the critical state of legal education. The model that is currently in place does not provide sufficient guarantees for highly qualified lawyers who are in need of public authorities and entrepreneurship. Law is fading as a national science. The results of the professional exams of lawyers are very poor, so as not to say frustrating. The obligation to provide free education in day-to-day training has led to an inability to finance the necessary level of legal education, to pay lecturers competitive salaries, and all learning is targeted at paid distance learning. Legal services are also provided in Estonia outside the bar Association, which can be done by people with unverified backgrounds of knowledge. People with foreign education often lack the knowledge necessary to act as a lawyer in Estonia. There is no procedure for its assessment. Yet they are in this market and create confusion and problems. What is then proposed and which could ever reach the legislator's table is to allow or expand paid learning, to take up an integrated curriculum of 3+2 instead of learning, to introduce a uniform legal examination, to take legal advice service under national supervision, to control and to tighten the recognition of foreign diplomas. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! If you come to the beginning, I repeat that the proper functioning of justice will continue at a difficult time. Things can always be done better, and we hope very much that in a year's time, I won't have to be here with much worse numbers in front of you. This depends in many respects on the Riigikogu how the resources are distributed in the country. I wish you strength, strength and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U13	Thank you. There was a little time left. Now it's time to go to the questions. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U14	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Supreme Court, thank you for this review. It is scandalous, of course, that a few hundred thousand should be cut by the Supreme Court, 6% from its budget, with one day's notice. I think that Parliament must intervene here and really create a sensible system that would prevent such a constitutional institution from being humiliated by the executive power. But my question concerns environmental law. Indeed, the climate crisis is one of the most existential long-standing problems and risks to the Estonian state and people. As a result, there will be more environmental matters in the courts, such as the case of the oil shale oil plant, which has received much attention. My question in this context is: how many Estonian judges have been trained or are they planning to train about the climate crisis and the nature of climate change, so that they can make adequate and necessary decisions in these difficult matters, where economic interests and environmental interests are at stake?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U15	On this first remark, I state so much that, even before this letter from the Ministry of Finance came to us, a letter from the Minister, which warned a few hours in advance that a letter from an official of the Ministry of Finance would come. They also apologized for what happened. So I'm going to make this adjustment. But now the climate issue. All environmental law is, in fact, an extremely complex matter. It has become so complicated by international conventions, by all kinds of regulations and by European Union law that, indeed, it is probably quite difficult to orient in this. I dare say I certainly don't know how to orient myself. I'm not running these things either. I can't tell you how much training there is. But this has always been the case, and we have at least some specialized people in Estonia who have also received these external trainings and who are mindful of the issue of environmental law. I admit that we certainly do not have the fact that all more than 200 judges in the Republic of Estonia have a detailed knowledge of climate matters. I'm sure it isn't. Not even administrative judges, because specialization is inevitably necessary there. But this training has always been on the agenda at the Supreme Court. If there is a wish, we can find out how many trainings have taken place in recent years, but on the move, I really don't know what to say right now. But there is really no reason to doubt the complexity of this topic, as shown by the decisions of the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U16	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U17	Honourable waitress, thank you for your proper review. But what I want to ask is that when we look at hearings and judgments, there have been a lot of complaints that these are too'secret' lately, precisely in the sense that the hearings have been declared closed. After all, it has been said that hearings are public and that the verdict is public. According to the Constitution, in certain cases it is foreseen that it will not be done. My question is, why is there so much secrecy? People expect these operations to be visible. I understand that the press may crucify a person first, and the judgment may later be quite the opposite, that a person is right in every way. I'd also like to ask you about the minimum age in court. Should there not be a minimum age for judges? A five-man at the university doesn't mean he's five men in judgment, so life experience could be.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U18	There is no minimum age at the age of judges. I might be in trouble right now even answering that. But since there must be a law school, it inevitably sets a certain limit. We have a model for this type of judge, which is, let's say, a cheap model. We take these people from many judicial officials, including young people who are relatively inexperienced, because there are no others. It is also a question of how much we are betting on what we are offering the judge. Here in Europe, let us take England as an example. It's practically another career to become a judge. There will be lawyers and prosecutors who have already worked for this office. But the wages and social status of the judges in England are quite different than ours, and there are fewer. We still have a first instance judge in a sense, like a regular state official. Who can be opposed to having more experience in this profession? But if we put in place a better career requirement, we'll get even fewer people. Right now, the thing is, in the next few years, a very large number of judges are going to retire to whom we have to find some replacements. And here's the problem. It would be good if we could improve the single examination and make the filter tighter, although it is still the case that more than half of the people do not actually pass the judicial exam. The judge's examination committee has worked hard to select people, and they are also subject to security checks. But it's not all a substitute for life experience, I agree with that. But what choice do we make when the judges are empty and, as a rule, it is young people who are in the competition. There won't be any older, more senior people. That was the answer to the back of your question. The first part of the question got me off for a second. Right, sorry! Judicial secrecy, yes. Actually, this secrecy isn't that big. It's a very small amount of material being classified. I don't have an exact percentage at hand. And at least I haven't heard from the press either that it was about civil or administrative matters. We talk about criminal matters all the time. And we are talking about major criminal cases first and foremost, and that is the interest of the press. It can be said that, in some form, writing about what is happening in the courts is a kind of industry press. Yeah, great, you can make money with it, it's interesting, there's a conflict, right, and shutting down a trial is frustrating in the press. It's a view of the thing. However, neither the public is in itself a source of revenue. The question was why the hearings would be closed. There are probably several reasons. I don't have any statistics or reviews, but the main thing is the same interest in justice itself. And in criminal proceedings, it has been a great deal of questioning the Witnesses so that they can be interrogated calmly, so that no one will be quick to write about them. People will be consistently heard, all subjects and all stories spoken in such a way that the pressure of the public does not affect what is happening in court proceedings. Is that always justified? Probably not. And the problem with criminal proceedings is that the trial is going to be so long. If it were the case that two hearings were to be closed a week or two weeks apart, nothing would happen. Then the procedure could be open again. But our understanding is that the whole procedure must be closed. I think we should call more sessions in camera, but not a whole set of procedures. This is one decision that the judges may be making too much. On the other hand, they never do it alone, someone usually applies for it either as a lawyer or as a prosecutor. There are, of course, cases where there is the protection of a person's private life or the protection of a business secret or the protection of a state secret, it is inevitable. But I still don't think it's that big a problem. And we had the same round table that we arranged at the beginning of last year. We still expect a new draft from the Ministry of Justice and a clear vision of how to regulate these matters further. Hopefully, this one hecke will reach the Riigikogu and then you will be able to discuss this topic here.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U19	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U20	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! The presentation was very thorough. I'm sorry to hear there are a lot of problems in this area. But I was wondering about the word "righteousness," and in this connection, I would touch on this notorious Sixer case. It's been two years. The president found the man guilty, the press found him guilty with a big-ass sound. I understand that justice and justice are not equal, but is there also thought of this person's moral abuse, his health, his family, his children? How will his children view their country in the future? Can we blame them if they are not very loyal? If a person is guilty, he must be convicted, if not, he must be acquitted. How do you see what's going on here? Is that right, or is that justice, or how could this thing be?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U21	After all, my report also reveals concerns about criminal proceedings. They stretch, they start too late, the preliminary investigation lasts so long, and then there's bugs in it, right? It moves back, then he stands in court for maybe a year in line and then there arise delays, delays. I think that this problem is the same as I have already spoken about today: the awkwardness of the general procedure in criminal proceedings. It is called the protection of fundamental rights, but it often turns against the person himself. They say we're giving you huge complaints, but it's gonna cost you a lot of money, it's gonna cost you health, and worse, it's gonna cost you your whole life, and it's gonna cost you this whole criminal trial in this form. I can't comment on a particular case. I don't know what the Sixer thing is behind. Is it someone's request, is it bad organisation of the court, or is it just a huge burden and a long line in general criminal proceedings? But I absolutely share that concern. Otherwise, for the third year in a row, I am not saying that there is something to be done in the legislative process with these general criminal proceedings. The issue here is not just the unwillingness and involuntaryness of judges or the prosecution's office, but the question here is that procedural ideology itself somehow delays the procedure so much. A lot can be done by the judge, of course, but I really don't know what's there. It bothers me very much that this is the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U22	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your review. It seemed a very sad story today on quite a number of facets. But now I'd like to ask you two questions. First of all, you were talking about the overload of the judges and the judiciary. And you mentioned that with the restructuring of internal resources, such as the redistribution of cases, you could somehow also alleviate it with the available resources. Would you like to comment on that? And another thing: the same subject that was raised here today, the secrecy of the case. There are two different things. Yesterday, an article also appeared that the cases were closed or that the trial was closed. The second thing is that the press and the public will not be able to access the case-law after that. Perhaps you will also comment on why they cannot access and why the press has so desperately raised this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U24	That's what you're meeting with the overload. The situation is that there is a very heavy burden in one court, but there is an underload elsewhere. Then you have to look for ways to level this load, right? And at the moment, the legislative mechanism that was put in place last year is such that the decision of the Presidents of the District Courts can lead the courts to move things around. Today, the Chairman of the Harju County Court has made such a request, but the presidents of the circuit courts have not yet solved it. I'd just like to test how this mechanism works. The Ministry of Justice's plan is at least to switch to national division in some cases. I mean, things aren't regional anymore, they're breaking up across the country. This, of course, has its own problems where these sessions are held when these sessions are needed. But if, in the end, the overload is so high that the load is high everywhere, it doesn't help. We can't, let's say, say that if a judge at Harju County Court may be doing more work a month or two a year than they do in another court, that's probably the current situation, then you'll all have to do more than two months of normal work a year. We can't expect it to just tell people to listen, you have to solve 10,000 more things a year, but with the same resource. It's just not conceivable, especially by keeping up the same pace. Well, it just can't be! So there's an overload, and it's making mistakes in court decisions. Of course, judges need to get things off the table faster. But some things are limping, and that's a sad story. The decrease in the number of things is not the subject right now, but right now we're in a state that we don't know exactly where the trend is going. In a year, we'll be able to appreciate. Secrecy. I told you it's been upstairs. In a sense, it can be said that this has been the subject of the press, all the interest and desire to write court cases and the offense that they are not allowed to do so. It's the kind of purely business interest I see in this thing. On the other hand, this closure has indeed sometimes been questionable. The same Mati Alaver file was held at the Supreme Court, has been on several occasions. The Supreme Court finally ordered it to be shown and to be shown again for the second time. What's in here? Legislative regulations are also colliding here. It can't be said that the court is somehow guilty alone. It is the same general regulation of data protection in the European Union that everyone is afraid of as a collie, isn't it? No one knows exactly what you can and can't do. In judicial proceedings, there are different rules by type of procedure and they lead to the conclusion that the files should not be shown. So there are some rigid rules in the law, the judges stick to them, and there's an argument. The solution could be to bring the matter back to the legislator for a decision. The Ministry of Justice has not been able to complete this bill for a year, even though they have always promised that it will be brought out. The intention to develop has been, and it states that when it comes to accessing the file, without entering into force the public and everything else, the public should be increased, not reduced and properly regulated at all. I very much hope that this bill will finally be ready for them to get somewhere. We will have a House of Judges in June, dedicated to the public, on this very subject. There's discussion, debate over these questions. Hopefully, some solutions will also be proposed. That's where we can hear what's going on with these drafts right now. That's all I can say right now. I also sense the concern that things should be clear and there should be as little secrecy as possible, but still as much as necessary. The question is, where is this balance point?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U25	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U26	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Your presentation and repeated questions-answers have been a major and ever-increasing burden. Similarly, your report states that the number of administrative matters has increased, as well as their appeal. At the same time, in administrative matters, the procedure often takes place in four stages, i.e. first the appeal procedure before the administrative body and, in certain cases, the compulsory pre-trial procedure, for example in public procurement. Give me an idea or an idea of how you think the system can be made more efficient and also faster for all parties involved. Couldn't our administrative procedure be a two-step procedure, for example, so there is an administrative court and then a higher administrative court, be it separately or with the Supreme Court? Do you think it could be doable, conceivable, and reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U27	It's actually kind of a question of changing the constitution. The Constitution says that we have a three-stage judicial system: county courts, administrative courts, as well as circuit courts and the Supreme Court. It's written down there. Although the Supreme Court has also interpreted that certain vibrations in faster matters are possible. But it is not said that the entire administrative court system could be established in such a way that the circuit court would be outside. Today is the reason, at least it seems to me, that this is simply not possible. Similarly, a higher administrative court cannot be done, as the Constitution simply does not provide for it. That's why you need to change the constitution to do it. Would that be perfect? I do not think it would be good if the Supreme Administrative Court were separate from the Supreme Court. We know the countries where it is separate, but there are huge questions about the delimitation of competences. And the disputes between the higher courts, I don't know, there are five or six higher courts in Germany, all of which are in some way competitive. That would not be good in a small country, I think. We are now doing well in the sense that we are working hard at the Supreme Court, but there are still certain things that we can work out between all the judges. It's not like practice is different. In this sense, I think it is a good thing. However, as regards the exclusion of the proceedings before the district court, or part of the proceedings being brought before the district court rather than the administrative court of the first instance, I think that these matters deserve to be analysed. In some cases, the preliminary procedure is very clear. In matters of misdemeanour, the fact is that the district court has been left out and the matter goes to the Supreme Court. This, of course, adds to the burden in the Supreme Court. But really, it would need a proper analysis. As a whole, however, in order to abolish the circuit court, the Constitution should be amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U28	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U29	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! You mentioned earlier here that the courts are groaning under workload. In recent years, there has been a strong renewed tendency to be terribly offended and insulted and, therefore, hundreds of actions are brought before the courts, mostly by a financial claim. And at least most of these actions will be brought before the courts. They thus significantly increase their workload. If, for example, an alcoholic considers it insulting to call him a drunkard and it is known that most alcoholics do not profess to be an alcoholic, or common tongue, drunk, then the court must now determine whether the person is a drunkard or not, whether or not the plaintiff has been insulted. In fact, it should still be the doctors' responsibility to determine alcoholism. Basically, the main content of all these actions is to obtain financial benefits. My question is: how do you see this situation? Is there a more reasonable and less court - burdened solution to this tendency?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U30	Thank you. First of all, I say that it is very difficult for the courts to refuse to accept these actions if the law provides for the possibility of bringing an action for dishonor. If you start to say right now in the processing phase that you're a drunk and you have no honor, I'm very suspicious that the courts can do a lot at this stage. But I'll admit there could be some kind of barrier. The best barrier to such, let's say, empty claims would be a slightly higher state fee. If you want a luxury dispute, don't all taxpayers have to pay for it. It could be one of those filters that could help reduce these things. Of course, life has shown, at least to me, that the cyclical nature of the economy also affects the nature of the cases. If we really had to hope that we would not come, but if there were to be an economic crisis, people would forget about the insults and the dishonors and they would go to court for more contracts of employment, debts, maintenance, etc. So these lawsuit cases are kind of like luxury stuff. I think that some form of life also corrects them itself, especially when it is obvious that no special sums are still received from the court. Well, that's a multitasking thing, isn't it? On the other hand, someone feels insulted and finds, on the contrary, that there is a great deal of money to be paid. I'm complaining to the courts that they are dealing with these actions, but I can't, because I see no reason to refuse them. The other thing is how much resources should be put down there. I agree that at least some of these matters could also be expected to be contributed more by the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U31	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U32	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The judgment of the Supreme Court of 21 June 2019 says: based on the principles of human dignity and equal treatment guaranteed by the Estonian Constitution, the Supreme Court found that the fundamental right of the family protects the right of persons of the same sex to live in Estonia as a family. We know that the Supreme Court has recognised the Cohabitation Act as valid, but its lack of implementing legislation has brought more work to the court and some cases have also reached the Supreme Court. Will the resolution of this legal vacuum in the Riigikogu, either through the adoption of implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act or, for example, by supplementing the Family Act, guarantee the rights of same-sex families, contribute to legal clarity and equal treatment in the country in accordance with the Constitution? The President of the Republic has also rejected the Act on the External Action Service for the same reason. Are the positions of the Supreme Court on this matter still the same as those of the decisions you have made, or have there been any developments here in the meantime? Has the Supreme Court changed its views on this matter in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U33	The General Assembly of the Supreme Court has stated its position and no one else inside the Supreme Court can change it. So far, there have been two or even three such things, and there is also one thing about residence permit in the proceedings before the Supreme Court. It's from the administrative court. What's there to say? There are answers to your question. It is clear that if the legislator regulates this situation on the basis of the existence of the Cohabitation Act and that the Supreme Court's assessment that same-sex couples must be treated equally with others, it is of course necessary to adopt implementing acts. There is no doubt about that. Or if the legislator considers that this is not necessary, the law must be repealed. I have said this in the past two years from this position that clarity on this issue would be necessary for everyone, both inside and outside the judiciary. Of course, this vacuum isn't good.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U34	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U35	[[Remote connection]] Good manager! Dear President of the Supreme Court! My question is about circular defense. I'm going to be specific. The courthouse of Tartu is near you. On the fourth floor is the county court, then below the district, administration, the prosecutor's office. The judges are more or less behind the same air corridor, the class brothers-sisters, the prosecutor's office, and the insolvency administrators. Do you or the Supreme Court have information or information about circular protection that may arise in such an association, specifically in this case in the Tartu County Court, but there are certainly more? How does this really affect justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U36	Here are two questions. It is a question of real influence and seeming influence of justice, isn't it? I believe that the question is rather apparent. At the moment, if we take the most pragmaticly, the judiciary has so much rejuvenated over the last few years that the contacts that may have previously been between lawyers and prosecutors have simply fallen physically, practically perhaps disappeared. It is alleged that the younger judges are very reluctant to have any contact with other professional parties to proceedings. Maybe the question isn't that big. Everyone has to feel this boundary, let's say that. I have now received, for two years or more, disciplinary statements concerning the conduct of various judges. I do not recall any complaints that there had been any suspicion of a judge being involved with a lawyer or a prosecutor's office. Maybe I'm wrong here right now, but I don't remember anyone complaining like that. Right now, it's more of a theoretical thought development. In itself, neither I nor anyone else would mind if these courthouses were built in such a way that the prosecutor's office is elsewhere. The judges would be happy to get over the lack of space. But you see, the problem is that the state is trying to function rationally, to minimise all costs in our budgetary situation. Let's get the Jõgeva courthouse. In fact, we can say that this is a police house where there is a court in one corner. I suggest you visit Jõgeva, where the court is the most marginalised in Estonia. He doesn't stand out at all. I don't think that's right either. Personally, I would also support the option of having separate court houses and large ones, and they would not be with the prosecutor's offices, but right now it is a pure question of money only and nothing else. But I don't think there's really much association that affects justice. It's not there. Such complaints would come out, but they have not really existed. It's more of a theoretical fear. But if someone brings it out, there's gotta be some way to react to it. The judges are generally quite sensitive in this respect, and they reduce themselves quite easily in any connection. Rather, there is a problem, and no one too lightly says that he knows or knows anyone. Is that enough alone? In a small country there are links that have been attended school together or know each other from other places, inevitable, but, of course, in this case, you have to distance yourself from the case. I believe, and I hope, that this will be done most of the time. I'm an optimist about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U37	Kalle Grünthal, please! Kalle, we haven't made contact with you. In the meantime, let's take the second question and try to get back in touch with Kalle. Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U38	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Chairman of the Supreme Court, thank you very much for your excellent overview. At the end of your speech, you mentioned concerns about legal education, and my request to you is to clarify this concern. I ask what you believe is the responsibility of the state for Estonia to have sufficiently well-prepared qualified lawyers for all its professions. I share with you the view that the functioning of the state depends in a great deal on it. Is it primarily a question of insufficient funding for legal education, as I have seen at the University of Tartu, where lawyers have to take up half a million euros of internal loans to cope with it? Or is it also a question of how the state orders lawyers, how they are trained in different universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U39	This is a broad issue for which we will have a separate conference in June, where the Prime Minister has also promised to take part and at least the Minister of Justice. They're all gonna be dealt with. That's what I wanted to say proactively. By the way, we have a meeting tomorrow with lawyers' professional associations, barrister's office, prosecutor's office, Justice Department, Chancellor of Justice, hopefully also notariat, executives, insolvency practitioners. There, then, we will discuss together how to move forward with this issue. But to sum up briefly, yes, the lack of money is one reason that qualified trainers are hard to find. And this lack of money has led to educational standards being lowered, let's say so. Paid education on the road is not a substitute for proper full-time academic education. This leads to quality and, in my opinion, people who are not supposed to reach the diploma will also reach it. They also reach the University of Tartu and more. We do not have such an independent comparative assessment of the quality of education. But lawyers are still needed at a high level in Estonia. Well, even to help you write the law, you need highly qualified people. If they don't exist, if we can just get everything written somehow, then we're gonna be in trouble. We still need academic post-growth at a very high level. But what's the situation now? At the moment, however, it is the case that strong university students are already paid at law firms in the second or third course, in fact, this whole peak is being taken away. From now on, there will be no way for young people to stay at the university, for example. What can the University of Tartu offer a young university graduate to work for? Same salary as at the law firm, pretty much to the secretary. That's the reality. There will be no follow-up, and the current teaching model will simply take us there at some point that, although young people are interested in learning it, we will not be able to provide this training at a level that will ensure that the quality of the lawyers will be sufficiently high in the future. This needs to be dealt with seriously. This concern has been expressed by all these professional associations that this is the case. Of course, it is also part of a large educational picture, but it is just something that stands out among lawyers because it is reflected in the functioning of the whole country.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U40	So, I don't know, let's try again to get in touch with Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U41	Any word?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U42	Yeah, I can hear you now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U43	Thank you. Obviously, there is no dispute that every judge wants to do his job in a quality manner. And apparently there is no dispute over the fact that the courts are overburdened, with hundreds of files in their hands. However, this same level of burden also affects the quality of the hearing, as often in some processes material law rules are simply not complied with and this leads to further appeal. These things are gonna come out eventually. However, the problem is, of course, that the status of judge is a lifetime and nothing happens to him much when these little mistakes come along. Is it possible to put in place any other means of influencing the judge to ensure quality decisions? Do you have any ideas about that? I don't know if it's linked to some kind of financial bonus or something.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U44	It's a complicated subject. On the one hand, I absolutely agree that if a person still has two hundred things to deal with at the same time, it is not possible, purely physically, that all these two hundred things can be solved brilliantly to the details in a few days. This is simply not possible with the current resource. And to make mistakes, you have to accept it to some extent in this situation. It's not that we have to accept it in general, that things can be done too much. No, it's definitely not. If things are going to get a lot longer or consistently resolved in the wrong way, then we have the training of judges where people can be directed. Feedback has also been discussed on how the High Court should give a signal to the lower-ranking judges in any way. Yes, we can ask the question that if the judge is constantly unable to do the work of the judge properly, could that also be the basis for his release? I don't rule it out. There is no such basis in the current law. The mechanism also does not have to send a judge to this could do it again with a knowledge check, if still some period is over and there are very many complaints about him. There is no mechanism. Whether this is in line with the Constitution is once again an issue where the judiciary has dissenting opinions due to the length of its term of office. I wouldn't rule out this option, but right now we're really a little bit of a problem. We have a disciplinary procedure in which people have been punished. If they consistently ignore some established viewpoints, this could be a problem for them. But I believe that this is not mostly done intentionally, consciously, but is still the result of a heavy workload. In a sense, this situation is eased by the fact that the old generation of judges is getting out of the way and coming on top of new young judges with a different understanding. They could theoretically have a better education, while, of course, they have a smaller life experience. I can't tell you when it's gonna be a year when we don't have any more first instance judges appointed in the first round. That time is no longer how far away. It's just coming. But this problem certainly needs to be addressed, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U45	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U46	[[Remote connection]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Thank you for this meaningful and good presentation, which shows a lot of bottlenecks that need to be overcome in the system of courts. But one problem is very serious. As an Eastern virumaan, I can see that now the oil factory was put on trial, in short, on hold. What does that mean? How do you finally consider it possible for democracy to function if the judges take ownership of environmental policy? And it is not just about shutting down the construction of an oil plant, it is also about forestry. Farmers have questions about the goose chase that was shut down in the spring. Farmers are very concerned about this. Goosemen do a lot of damage. Exactly the same thing happened with the halting of the wolf hunt, which was then opened. These are all really environmental issues. And the end result is that if the judge's mind is green, he can also, in a sense, go on how to say, go along with the green mindset and make policy with his decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U47	Well, that's an eternal question about where this line of law and politics goes. First of all, I would like to say that none of these matters will be brought before the Court of Justice of its own motion. Someone's got to complain. Someone's been touched. Someone's feeling his rights are being violated by a project. I really don't know these things. I have also read only in the paper about what you have referred to here, the closure of this plant or the suspension of construction. What exactly is behind it or how serious these arguments are, I'm afraid I can't say. Or you could say, luckily enough, because I can't interfere in any way here. But at the same time, someone has to settle these disputes. If someone still feels affected by some state's decision or other person's behaviour, someone has to settle this dispute. If we say that these are political disputes simply and cannot be settled by a court, it does not comfort the person whose home may be hurt. It is up to the court to consider what public interests are, what they are and whether they outweigh private interests. In environmental law, the best example is Rail Baltic or some kind of factory, no matter who's interests run into it. Or windmills that have been mentioned several times. Whose interests may prevail is the place of weighing each time. And in the case of the state, it is also actually important that it is often seen in the public interest, and that is also right, because we probably need a factory, we need tea, etc., but for people who suffer from it, it cannot be compensated enough. You don't communicate with them. And these people feel that they are being harmed in the public interest and that their interests are not being protected. That's when they come to court. Someone has to solve this. Whether it's right to stop something or not, that's different. The thing about stopping is that if you don't stop, maybe it'll be even harder to turn back. But I really don't know what to say. However, I certainly do not think that the judicial system has taken up some form of policy-making in the field of the environment. I don't want to agree with that. I guess these things just sort of work out. In other parts of the world, it has been the same that virtually almost all major construction projects are still going through court. Then it must be argued and clarified by considering different interests. That the courts are, in any case, directed, as you said, towards green thinking, the results do not show. This is not in itself a bad way of thinking, but it would mean that the state should always or public power should lose. True, stretching things can be a problem. But in the end, these plans and construction and everything else need to be clarified. In that sense, however, I am defending the courts right now. I can't imagine how we could leave these things unsolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U48	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U49	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Your concerns about money and staff and the level of lawyers are perfectly understandable. But I'm actually going to continue with the last question. Because it points to what? This indicates that we do not have the rule of law working exactly as it should. And it does not work because we have very clearly begun judicial activism for ideological reasons. And it is not just about green matters, it is about homosexuality, it is about immigration, it is about the violation of our constitution. We are currently on the agenda with a very clear Constitutional barricade, and we are using this very vague term, the topic of the recovery fund. I am 100% convinced that if we get to the Supreme Court with this, the Supreme Court will say that everything is fine. And he decides this for purely ideological reasons, perhaps also for financial reasons, but certainly for ideological reasons. How do you feel about the fact that we have a very clear solution to the rule of law for ideological reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U50	I do not agree that our rule of law will crumble. After all, the rule of law is that everyone has the same rights and those rights can also be protected in court by anyone, that no one is in any way a priori worse than anyone else. General equal treatment is still necessary. And if you are so convinced that the Supreme Court or any other court will still make a certain decision, then there is no point in fighting at all, is there? You'll know what's coming. I don't know what the Supreme Court decides. At the same time, I understand that this rehabilitation fund thing cannot simply come to the Supreme Court. There's a decision you made here, isn't there? Law control is foreseen as a mechanism, but it is much more difficult for decisions. The fact that the courts are somehow biased, I don't want to agree. Of course, any person may have his or her own worldview, but in the end, the law and the constitution are the ones where the borders are given to us, and we can't get out of there in any way. Of course, it is also a question of interpreting who reads the Constitution, how can it be understood? This also ties in with what I have told you: that I believe that constitutional supervision could be opened up for a peaceful review of court proceedings, in what form and with what kind of involvement it could be in the future. I'm not so pessimistic that we don't have the rule of law, no matter what view we talk about. Again, for me, a good indicator is still complaints that are received and that I receive quite a lot from the judges. Such claims that there would be tilt are almost no. there are some, but mostly there are no complaints from these people. I'd still like to be a little more positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U51	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Court, I quote you yourself. You said that we have built one of Europe's most effective judicial systems. But if you place Estonia in the European context in terms of the number of cases, what are we, the people of Estonia, then? That's one question. And one little short question to the end. You have highlighted a number of bottlenecks in the Estonian judicial system. If you had to choose the two most urgent solutions, what would they be if I asked for two?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U53	In fact, the number of cases was included in this report, but then we decided that we had to cut somewhere, and that sentence was left out. According to this scoreboard, the number of cases in civil and commercial matters in Estonia is at least one of the lowest in Europe. Compared to other countries, we have room for improvement there too. People's awareness and desire to argue are still small in comparison with many other countries. There is still room for improvement, which also raises concerns that this could increase the burden over time. What was the second question? [[There's an answer in the hall.]] Well, today's bottleneck 1 is still an overload, especially at Harju County Court, and the coincidence and inability to solve major criminal cases. These are two bottlenecks. The overall enormous workload of judges at Harju County Court and the stretching of major criminal cases. These are two No 1 issues for me without any doubt. The rest can be dealt with gradually, but the two should be dealt with immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U54	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U55	[[Remote connection]] Thank you very much, manager. Good Villu, first of all, I would like to thank you deeply for a thorough report in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which gave me very many answers to the questions that had bullied me in the past. But now I'm going to go to a question that actually pushes some of your words. First of all, when we are talking about the implementation of the principle of equal treatment in court, it is quite clear how sometimes an idealized and day-to-day approach has taken place in court. This has created a situation in the judicial system where, for example, the court can define the concept of family by applying the provisions of family law when friends are together. It's confusing. Is the resulting increasingly common sense in society that courts have become more and more involved in the creation of law alongside justice changeable? And if it's changeable, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U56	It is again the same subject that the legislator has abandoned the law and that the court must continue to comply with it somehow. There was talk of a court activism, but the court itself has not initiated any of these things. Someone's come to court with them, right? It is not the case that Harju County Court or Tallinn Administrative Court or the Supreme Court would like to resolve these matters themselves, or that there is an extra pleasure in solving them, no matter what they are talking about. There's a particular person behind everything whose argument has to be resolved in some way. If there is a subject where everything is clearly regulated by law, then it must be governed by law. The only option for a judge to miss is to institute constitutional review proceedings for the control of the law. This is the mechanism we have in the Constitution. You can't do this any other way. Yeah, sometimes no one likes any court settlements or interpretations of the law. To be honest, I also do not like many of the interpretations of the courts and not all the positions of the Supreme Court do. You have to write different opinions sometimes, you can't agree with everything. It's human. But if the court has made its decision, it must be accepted. A decision has been taken and a position has been taken, at least for as long as it remains unchanged. But I still don't see that the court has somehow crossed the line in recent years with some interpretation of the law. I understand that this whole cohabitation law thing is upstairs. People have brought these disputes to court, they have been resolved as the Supreme Court has found in the summary and lower courts. Right or wrong, it can be subjectively assessed, but the courts have made their decisions, solutions have come and interpretations have been given. I don't know what else to say about that. But there's no separate desire for a court to be very active in any way, especially in a situation where all things pile up and you're under a huge workload. The courts can't even think about it, they just have to push and pound to get their things ready. I don't think there's any particular ideology back there.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U57	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U58	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I was moved to ask your answer to Mr Sutrop's question, and I would ask for clarification. You have just mentioned the subject of secondary growth, which I am interested in, is that, as a result of the corona crisis, the educational level of our future judges is declining. Is it just a coroner, or is this level of study already, how to say, already consistently declining? Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U59	No, this trend is still longer. This has been consistent and, let's say, this turn or this change has unfortunately started with the abolition of paid education. Right, law enforcement was getting a little hard on it. That's where this trend may have started. It has been amplified by the fact that classical learning methods, such as contact training and examination, have been hampered. Therefore, I dare say, the level of teaching, despite all efforts, is not quite what was before the corona. The students' ability to acquire everything is still not so great on the long road. It is a pity that this has been the case, and this is the case not only in law but also in the whole study, and not only in university, but also in upper secondary school, in primary school, everyone is equally stuck in this problem. There's nothing we can do, we've done our best in this situation, but, yeah, the trend that good faculty don't come along has been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U60	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U61	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President of the Supreme Court. If you will allow me, it seems to be a slightly more philosophical question at the end. You have already talked about the challenges of the Coron, but could you say what you see in this very rapidly changed world, where the information space is quite different than it was a few years ago? What is the greatest challenge facing this traditional judicial system in order to fulfil its mission and adapt to this rapidly changing world?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U62	Well, that's the challenge... Maybe there's two of them. First of all, how to deal with things on the road at the same quality and speed as physical sessions. Let this be a matter of making the facts clear, of evaluating the evidence, of hearing the witnesses. There are a lot of things in remote work that raise questions in certain cases. There are also very conflicting views on how this has been handled and how it should continue in the future. Are we going to such a non-personal trial in the broader sense or not? A written anonymous procedure? I don't think it's a good trend when people are physically pushed out of courthouses, so no one wants to see them, just to solve them on paper. But this trend is visible, right, and the corona has amplified it. And the other thing is how to ensure public participation in the trial. After all, we are in difficulty with the same written procedures, but also with video sessions, to allow this procedure to be informed. There have been projects. I very much support the possibility for us to hold these virtual sessions relatively freely, that it has been carried over online, so that the public can see everything and take part in the hearings. So the question of how to ensure public access so that judicial proceedings are not kept so closed as to leave the courtroom would be another such concern. That's what it looks like to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U63	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U64	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, Mr President. Very Honourable President of the Supreme Court! My question is actually motivated by the last question. Do we have reason to worry, too, that the quality of judgments at a remote hearing may not be exactly what it is about a physical hearing? However, in the case of a physical hearing, contact with the various parties is more immediate, perhaps the discussion is better. Is this concern justified or is there no difference in the quality of judgments as to whether the sessions have been conducted in a remote form or physically present?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U65	It's very difficult to answer in a certain tone. I don't have any numbers here, and there's a lot of conflict of opinion. There are judges who are very pleased with the remote procedure, who do not want to see the parties physically. They say they can get everything done, do the same thing, no problem. There are also those who say that they are very disturbed that they cannot discuss matters with the parties to the proceedings and question the witnesses directly. It also affects the solutions. I mean, there is no difference in the quality of writing a decision when it comes to distance. You're still writing the decision. The question is, whether or not the material on which you are writing the decision has come to your attention well or not. Indeed, there may be a difference in more complex matters in the sense that, first of all, whether we understand to the end what the complainer, for example, wants in civil or administrative matters at all. Maybe if he's at your desk, you can talk to him humanly. But if you're just gonna exchange letters with him to the end, it might not legally fit in that box, and then there's a problem. That's one side that could be bad. And the other is what it's like with evidence, right? There are few witnesses in civil and administrative matters, but in criminal matters, the witness party is very important. Well, there's been a talk, for example, about how we're gonna ensure cross-examination when the witness's on the long road. So how do we deal with him? There have been cases where the witness's talk suddenly breaks down and the comms disappear. After he says I had a bad communication quality, but it's possible that he was talking to someone, wanted to be more specific. What he's saying there is no one can control it. In a sense, it places the quality of the certificate under question mark, whether or not it is a good proof. Which means the material for making decisions can be bad. I believe that, in most cases, it still does not affect the quality of the decision, but in certain cases, when things are more complicated and there is a need to sort things out, yes. And, of course, one moment that is on the long road: it reduces the possibility of reconciling parties, it is also obvious. If you still have them in your eyes, you have a chance to look them in the face, the chance to convince them to accept is definitely greater than the chance of a long-distance journey. Well, that's the way it is right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U66	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U67	[[Remote connection]] Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I thank you very much for this presentation, and I share a great many views on the fact that a number of important decisions have not been taken in the Ministry of Justice over the years. But I want to ask you this. I have been concerned in recent years that I have started to feel that our authorities are very light-handed rather than finding solutions to the problems of different people within the authorities, they tend to send people to court. Lately, our Minister for the Interior has also responded very lightly on several occasions that if you don't like something, you should sue. That is, in my view, a very bad tendency when we start essentially treating people as "poor." On one side there is a State with relatively unlimited resources compared to that applicant, on the other side there is a person. Do you agree? Have you noticed such a tendency?
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U68	I've read about it sometimes, yeah. No, I don't think that's a good tendency. My understanding is that a person should be sought a solution. The whole thinning of the state, the pooling of resources, the limitation of the number of officials who deal with people's complaints, optimising and standardising the work of officials, all the negative aspects associated with information systems are that we try to compartmentalize people into boxes and say that if you don't fit in the box, see how you do it. We don't deal with you, we don't have time or resources for this. This is, in fact, a very bad trend that can ultimately lead to people being alienated from their own country, which I hope none of us want. To say we're not talking to you, we're not discussing with you, go to court, I absolutely don't support that approach. I think there's got to be a point in going to court. We should go to court when it is clear that the positions have not approached. If there is a dispute over some very specific piece of law, where there are differences of opinion, then that's all it's gonna do. Someone has to settle this dispute at the end of the day, but I believe that speaking to people in many cases, communicating with people would help prevent litigation. So, in any case, I support the idea that more work should be done with people before the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U69	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We can go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can take the floor for up to five plus three minutes. First of all, Anti Division, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Dear President of the Supreme Court! The head of the Supreme Court just moments ago stated that there is an eternal question about where the line between politics and justice goes. The reality is that we have already reached an ideological biased trial from politics to a pregnant legal system. And this trend is getting worse. There are things that remain on the minds of politicians, such as the harassment clause, which forces the justice system to deal with someone's affairs. It is good that Martin Hallik, former director of the library of the University of Tartu, was acquitted. However, he had to undertake a Kafka trip in the machinery of the courts. This is an example of how the problems that should be resolved according to good manners are solved with the hard fist of the country. It humiliates the justice system. Inspired by this, the left-wing activists of the Student Association are now building an anonymous application system that must monitor the relationship between university staff and students even outside working hours. Are things okay with equal application of the law? Absolutely not. The first swallows of the age of idealized processes were Mary Kross' case. They tried to shake the election result. But there was no public interest. Somebody's ideological favourites get away because of a lack of public interest, but the young woman of Tartu, who lied after she fell drunk, that she was attacked, could not enjoy this privilege. So, for some people, even false appeals are allowed. One of the characters who rammed the puppy protestors sued the Lens portal, who revealed his actions. I have not noticed that this person has been prosecuted by the prosecutor's office for putting the child in danger. The symbol of today's justice is also a money laundering attorney named Robert Sarv, who scares people with stacks of lawsuit. It must be borne in mind, however, that the judiciary has a responsibility to protect freedom of expression. Behind the action, a willing lawyer may obstruct the courts, but the Supreme Court has the last word in the defence of freedom of expression. And in the wake of such an angler, the court is restricting freedom of expression more and more modestly. Freedom of expression is not freedom of slander. However, the courts have begun to direct the borders of public debate to the narrowest bed. This trend coincides with the dark plan of hate speech law. Today's ugly symbol, but of course the media's favorite is the couple of children. If they hadn't bought a child in the United States, but in Estonia, it would be an offence. This fact does not diminish the hurrahs of the media. The Supreme Court itself should look in the mirror and reflect on its role. One simple piece of advice for starters. The Supreme Court could hold more oral hearings. Listen to the parties, because only paper proceedings will the judges close to the office in silence. This is especially necessary in the case of matters of high public interest. National judges should give more reasons as to why one or the other question cannot be accepted in the cassation procedure. While the Supreme Court deals with the complaints of prisoners, the Supreme Court lacks a broad view of major legal issues, major dilemmas, complex interpretations to which the Supreme Court must have our best qualified judges. The Supreme Court should become more substantive, less formal, in order not to process cassations, but to find the courage to deal with large subjects and to make more precedent-value decisions. I do not see any sign from the Chancellor of Justice that the Supreme Court can, on his initiative, consider the Supreme Court's decision on the European Recovery Facility, despite the fact that the competence of the Riigikogu to impose taxes has been hijacked and the European Union creates a common debt and addiction model, taking a long step towards the Federation. The amendments to the Constitution adopted in 2003 give rise to the principle that the European Union may be a member of the Constitution on the basis of the fundamental principles. It seems that the basic principles are like a rubber band that stretches without limit. The Supreme Court is watching over the hijacking of sovereignty because no one directs the complaint to them. At the same time, the issues of the detainees can and can be dealt with. I predict that the same indifference awaits us when we adopt the censorship code for hate speech. The courts are forced to start political processes by suppressing freedom of expression in the Putin-Russian style. Suffice it to say that some state-paid legitimist is blocking the courts with the newly invented tolerance crimes. Dangerous blog posts are discovered decades ago, quoting the Bible. And the Chancellor of Justice will remain silent. It takes his time to break hair in prisons. And the courts of Estonia will carry out the censorship. In Finland, the prosecution against the former Minister of the Interior and the head of the Christian Democrats Group in the Finnish Parliament, Päivi Räsäsäs, are making waves. One part of the accusation concerned the writing of Räsäse, "He created them to be a man and a woman. Gay relationships challenge the Christian human concept." This should be the alarm clock for Estonia. There are extremist laws in Russia on the basis of which the executive powers decide through the courts, which are extended hands, who are extremists and who are not. A bill was just launched in the State Duma to prevent extremists and their organisations from running for election. However, we have an hate speech law and a media service law coming up, a domestic version of Navalny's muzzle. The state power is plucked to Brussels piece by piece, but the Supreme Court remains silent because it takes time to split hair. And the money is said to be low in the justice system. But maybe there's little courage to see the big picture. Perhaps there is little clarity of thought and perception of legal philosophic issues? The ticking in the comfort zone doesn't provide answers. I would like the Estonian legal order not to allow itself to become partial, a tool of an ideology that undermines the sense of justice. Since the constitutional foundation of the legal system is falling apart, I mostly touched the cracks of the foundation. I would like to say a lot more, including the lack of criminal law experts, the shortage of professors. I would remind you that the memo recently published by Danske Pank found that the Estonian court investigation is completely safe for them. However, a U.S. court investigation poses a threat. Is this evidence of a strong legal order? I call on the courts and the legal scientists to see the changes that are taking place in front of us all and not to consider them inevitable. Otherwise, you will miss the increase in authoritarianism, the attack on fundamental rights, or you will become silent accomplices to the decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U71	Next up, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U72	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U73	I'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U74	Honorable President of the Supreme Court! Honourable members of the National Council! First of all, I support the clear and concrete proposal of the President of the Supreme Court to revise the Constitutional Review Law. I think it is also reasonable to take a step towards creating an independent judicial college of constitutional review with a separate jurisdiction in the Supreme Court. Secondly, from the point of view of procedural economy, it is reasonable to continue with this type of revision of procedural law, which really helps to achieve a more effective and quicker solution. I think that Estonia's constitution is also in line with the fact that there is no universally three-step procedure in all matters. Thirdly, I do not support the understanding or intentions referred to by the President of the Supreme Court on Tuesday in the Constitutional Committee in order to provide for the closure of the courts in the counties. The closure of courthouses certainly cannot be the way to reduce justice in rural areas in the interests of economics. It has been discussed here when the President of the Supreme Court referred to the priorities of whether the legislator can set procedural priorities. Yes, I am convinced that it can and in many cases must set priorities. When we talk about penal law, be it, for example, a particularly large-scale white-collar corruption crime, or be it cases or crimes in criminal proceedings, where, for example, the child is the victim and where it is appropriate to reach a solution without stretching for the sake of restoring legal peace and for the sake of alleviating suffering. That is certainly a national logic. It must be acknowledged that in procedures where there are long complex processes that run for years and where society as a whole is waiting for a solution, priority is given to maintaining the trust of society as a whole. However, in a number of cases, these matters are dealt with as usual, using the available procedural resources also in the sittings. I say clearly and rigidly: this cannot be the case. There was Bernie Madoff who remembers, she left us a while ago. But in the Madoff case, a few months after he was captured by the FBI, the decision of the first-degree New York City Court was actually made. That's what I've always said, for example. Now, from the cut-off economy. I mean, it's a broader policy that you're trying to predict, like there's some kind of cost savings going on. But I have information. And the information says it's an optical con. The volume of the state budget for this year is excluded from the additional budgets, which are exceptional and are linked to the exclusion of the corona virus and the mitigation of economic losses in terms of total costs, i.e. 12667151 euros. So, next year's budget volume is the new government's planned attention! EUR 13175963. You can see that the numbers are actually increasing here. There's no cut-off talk we're talking about. This is simply a fucked-up mess that is currently being created in some important areas of state life and we also saw and heard it when the President of the Supreme Court spoke of his concerns. If this is said, but where are the cuts of the Supreme Court going, where are the national defence cuts going, and when people talk about whether the state is collapsing, the answer is very simple. Next year, it is planned that the government plans to build the largest log building in Europe, according to experts, in the Ministry of the Environment as a priority. EUR 10 million is the budget allocation for next year. This is where the savings actually have to be achieved. Mr. Minister for Enterprise visited KredEx and explained in the Special Committee on State Budget Control that EUR 300 million could be used as financial resources. The decision to take with this money has not been made. No decision has been made, EUR 300 million! There is no point in creating an idea of saving here. This type of business is not sustainable government administration; it is not an audit, the state budget review that is needed, of course, the state's expenditure must be controlled, but it is, in fact, plucking. This is an incomprehensible hustling in the midst of a corona virus crisis, in the midst of an economic crisis, where we need precisely stability. Stability, predictability and sound government management. Such hustling cannot be considered as a purposeful activity in the responsible management of public finances, in a situation where, I would point out, the budget for 2022 is planned to grow by nearly half a billion euros. So, in conclusion, which is also a concern that Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Court pointed out: legal education. There is no point in putting all responsibility on free education in Estonian. There is no such step. What really matters? What matters is the simplest thing. Law science is an applied science; it does not exist as an autonomous society for which it is engaged in the development of scientific thought. Law, in addition to being an applied science, is actually realised in specific circumstances and is a national science. Consequently, the solution that must be: when university operating grant agreements are concluded, provision should be made for a separate grant transfer from the state budget, in addition to other humanities as national sciences, to be allocated to legal sciences. It is the responsibility of the Minister for Education and Research, and I hope that the legal public will understand this problem and express their support for this solution. In summary, I want to congratulate the President of the Supreme Court for publishing a balanced and mature opinion. The court must behave independently and not be subjected to political pressure. The best example was overwhelmingly political pressures, threats, different economic interests, which actually put pressure on the Supreme Court in the case of the pension reform decision, but the Supreme Court was a constitutional, honest court, a court serving the Republic of Estonia. He did not allow himself to be shaken under out-of-court circumstances and made the decision constitutionally, as required by the oath of office of the judges of state. That's how you do things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2021-05-20_U75	Thank you. There is no more negotiation request. The item has been exhausted and today's agenda has also been examined. The sitting is adjourned.
